 In the same way that our genomes influence traits like eye color, hair color, or susceptibility to cancer even, they can also influence our ability to metabolize drugs. Like alcohol. A drug is defined as any chemical that when introduced into the body, can influence biological processes. This includes things like alcohol, even caffeine. Now, we have a very special experiment set up for all you Udacious students out there today. This is Lauren, you know Lauren. And this is Jennie. Hi, I'm Jennie. And they're going to represent how two people with two different genomes can metabolize a drug differently. A drug like alcohol. Now, they're about the same height. They're about the same size. And we might expect them to have the same tolerance. But let's see what happens when they finish their drinks. Cheers. Cheers. [MUSIC] Alright, Lauren and Jenny happen to be above the age of 21, which is the legal drinking limit in the United States. Neither of them drove to work today. And because they're responsible with alcohol, they actually didn't finish their drinks. So, let's see. How do you feel ladies? I feel okay. And what about you, Jenny? I feel amazing. You do? I do. You look a little you look a little red to me. Yeah, it's a little warm in here, isn't it? not really. I can see in your cheeks, though, you've got some you've got some redness there. Hm. Does that normally happen when you drink. Yes. that's what we call alcohol flush reaction, sort of that, that redness in your cheeks that, that I see there. Yeah, and I see a little bit on your chest as well. Hm. Yeah. And so that normally happens when you drink, huh? Yes it does. does it run in your family? Well my dad actually is allergic to alcohol and gets hives. Oh my gosh. Well the alcohol flush reaction is known to be prevalent in those of an Asian background. So, I'd like to know from you, do you have the alcohol flush reaction? Okay kids, here is the concept map for lesson ten. It's a bit simpler than the other maps that we've seen in some of the other lessons, but there's still plenty of blanks to keep you thinking. Remember to take notes and fill it out as we go along and you'll get a completed version at the end of the lesson. And mutation causing enhanced ADH activity, would result in a person feeling less intoxicated. Remember, ethanol is the actual substance that makes you feel intoxicated. If ADH works really efficiently, then it metabolized ethanol pretty quickly to acetaldehyde. That means we're removing ethanol from your system so you won't feel as intoxicated by it. If we reduced ADH activity. Then we'd have a buildup of ethanol and then that would increase our intoxication effects. So we just established that alcohol was a drug that can build up in the body, and exert intoxicating effects, but how does it do this? Well, alcohol has specific targets, for example the neurotransmitter GABA receptors, are really important in the brain and central nervous system. Alcohol can physically bind to the GABA receptor and enhance its function in signaling inside the cell. This is referred to as pharmacodynamics, what a drug does to a body. The direct targets, the target effects of the drug. The physical binding of alcohol to the GABA receptor. Activates this neurotransmitter pathway, which results in relaxation, and slower reaction times. So based on this information, which of the following mutations of the GABA receptor do you think would result in a pharmacodynamic change were the person would experience increased relaxation and slower reaction times? Go ahead and pick which answer you think is best. A mutation causing GABA to bind alcohol more efficiently, would lead to even more activity of the GABA receptor pathway and thus even greater delays in reaction times and an increase in relaxation. If we prevented GABA from binding alcohol at all, then we wouldn't get any GABA activity and so we wouldn't see these effects. The intoxicating effects of alcohol are a combination of the genes that influence pharmacokinetics, or the metabolism of. And the pharmacodynamics, the target effects of alcohol. Although, alcohol dehydrogenase is important in the first step of alcohol metabolism. The second step, the conversion of acetaldehyde to acetic acid by the enzyme acetaldehyde dehydrogenase two, is actually the slowest step. As the ethanol is broken down by ADH into acetaldehyde, more and more of the acetaldehyde saturates the ALDH2 enzyme. It gets busy. Its trying to actually metabolize all of this acetaldehyde that's building up. But now, it's saturated. And the bad news is that acetaldehyde is about ten to 30 times more toxic than alcohol. Alcohol is intoxicating, and has the effects we've talked about so far. But it can also be bad for your body, if you have too much of it. But acetaldehyde is the really bad stuff. In fact, the effects of alcohol flush reaction are due significantly to the build-up of acetaldehyde rather than any build-up in alcohol. So let's say you had reduced activity of ALDH2. Would you expect your alcohol flush reaction to be more severe or less severe? Reduced activity of ALDH2 would lead to a buildup of acetaldehyde. And this would result in a more severe alcohol flush reaction than just normal activity of ALDH2. We'd have to increase our activity of ALDH2 to see a less severe reaction. So ALDH2 is the main regulator of the alcohol flush reaction. Let's learn a bit more about how its turned from gene into protein. The ALDH2 gene is located on chromosome 12 on the human genome. Chromosome 12 has about 143 million base pairs and ALDH2 is about three quarters down the length of the chromosome. The gene itself has 13 exons, spanning over 40,000 base pairs of DNA. After transcription and splicing, the mRNA has 1554 nucleotides of coding region between the start and stop codons. And after translation, there's a protein with 517 amino acids. There's one allele of ALDH2 that's known to associate with a severe alcohol flush reaction and it's shown right here. What I want you to do is use the genetic code that we learned about in lesson three and that you can find in the instructors notes on this page. To determine the expected amino acid change in the sequence, and then select the type of mutation that best describes the A allele from the list below. Remember, if you have trouble answering this, you should probably review some material from lesson six. So using the genetic code, we see that this mutation is best represented as a missense mutation. And the reason is because we change from a Glutamate codon, to a Lysine codon. The change in amino acid, is best described as a missense. The G1510A guanine to adenine mutation, which causes a glutamate to lysine change in amino acid, which drastically reduces the activity of the ALDH2 enzyme, catalyzing this second step. Because the ALDH2 enzyme is less active, it becomes saturated much sooner than normal, and there's a build up of acetaldehyde. And the exhibition of symptoms of alcohol flush reaction. Based on the nature of the phenotype caused by this mutation, do you think that it would be dominant or recessive? This allele would be dominant, because you only need one copy of it to start noticing an affect. Even if just some of your ALDH2 enzymes have reduced activity, that's going to lead to buildup of acetaldehyde, which causes the phenotype of alcohol flush reaction. So even a little bit of buildup is going to show us a phenotype that's dominant. So lets ask the next logical questoin, pulling back on information we learned about in lesson 8. Would you expect the A allele of the ALDH2 that reduces its activity by about 50% to be a loss of fucntion, a gain of fucntion, or a no change in function allele? This would be considered a loss of function allele. Because the ALDH2 is still able to perform its function, but it has a much lower activity level. So because it's lost some of its normal function we call it a loss of function. So in these first two steps of the alcohol metabolism pathway, we've essentially learned that this, intermediate acetaldehyde, is what causes the alcohol flush reaction. The ethanol itself mainly causes the intoxication. And it turns out the acetic acid is just largely a harmless metabolite. So knowing that an accumulation of acetaldehyde can actually cause alcohol flush, which scenario would result in the most severe alcohol flush reaction? Take a look at each answer individually. Notice how it's different. They each change the ADH or the ALDH2 enzymes. Look carefully each option, and notice that they change with regards to the activity level of the enzymes. Reduced activity, or an enhanced activity. Go ahead and pick which answer you think is best? I hope you didn't get tripped up by this question. The answer is a fast ADH and a slow ALDH2. Think about it. A fast ADH means we're going to go right from ethanol to acetaldehyde. We're going to have a quick buildup of acetaldehyde. I'm going to slow ALDH2 or reduced activity ALDH2, means that we're going to be really slow at moving from acetaldehyde to acetic acid. So it's going to be the biggest buildup here. Now the opposite of that, a slow ADH and a fast ALDH2 would actually minimize the acetaldehyde intermediate and have the least severe alcohol flush. Whereas having a fast ADH and a fast ALDH2 or having both enzymes have a reduced activity would be somewhere in the middle. Around 80% of all Asians have an allele of ADH that increases the activity 40 to a 100 times that above normal. And about 50% of all Asians have an allele of ALDH2 that slows its activity significantly. And this all results in an accumulation of the toxic product, acetaldehyde and prevalence of the alcohol flush reaction in Asian populations. The increase in acetaldehyde base side effects is so prevalent that it makes the drinking of alcohol far less enjoyable than many other populations find it to be. As a result alcoholism rates are actually much lower in Asian populations where we have a high prevalence of the alcohol flush reactions. Based on this mechanism of action, a drug's been developed called Disulfiram. That is used to treat alcoholism, by inducing the negative side effects of drinking. Namely, the sickness reaction that happens in alcohol flush. So if Disulfiram inhibits one of these proteins. Do you think it's most like to inhibit ADH or ALDH2? Pick one of those answers and tell me why in the text box here. The accumulation of acid. How the height occurs because of reduced activity from ALDH2. And if we use a drug like disulfiram to inhibit ALDH2 we can accomplish these effects artificially. The accumulation of the toxic by-product acetaldehyde in the effects of sickness and alcohol flush. Now if we were to inhibit the alcohol dehydrogenates or the ADH instead, we'd end up with more alcohol, and that would lead to increased intoxication. Now that you've learned a little bit about ALDH2, let's see if we can put this information together with some of the concepts about ancestry and inheritance, that have shown up in previous lessons. Meet Dave, a fictional character with an East Asian background. This is a pedigree of Dave and his family For the trait of Alcohol Flush Reaction. Now, you can see in this pedigree, Dave has an affected mother, uncle, maternal grandparents, lots of extended family that are affected. Now, for this pedigree, the a allele for ALDH2 is dominant, and that's what leads to the alcohol flush reaction. The G allele, is recessive where we don't see alcohol flush. Now a dominant loss of function allele, means that, heterozygous individuals will actually be affected. But the homozygous phenotype, is even more severe. In fact, its so severe that some individuals avoid drinking altogether because they feel so sick. So if Dave's mother is homozygous for the A allele. Then how may of her children will exhibit at least some alcohol flush reaction? There are three children total. Do you think it would be none of the children? 1, 2, 3, or all of the children? If Dave's mother is homozygous for the dominant allele, then she has to pass at least one copy on to each child. Therefore, all three children will be heterozygous, and show at least some level of alcohol flush reaction. I'm Jennie Kim. I'm of Korean descent. And I experience alcohol flush reaction. Well, for those of us, like me, who have not experienced the alcohol flush reaction. Can you describe it for us? Basically, I get really warm. And I turn bright red whenever I drink alcohol. I see. do you. Is it associated with any feelings of being sick? I get a little bit queasy. I don't tolerate alcohol very well. And I really can't drink more than a couple of drinks at a time. I see, so your tolerance then is maybe a little bit lower than other people of your same height and size. Exactly. Now is this something that's common in your family? It is. my dad also experienced alcohol flush reaction, and he. Really doesn't drink, as a result. Now, when did you first realize that you had this kind of alcohol flush? It's kind of a funny story. my mom was looking through my Facebook party pictures, back when I was in college. And one day, she just sort of asked, she was looking through them. Looked up at me and said, why are you so sunburned in all your pictures? [LAUGH]. And that's when I realized something was up. Yeah. My mom didn't, didn't understand. Because she herself does not have alcohol flush reaction. I see. Now, does this mean that you have any personal genetic information about your, yourself or your family for this particular trait? Yes. We've all We've all used 23andMe. You have, and what was your report for the ALDH2, the aldahyde dehydrogenase enzyme. If I can remember correctly my father and I only have one working copy of that gene. I see. So you're heterozygous? Yes. So, wow that means you, well we don't know who you inherited it from unless we know, is your mom. You said you mom does not have this? I see, so you know that you inherited this from your dad. Definitely from my dad, yeah. Wow. How does that make you feel? I don't know, just [LAUGH] Empathetic I guess, for my dad. [LAUGH] [LAUGH] do you consider this I guess a good or a bad trait at all? Or a positive or a negative thing? Well it's funny that you ask that, you know? I think if you'd asked me this in col, back in college, I would have said it's definitely a negative thing. I wish I didn't have it Then I could, you know, have champagne all the time and it would be awesome. But now I'm actually pretty grateful for it. First of all, it's good I think that it helps me be more aware of the impact alcohol has on my body. Mm-hm. Which is generally a good thing for my health and well-being. and second I actually kind of like, or at least appreciate strangely enough how that this reaction is somewhat socially embarrassing and awkward. I actually appreciate feeling bad about myself sometimes. Because that's why I'm funny. And you raise an interesting point there. You know, as someone who experiences alcohol flush reaction. And let's say someone watching this class maybe is only just discovering this for themselves. Is it an embarrassing feeling or do like people ever like, make fun of you for it or? Well you know I think back when I started noticing it, I was much more self-conscious. I like to think though that really that people are too self-involved to really notice other people. At least I am. [LAUGH] So I, you know, I, I've become a lot more comfortable with that. And I also just don't care as much. Yeah, so obviously the disadvantages of alcohol flush reaction are that you can feel kind of bad, you don't have that high of a tolerance, and there may be some kind of awkward social stuff occasionally. Are there any advantages besides the ones you mentioned about, you know being more self-aware about yourself, is there any kind of other advantage to? I actually like the fact that it moderates. It forces me to moderate my drinking. And be pretty judicious about drinking. I always have to ask myself, like, is this cocktail really worth it? I have a saying that I can either be drinking or I can be cute. But I can't be both at the same time. [LAUGH] So I'll often just choose to be cute. And you know just choose not to participate in alcohol at all. and as I'm getting older, I kind of appreciate that more to have that choice. And I feel better, you know, in the mornings than maybe some of my other friends would. What about any kind of medication? You know, for lactose intolerance and people who actually, whose bodies don't metabolize lactose very easily, they can actually take a bio-active form. Of lactase, which allows them to digest dairy products. Is there anything like that for alcohol flush reaction that you know of? There's kind of this over the counter remedy that a lot of my Asian peers and I have discovered. It's just an over the counter antacid or acid reducing pill which I used to call the anti-Asian pill. and I used to take that when I drank. But, later I found out that research shows that it actually isn't good for you to suppress your bodies symptoms as it processes this toxin. so I stopped taking it. One single letter variation can be the sole difference, from two people consuming the same amount of alcohol. The same input, but only one person shows the alcohol flush reaction, while the other person doesn't. We have the same input, but a different output. And all due to a difference in the genetic code. In theory, this phenomenon exists for virtually any drug that humans interact with not just alcohol. While pharmacology is defined as the science of drug, that deals with their composition uses and effects. Pharmacogenomics is the study of how a person's genome affects the way they respond to drugs. The goal of pharmacogenomics is to learn ahead of time, what the best drug, or the best does of a drug would be for a person. To better catalog new information that is uncovered all the time. The pharmacogenomics knowledge base or pharmGKB was founded and created as an interactive tool for researchers to investigate how genetic variation affects drug response. Both with regards to pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics. Simply type in the name of a gene that affects the pharmacokinetic or dynamic effect of a drug. And pull up the entry describing what is known about it. Here you can see right here, the very allele that we just learned about. Position 1510 of the coding region that changed from guanine to adenine. We can even see the SNV varient with the SNV ID, rs671. And we can click on that variant and see exactly what the change is. Glutamate to Lysine. We can even use PharmGKB to search for drugs. We should have a lot more information for us about the drug and its affects on the body. As well as all the alleles that affect its pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics. We'll learn more about Warfarin later in the lesson. My name is Russ Altman, I am on the faculty at Stanford in a number of departments, including Bio-engineering and Genetics. they pay me, and then I have an appointment in medicine and in computer science and I live nearby at Stanford, from New York originally. That's great. And you are one of the creators, the creator, I guess of Pharmgkb. It's a team. It's a team. I wrote the original proposal and have continued to be the principal investigator. It's now in its 13th year. We started back in 2000. Great, and so for somebody who's just seen Pharmgkb for the first time, what is it all about? So, we are totally excited about the how genetics can influence your drug response. And, back in 2000 the NIH and others realized there needed to be a centralized repository to gather all that information together. So, the mission of Pharmgkb, simply put, is to understand all human genetic variation that, that impacts drug response and to catalog it to make it available to researchers, and eventually practitioners. So that they can use it in their work. And it's a one stop shop for the genetic influences on drug response. That sounds like a mountain of information. We have, we do, we do this in two ways. We have human curators who are experts in pharmacogenomics. And they read the literature literally every week as the journals come out. They scan them looking for genes and drugs. And their relationships being discussed. And then put them on a queue for human curation. This has become difficult, and so the second effort in the lab are software tools to do this. So we do a lot of natural language processing, data mining and stuff like that, to try to help put good articles in front of the curators so that they can be more efficient. We do still want humans in the loop, because this is sufficiently tricky and the end goal being it might actually affect patients. So we're not ready to close the loop and just have computers doing it all. So there's always a human in the loop so far. Well, who's the intended audience for this? Is this sort of opened up mainly to clinicians or science people or anyone? It's a great question, and that has evolved. For the first five, seven years of the database. It was specifically just for pharmacogenetic researchers. To let them know what was known and what was not known. Really, so that it could pick the problems to work on. And not reinvent a wheel, or be unaware of some important discoveries that have been made. With the success of the field, however, it has become, increasingly apparent that some of this stuff is ready to roll out in clinical practice. And so, we are now, involved in consortia. Where we're actually writing clinical practice guidelines for, clinicians, to actually use pharmacogenomics in practice. And, and that's probably where we'll stop. We'll probably go all the way from the raw data. Mm hm. all the way up to the clinical advice that you would give to a physician who's making a decision about drug prescribing. Wow. And that's really exciting because that's how you actually impact patients. And that's why we do this. We do this because we all believed that the genome was going to be important for health. And your response to drugs turns out to be one of the key, early uses of the genome that we'll be able to benefit patients with. So if you were an individual, just a layperson, who had personal genetic information about, let's say, a gene that affects the metabolism of a certain drug, you could take your variation and go Pharmgkb, and what would you find out? So, at Pharmgkb you would find a couple of things. You would find the entire literature on that drug gene pair. indexed as to how good was the study, not how good was the study, but how big was the study? How compelling were the statistics when they did the analysis? And you'll find all the individual papers, but what you'll also find is products that our team has created to kind of integrate that data. So these clinical guidelines are one thing that you may find. these require a lot of evidence, so there is not as many of them as there are things for weaker evidence. There's about 12 of them. Where we can really put down clinical advice, Mm-hmm. But our, our curators also put together pathways of drug response to show what's happening in the liver or what's happening in the effector cells. That are affected by all of these genetic variations, they also write summaries. This gene is important because and they actually publish these summaries so that somebody who wants to learn about a particularly important gene. Mm-hmm. So a, a patient unless they have scientific background would not find too much. A physician would find those clinical guidelines and the supporting evidence. And a researcher would find, well, a candy land of the raw, the raw published literature and then what we hope are very useful summaries of it to help them think about what the next research questions should be. Yeah. It sounds like, a great, amalgamation of the information that exists, but in a centralized place. We call it a knowledge pyramid. We, in fact, if you look at the site, Pharmgkb.org. Please visit it. pharmgkb.org has this knowledge pyramid where we have the raw data that's published in the literature. And then we have aggregations of it. And then we have filtering of it, and then we have the clinical advice that we give to doctors. And that's really how it works, you have all this research that eventually Impacts patients. Do you keep of how many entries you have? Like, how many drug, genetic variation responses? Absolutely. So I do annual reports for the NIH. Okay. And so over the le-, years, we have totally instrumented the site. We know how many hits every page gets. Wow. We know the most popular pathways that people look at. The most popular genes. Name one. so people love codeine. And people [CROSSTALK] Don't they, don't they though. Exactly, it's a pain reliever. People are very interested in Warfarin. For the pathways, those are the ones they like, for the genes, they like some of the genes that are involved, there's a gene called cyp2d6, terrible name, cytochrome p4502d6, which is very important for hundreds of drugs. And that's one of our top hits. What other resources would you recommend? I mean, is, is, do you want Pharmgkb to sort of be the one stop shop or are there other useful resources that you would recommend to people sort of in conjunction with this? Absolutely. So couple things. we have this tab based display format right now. One of the tabs is Other Resources. And it's very important because what we can do is since we know the drug or the gene that the user is currently looking at. We can have super specific links to other information sources about those drugs, about those genes, about the diseases that they treat. And so we have those links and we are always looking for more links. because this is the beauty of the world wide web, is you can make these connections. In addition to that, sometimes a data source is so valuable that we, with the permission of the people who are creating it, bring it into the Pharmgkb so we can more tightly integrate that data with our data Mm-hm. So there's kind of two phases of the relationship, the, we'll definitely link to you phase, and then the, we love you so much that if it's okay with you, we'd like to bring you in and make you part of our interface, part of the way we represent information. And these include Basic biological databases like GenBank, which holds DNA sequence. There's a very valuable drug resource called Drug Bank, which we link to. There are the DB Gap, which holds G-WOSS studies, and a long list of other links that you would find on this site. Just as we learned very early in this course, I think in lesson three, structure is function. Not only for proteins in our cells, but also in the world of pharmacology. Remember that drugs bind to proteins in your cells and in your body. And if a protein has even a slight change in its conformation or structure, it will likely change its ability to interact with the drug, or the speed with which it can interact with the drug. Structural variation in pharmacodynamic proteins affects the target effects of the drug. For example, the drug here in red binds the receptor here in this Y-shaped conformation. When it binds, there's a normal activity that happens, a target effect if you will. But if we have a variation in the structure of this receptor, now the drug can't bind to it in the same way, so the activity turns out to be reduced. A genetic variation that altered the structure of the protein resulted in a functional change for the drug. Structural variation in pharmacokinetic proteins affects the speed with which a drug is metabolized, or broken down. In this case the drug is in red, being metabolized by the purple protein, into these two smaller metabolites. This would be our normal drug metabolism. But we could have a variant over here that changed the structure of the enzyme that breaks down the drug. And now, there's a reduced activity or no drug metabolism at all. Let's see if you can pull in the information we've learned about up to this point in the lesson. What do you think would result from a structural change of the GABA receptor, causing an increase in the pharmacodynamic efficiency to bind alcohol? And a structural change of alcohol dehydrogenase, or ADH, causing a decrease in pharmacokinetic efficiency of alcohol metabolism? Would you expect extreme intoxication, moderate intoxication, or minimal intoxication? Remember, this time we're combining what we know about the pharmacodynamic, and the pharmacokinetic pathways, at one time, to see the overall effect of the drug on your whole system, or your body. We would expect this to have the most extreme intoxicating result. Now why is that? Well if we increase the efficiency of GABA to bind alcohol, that actually enhances the neurotransmitter pathway causing more relaxation, even more reduced reaction times. The feelings of intoxication, caused by alcohol presence. If we add to that the decreased metabolism of alcohol. Because the alcohol de-hydrogenates. Has a much reduced activity. Then we have even more alcohol around to bind the more efficient GABA. That's why we'd have extreme intoxication. Understanding which alleles influence certain drug reactions has implications far bigger than just alcohol metabolism. We're at the edge of a revolution that's about to change medicine and make it more personalized than it's ever been before. Imagine taking drugs whose structure and dosing is tailored specifically to your genotype. Now in this world of designer drugs there are two main criteria we need to consider with regards to the pharmacokinetic an pharmacodynamic properties. The first is efficacy, or the drugs ability to achieve a desired effect. The second, is toxicity, or the degree to which a drug causes a toxic or unwanted side effect. So if we focus carefully and we consider both of these factors we should be able to tailor a drug to maximize efficacy and minimize toxicity. You mentioned that one of the most popular hits of things that people are interested in are the Warfarin pathways. Yes. Now why, why is that? So, Warfarin is pretty much the most advanced case of pharmocogenetics that has been studied. Why do I say that? Warfarin has more than one drug that impacts its response. And we actually know what a lot of those, more than one gene. I'm sorry. Warfarin has more than one gene that's important for understanding its response. And we actually know what a lot of those genes are, and how to combine the information from more than one gene. That's, that's a frontier. There are many genes drugs for which we know there are several genes. But, we don't know how to combine the information yet. We do for for Warfarin, so that's the first thing. The second thing about Warfarin is that we also know some of the environmental variables that effect Warfarin response. How much green leafy vegetables you're eating? what your height and weight is? What other drugs you're on? That all combines to have Warfarin be the single best drug that we have for predicting response based on the combination of genetics and environmental factors. The other thing that I should have actually mentioned right off the bat is there are something between 30 and 50 million Americans alone on this drug. And probably obviously twice that, or more Internationally. So we're talking a hundred million people on this drug. There are new drugs coming out that are hoping to knock it off as the leader. bBt today Warfarin is still an incredibly important drug worldwide and so accurate dosing, especially for a dangerous drug like Warfarin. As you may know, Warfarin is anti-coagulant and it makes it harder to clot your blood. That's good if you've had a heart attack, it's good if you've had a stroke. It's good if you've had a clot in your lung or in your legs. But if you have too much of it, it can kill you with internal spontaneous hemorrhage. So there's this very narrow range, we have to get it right, and that's where the genetics can help. Right, it sounds like blood clotting is obviously important when we cut ourselves and we're bleeding. But you know if it's blocking our hearts that's not so good. Not so good. Well you mentioned that there are so many people on Warfarin. the variation in the human genome that exists on the PharmGKB side for example, does it sort of separate? Is it able to document the pharmaco-kinetic and the pharmaco-dynamic pathways separately? Does it combine them, how do you how do you present that information? Yeah so we, those are two separate. Good for you for knowing about this. And, and good for your class. in the case of Warfarin, there are both pharmaco-kinetic and pharmaco determinants to the response. And there are genetic variations on the pharmaco-kinetic side that change the rate at which it's metabolized. And one of the most important genes is called CYP2C9. there's another one called a CYP4F2, but 2C9 to take as an example. It's well known that if you're going to metabolize Warfarin more slowly, you're going to need less of it. And, and if you take the normal dose when you're a slow metabolizer, you're going to wind up with effectively an overdose, and too much bleeding. There on the pharmaco-dynamic side, there's a gene, again with a terrible name. It's called VKORC1 or Vitamin K Oxoreductase Component one, which is actually the target. It's, it's the, it's the protein which the drug Warfarin binds to to inhibit clotting. And there are some variations. Both inside this gene, but also in the control regions of the gene. That it controls it's expression, that markedly changes it's levels. And there are some variations that are very important for determining Warfarin does in that. So, it's a great story, because there's this one PD gene that seems dominant, this one PK gene that seems dominant. Together you can come darn close to predicting what the right dose will be for, for an individual patient. Even without needing to see them clinically first? That's right. You, it, it does, you do best if you have their age, because there are some age effects and gender. There's some sex effects the genetics. and then, ethnicity. You would hope that ethnicity would drop out, because you would hope that once we have the genetic measurements. Who cares what your ancestry is? But I must say that our ability to predict those for African-descent people is still not as good and so in our lab, we're working very hard. The hypothesis would be that there are additional genetic variations seen in that population that have not been studied yet. That, with knowledge of those, we'll be able to get our level of prediction for, African descent people to be as good as where we are now for European and Asian descent. Thank you so much for chatting with us. Alright. It's my pleasure. Thanks for doing this. Yeah, of course. Warfarin. Warfarin is an anticoagulant that acts by binding and inhibiting a protein called VKORC1. Now VKORC1 normally helps recycle vitamin K. It takes it from its epoxidized form. To its reduced form. Now it may not sound like much, it's still vitamin K. There is a chemical change going on here, but that's a huge difference in allowing a certain kind of vitamin K to promote blood clotting. VKORC1 recycles this vitamin K and promotes the production of a reduced vitamin K that promotes blood clotting. Now, warfarin's an anti-coagulant, or something that inhibits blood clotting. Because it actually blocks the activity of VKORC1. If you block VKORC1, then you can't get the epoxidized form of vitamin k back to the reduced form. So you don't get as much blood clotting. You inhibited blood clotting. Now, most of us realize that blood clotting in a good thing. Especially when you hurt yourself. When you get an injury on your skin, and your, your blood starts spilling out, you want it to stop spilling out, so it clots, and that's a good thing. But sometimes blood clotting can happen inside your blood vessels, inside your arteries. And anytime that happens it could be really bad, because we're going to block the flow of blood in your body. So if you have an overactive blood clotting system, you might be at more risk of blocking vessels. And if you have an under-active blood clotting system, you may not have enough clotting when you need it when you get injured. Now the efficacy of Warfarin, or its effectiveness, is measured by how well it inhibits this overall vitamin K recycling. A measure of how effective it is at inhibiting VKORC1. So which of the following would result in an increase or higher efficacy of warfarin? Strong inhibition of VKORC1 or weak inhibition? A strong inhibition of VKORC1 by Warfarin would result in less vitamin K recycling and less clotting, plus a better efficacy based on how we've defined it here. Having a high efficacy will be important, if we need to use Warfarin to stop blood clotting from happening inside the body. VKORC1 is really important in the pharmacodynamic processes of Warfarin. So let's learn a bit more about how we go from gene to protein. VKORC1 can be found on chromosome 16 of the human genome. Chromosome 16 is about 90 million base pairs long. And the VKORC1 gene can be found about 1 3rd of the way down the chromosome. The gene itself contains three exons spanning more that 4,000 base pairs of DNA. After transcription and splicing, the resulting mRNA has 492 nucleotides of coding region between the start and stop codons. And after translation, you end with the protein with 163 amino acids. Now there is one allele of the VKRC1 gene that's associated with enhanced warfarin efficacy but the mutation isn't in the coding region of VKRC1. It's in the non-coding region. About 1600 base pairs in front of the start of transcription. So based on what you know about saturation, if the mutant allele increases warfarin efficacy What do you think the net effect of that mutant allele is on VKRC1 transcription? Do you think it increased the transcription or decreased the transcription? Remember that Warfarin binds and inhibits VKORC1 which normally promotes blood clotting. Less VKORC1 means enhanced warfarin efficacy, because there would be a greater warfarin to VKORC1 ratio. Or less VKORC1, which means less vitamin K, which means less blood clotting or coagulation. So the actual allele is minus 1639T. Or rs9923231. And this has the net effect of reducing VKORC1 transcription. Resulting in less protein. The saturation of Warfarin happens sooner, increasing Warfarin's overall efficacy. This means that if you have the C allele of VKORC1 that has more transcription, then we need a higher dose of Warfarin because we have more VKORC1. If we want to see an affect on blood clotting we're going to have to up our dose. But, if you have the T allele, you have less VKORC1 overall, so you need less Warfarin to actually inhibit or saturate the VKORC1 protein. Plus, to make sure we don't block too much blood clotting we might want to give a lower dose. Achieving the right dose is important. You want enough Warfarin to be effective, to stop blood clotting in your vessels, but not so much that there are negative side effects where you just bleed or hemorrage internally. Hi, my name is Franklin Kalk. I'm 60 years old. I live in Austin, Texas. I took Warfarin for six months, about three years ago. I had a blood clot probably due to heavy travel. There were no other complicating symptoms or at least that was what we surmised at the time. Now when you say you had a blood clot that, you know, to anyone who hasn't had a blood clot before that sounds kind of serious. Is that serious? It is, and it was kind of an interesting I mean I'll tell you the long version, right? it started out, I in retrospect, probably for several months, Mm-hm. I had some developing issues, but didn't really know it at the time. Mm-hm. But looking back after, after I discovered it it became pretty clear that I had, you know, had had these these symptoms. You know, I didn't really know anything about blood clots. I have to say, I wasn't educated about them at all. I, I'm a little better educated now, of course, but at the time, I really didn't know anything. once the pain moved from my calf to my groin, I kind of, you know, figured out. Oh, wait a minute, this isn't just a muscle pull, and it's really tender. I mean you, I couldn't touch it without it being pretty painful, so That was a little bit. You know, muscle pulls don't really feel that way. With muscle pull, if you, you know, if you really massage, maybe okay. But I mean, just, light touch, I could feel it. So it was something different. Well, after you have the [INAUDIBLE] and you were able to sort of bust up the initial clot. Right. The warfarin was prescribed to, essentially, prevent clots from forming for a period of time in the future. Right. Now, is this a pill that you had to take every day? Well, first off, is it a pill? It's a pill. And is it something you had to take every day? Right, it's a pill. You take it every day. and I'm trying to remem-, I can't remember exactly whether I actually took more than one in a day to ramp up to some level or not. I don't remember, but. It took about two weeks to determine that I was stable on it, that my, my clotting factors were at a normal level and not varying a lot' cause that's one of the things they look for. so I had to get you know, blood tests every, every twice a week for two weeks and then every week after that. But it's a pill and you know long term over six months I took it once a day. And so obviously, I guess, the concern is since the warfarin itself modulates the clotting factors, and how effective and efficient they work for you, that too much warfarin could be a bad thing. Absolutely, yeah. So, when your doctor prescribed this for you, what were the considerations that went into I mean, did he have lots of special instructions for you, did he try to get a lot of information from you, did you have to modify anything in your life Right. To accommodate the dosing? yes, all of the above. He gave me some fairly, they weren't super detailed, but fairly detailed instructions. I, you know once I discovered and had verified it. [LAUGH] The doctor, that I had a clot. And that I was, you know? because these shots will remind you, if nothing else. because compared to the shots, or warfarin itself, was not really a big deal for me in terms of the, you know, the ingestion. Sure. More or less, cursorily went over the instructions with me, rather than go through them word by word. Because he know I had read them, and had begun to educate myself, and I was lucky because my personal physician was also my next store neighbor. So he knew my lifestyle and knew that I was going to be, you know, pretty diligent about understanding this, you know, this condition. Mm-hm. What were some of the special exceptions we know that vitamin K is really important. Right. rather the amounts of vitamin K, it was vitamin K as an essential component for clotting. Right. So did you have to alter your diet or did you have to pay special attention to it? Yes. So before, and this is another interesting sort of predetermining factor, I think. Not just the travel but I ate a lot of leafy green vegetables which have, those are really the main sources in our normal diet of vitamin K. for example iceberg lettuce doesn't have much but romaine does, right. Kale has enormous amounts. Spinach, I love spinach. I, I ate a lot of spinach before that. So I had to cut back and I really, I didn't eliminate them from my diet, but I cut way back. And I did control very carefully, the intake. So I, I knew exactly how much I was taking each day. There were some things I totally eliminated from my diet. For example avocados, and the reason for that is, avacados you can have two avocados that look the same. Mm-hm. But yet one will have very little vitamin K and the other one can have enormous amount per unit weight. So the, the variability was just is something that you know you would, you just imagine, well I'm not going to eat those then, right? Because I don't want to inject that kind of variability in to my diet. In fact when I had the weekly blood test one thing I noticed right away was that the bleeding did not stop. Just a little pin prick in the finger is, is what was needed to get the blood test taken. So, you know, you can usually just do this with your fingers for two or three minutes and then the blood will stop, right? But it would take thirty minutes or more, because we were trying to keep my blood relatively thin the other thing, the other lifestyle change for me was I like to drive cars fast at the racetrack and I couldn't do that anymore because of the concern about blunt force trauma. Any kind of accident, you know, if you have a bad bruise you could, you know, potentially bleed to death if your blood doesn't clot well. So, you know, that's, that's the kind of thing that you know, really was a big change for me. For me personally, I stopped traveling for about six to eight weeks and then after that I remember still the first aircraft that I got on. I was fidgeting, and it was Austin to Dallas, you know, literally a 35 minute flight and then I went Dallas to Milwaukee. So maybe an hour, right? Not very far. I was fidgeting the whole time just trying to keep my blood flowing [LAUGH]. I mean it's, it really changes your attitude. I mean, for me it was my first, glimpse of mortality, right? So I mean that was, that was a big deal. And I think also, you know just having to go through a dietary change for the first time in my life and strictly control my diet You know, my attitude had always been, I'll eat as much as I want, anything I want, I'll just exercise to, to keep my weight, you know, where I want it. It wasn't like that any more. Uh-huh. So that was a big change. And, you know, it was a big change for my family, because now all of a sudden, if we were, if they were going to have Kale or spinach, I wasn't. So it was almost like we had to cook for two different diets. mm. Right? So I mean and just things like that, I mean that was, that was part of it. But I think also there was probably some worry, you know, from the other family members about, you know, is dad okay or is my husband okay, right? When I read about Warfarin I thought Well, you know, a couple of things. It's a lot like aspirin, it was discovered quite a while ago, well, early in the last century. Maybe 1930's or 20's. it's amazing that such an effective drug has not really had yet, a replacement that works, kind of for everybody. You know what I mean? that was interesting to me. because it has been used really for other purposes than treating blood clots before that. At first I thought I'm not sure I want to put this in my body but it really wasn't all that bad. The actual ingestion of the, of the drug itself. I really felt nothing and, you know, I felt perfectly normal. so that was good. And I think there you know don't fear, right? On the other hand for me I, I stabilized rapidly and, and you know my my clotting factor levels stayed very constant over time. Maybe that was just discipline. So my advice would be, follow a, a diet, you know, be really strict about your diet. That doesn't mean, you know, deprive yourself but, but be consistent with it, so that your, your, your body is being presented with the same chemistry from nutrition. I mean, I think that's really important. Because the effect of warfarin is to ultimately decrease the amount of available vitamin K, which can in turn regulate blood clotting. The amount of vitamin K available from the environment can also influence the efficacy of warfarin. So we just talked about how changing the VKORC1 levels can affect the efficacy of warfarin. But VKORC1 is acting to regulate the amount of reduced vitamin K around. So we can supplant the actions of VKORC1to a certain extent by supplying vitamin k in our diet. Leafy green vegetables have high vitamin K, and so do other foods. You can also take vitamin supplements, or find vitamin K in other sources. So if you changed your diet to be high in vitamin K, would the same dose as warfarin be more effective or less effective? The same dose of warfarin would be less effective. Remember, warfarin is normally acting to reduce vitamin K. If we're just supplying vitamin K in the diet, it makes our dosage of warfarin less effective at preventing blood clotting. The side effects of having too much warfarin can be very serious. In fact, the depletion of vitamin K through administration of warfarin can actually result in significant internal bleeding, and even death. Now, just as the pharmacodynamic pathway of warfarin, the effects warfarin has on the body can be modulated through alleles in the VKORC1 gene. We can also the pharacokinetic pathways, or the metabolism of Warfrin through alleles in the CYP2C9 gene, or CYP2C9. CYP2C9, or C Y P 2 C 9, is a member of a class of enzymes called cytochrome P450 oxidases. This family of enzymes is expressed robustly in the liver. And it's responsible for metabolizing a large amount of the drugs and chemicals that pass through your body. You can think of these proteins as the detox proteins. because that's pretty much what they do for you. They take all the nasty stuff, all the bad stuff. All the drugs. All the chemicals that get in your body. And over time, sometimes faster, sometimes slower. They're able to break them down, and get rid of them. Now, the shorthand notation for cytochrome P450 oxidase is, is just CYP, or CYP. And there are many different specific kinds of CYP proteins. Specifically, CYP2C9 directly breaks down warfarin, making it a pharmacokinetic player in the warfarin pathway. So based on this information, which of the following would result in the most severe warfarin toxicity. An efficient CYP2C9 or an inefficient CYP2C9? Remember, warfarin toxicity in this case would be too much warfarin. It turns out an inefficient CYP2C9 would result in the most warfarin intoxicity. I mean think about it. If you have an inefficient way of breaking down warfarin, you're going to have more warfarin around. A buildup of warfarin is what can lead to toxicity. CYP2C9 is important in the pharmacokinetic pathway of Warfarin. So let's learn a bit more about how it goes from gene, to protein. CYP2C9 can be found on chromosome ten of the human genome. Chromosome ten is about 135 million base pairs long. And the CYP2C9 gene can be found towards the end of the chromosome. The CYP2C9 gene itself contains nine exons spanning more than 50,000 base pairs of DNA. After transcription and splicing, the resulting MRNA contains 1473 nucleotide decoding region between the start and stop codons. And then after translation, you end up with a protein that has 490 amino acids. There's one allele of the CYP2C9 gene that's associated with enhanced Warfarin efficacy and potential toxicity, and you can see that allele here, the change from an adenine to a cytosine at position 1,075. Now, using the genetic code we learned about in lesson three, and which you can find in the instructor's notes on this page. I want you to determine the change expected in amino acid sequence here. And then select the type of mutation that best categorizes the cytosine allele. If you have trouble answering this. Go back and review mutations from lesson six. After checking our genetic code, we see that this is most likely a missense mutation. Because we change from a isoleucine codon to a leucine codon. Because the overall change is just one amino acid to a different one. This is categorized as a missense. Just one copy of the C allele at position 1,075, the CYP2C9 gene reduces the rate of Warfarin metabolism by 40%. The A allele characterizes typical Warfarin metabolism, where CYP2C9 can bind Warfarin and break it down into it's metabolites, but the C allele runs in about 40% reduced activity. I want you to see if you can classify this C allele as dominant or recessive and as a loss-of-function or gain-of-function allele. Now the C allele would be dominant because you only need one copy to see an effect. And it's a loss of function allele because the rate of metabolism is reduced. Remember, dominant alleles show up when there's only one copy. And we would definitely see a backup of Warfarin, leading to increased Warfarin toxicity. And it's a loss of function well, because we've reduced our normal function by about 40%. Now if you promise to stay away from the Leafy Greens like Kale or Spinach. I think this dose of Warfarin will be just right for you [SOUND]. Thanks Doc. No problem. Knowing your Genotype for the VKORC1 or CYP2C9 Allele could be really important information to share with your doctor. So, he or she can prescribe the right dose of Warfarin that maximizes the Efficacy and minimizes the Toxicity. Now even if you don't know this genetic information beforehand there are ways of measuring your reaction to a particular dose of a drug like Warfarin after you've started treatment. But wouldn't it be nice to know this genetic information in advance? So let's see if you can put all this knowledge together that we've learned about in this lesson and come up with the right prescription. You can prove to me that you understand what the right prescription would be if you can tell me what combination of the following possibilities could result in maximum warfarin toxicity. Remember that, warfarin toxicity means too much warfarin. To help you out I put down here the pathway. Warfarin blocks Blood Clotting, if it blocks blood clotting too much it actually causes bleeding or hemorrhaging. Its mechanism of action is by blocking VKORC1. Which promotes Vitamin K recycling. Which leads to blood clotting and CYP2C9 metabolizes warfarin. So it effectively inhibits the activity of warfarin. For each of these three possible categories here. I want you to tell me which total combination of these three things would result in maximum warfarin toxicity? And once you do that I want you to describe for me why you think that is. Why the particular combination you've selected you think is the right answer. So the answer to this question is the combination that leaves the most Warfarin around to have a maximum affect. VKORC1 is involved in the pharmacodynamic response. So if we have less of it around. Then there's more Warfarin to VKORC1, so we can saturate our VKORC1 faster, with less VKROC1 around. CYP2C9 represents the pharmacokinetic aspect of Warfarin, because it metabolizes or breaks Warfarin down. Well if CYP2C9 is slow. Then that means we're going to end up with more Warfarin around. And vitamin K is downstream in the pathway, and since vitamin K itself promotes blood clotting, which is the opposite of what Warfarin is trying to do, if we have low to no vitamin K, no leafy greens in this case, then we don't need as much Warfarin to block the effects of the vitamin K recycling to promote blood clotting. So less VKORC1, a slow or reduced activity for CYP2C9. And low to no vitamin K supplemented in other ways. Knowing your explanation that you tried to write out to justify your combination. Hopefully you recongize that the pharmacodynamic or PD pathway was with VKORC1. The pharmacokinetic pathway was with CYP2C9. And then a max toxicity, essentially is maximizing the pharmacodynamic pathway and minimizing the pharmacokinetic pathway. If we wanted an optimum efficacy, minimum toxicity, we would have to be somewhere in the middle that allows Warfarin to achieve its function of blocking some amount of blood clotting. But not so much that it promotes bleeding. So recognizing that this combination is not what we want is really one of the first major steps to understanding what the right prescription is. I hope you enjoyed learning all about pharmacogenomics in this lesson. Now see if you can try your hand at the concept map, using the words in the word bank here, try to fill in all the blanks. Alright. Although there might have been some new terms for some of you out there in this lesson, hopefully the concept map wasn't too hard to piece together. Let's start here with pharmacogenomics, which studies how the genome affects our response to drugs. Now pharmacogenomics wants to minimize toxicity and maximize efficacy of drugs. The ability to do that enhances personalized medicine. Pharmacogenomics is one main way that we can achieve more personalized medicine. Now obviously the genome contains many various alleles which we've learned about in. Many lessons, particularly if you want a refresher, lessons 3, 4, and 6 would be a good place to check out. But in this lesson we learn that alleles that affect pharmacokinetics have to do with pathways about the metabolism of drugs. Whereas alleles affecting pharmacodynamics are about pathways that are target effects of the specific drugs. Together, the pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics influence our efficacy and toxicity of particular drugs that are at the center of our study in pharmacogenomics. In this lesson we covered some pretty advanced topics, and I hope you enjoyed them or were able to follow along. But let's actually see if we can summarize these ideas into four main points. Point one, pharmacogenetics is the study of how our genes influence our reactions to particular drugs. Point two, pharmadynamics concerns itself with, what a drug does to your body, specifically how it binds to a particular protein and creates a particular effect. Point three, pharmacokinetics is about what your body does to a drug, in other words, how your body metabolizes or clears the drug from its system. And point four, genetic variability in the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic pathways influences the toxicity and efficacy of a drug. The wrong dose of a drug can either have no effect at all, or it could possibly have dire consequences for an individual. At least I know I have a functioning ADH, but I'm going to stick to water for now. Variation and mutation in individual genes that are involved in pathways of drug metabolism will determine the effectiveness and toxicity of an individual drug for an individual person. Well, but what about the rest of the family? You mean like how did they respond to drugs? No, I mean how are we all connected? that's next. Oh, good. It's time we turn our focus to how our genomes connect all of us together. In the next lesson, we're going to learn all about human ancestry and evolution using personal genetic information. So, my name is Ryan. I'm, live in Palo Alto but I'm from Maryland and I'm lactose intolerant. For everybody out there who doesn't know what lactose intolerance is, tell us briefly what being lactose intolerant means. in briefly, it means I can't have milk or other dairy products without experiencing some Discomfort. I see discomfort. And, can you elaborate a little bit on discomfort? Sure. discomfort typically means it's digestive discomfort. So it's gas, bloating, diarrhea, that sort of thing. is anyone else in your family lactose intolerant? Yes. My younger sister is. But I have a brother who is not. And my parents are not. Okay. so do you, do you have any experience with this being a genetic trait, like do, do, does this run in your family, being lactose intolerant? I actually don't know, because most of my family lives in the Philippines, and they don't drink cow milk. They have the, they drink powdered milk, and all those, and non-dairy products. Because it's not as popular there, so it wasn't until I discovered I was lactose intolerant that I learned anything about it. And when did you discover that you were lactose intolerant? I would say that would be about two or three years ago so. Really? That late in life? Yes. But when I found out I was lactose intolerant, it kind of explained some things from when I was younger. because there were times like when I would have dairy products and I'd be fine, but then there would be times that if I had too much I felt, I felt a little gassy, but when I discovered I was lactose intolerant it kind of made sense that if I was young and overloaded on it made sense that, that I would feel discomfort. I see so when you were young though, you felt like you could have normal amounts. Mm-hm. And you were okay. Right. It wasn't until graduate school, until yeah about two years ago that I discovered I was lactose intolerant. And I think it's because that's when it kind of just. When really, it kind of shut off. Right, right. How'd that make you feel to sort of discover this about yourself? Well, I guess that it kind of made sense to me because it explained a lot of things about why I'd randomly feel sick some days and why I wouldn't other days and just depending on my breakfast. But it was kind of annoying [LAUGH] To find out, mostly, because I knew I'd have to either change my diet or. Right. Other things. So what are the kinds of foods you actually have to avoid if you are lactose intolerant person. I you are lactose intolerant and you are not taking any type of supplement then you basically have to avoid anything that has an appreciable amount of dairy products and so of, obviously I'm not going to be drinking [UNKNOWN] milk, ice cream, pizzas with a lot of cheese on it. taco, taco, American style tacos, doritos, all those things, cake, cheesecake. So what you're saying is that there's a lot of food restrictions? Yes. It is a, there's a lot, a huge part of the diet that is, has dairy products in it. And so discovering lactose intolerant kind of makes it more difficult to Get that sort of. So do you find yourself in situations I guess social situations where you see a food come out and you're like oh,gosh, I really want that and then you're like oh, gosh, I can't eat it? Yes, especially, I do try to carry around lactase pills lactase enzyme pills, but if I don't have them then yes, if someone's like let's go out for ice cream! I go, oh, I guess I can't. Or. Yeah. If there's pizza. Especially if people, you know, at the last minute want to get pizza, or certain, go out for dinner and we haven't decided, if they suggest pizza, I kind, I have to go, I don't I can't really eat that. Are people receptive to this when you tell them, like if you tell a group of friends, or even new people, hey I'm lactose intolerant, you know, can we do something else. Or can we go somewhere else? Are people normally receptive? Yes. especially in California actually. Because in California a lot of people are, know people with various dietary restrictions or are on different diets. And so it's definitely it hasn't really affected my social life. It just means that we do something else. You mentioned lactase pills. What exactly is a lactase pill, and where do you get it? How much does it cost? A lactase pill is just a little pill, about an, a little less than an inch big, by a quarter inch, that is just, a number of units of lactase enzyme. So lactose intolerance means, my body doesn't produce lactase anymore, which is the enzyme that breaks down the lactose sugar into two different sugars. So, this pill, I eat it, I always buy the fast act pill so I can just eat it, with my first bite of food and it kind of dissolves and tries to break down all the sugars in my stomach. And so I take that with my first bite of dairy. And then I'm usually good for about 45 minutes before I have to take another one. Well how much do they cost? I would say it's about ten cents a pill, so 120 would be about 12 to $13 at Safeway, for example. Wow, so it's over the counter. Mm-hm. And you think it's a good deal? I think it's a good deal, because You know especially since I'm lactose intolerant, I've cut down on the amount of dairy I have incidentally. Mm-hm. So it means that if I am controlling it one box 128, that's 120 servings of dairy products. Right. That's a lot of dairy. Yeah and, you know, I switched out the milk I buy for the one that already is lactose free. So that means I don't have to take a pill every time I drink a glass of milk. is this a trait you would ever want to change about yourself at all? Definitely. I just feel, I mean being lactose intolerant just means I can't live my same life. And eat the same amount of, eat the same foods and do the same things I want to. But I just have to spend more money. To do it because I buy the lactase lactose free milk and I buy the lactase pills to supplement other meals. Are there any advantages to being a lactose intolerant? The only advantage, I would think, is if you're trying to diet. Like if you're trying to lose weight, you're not going to be eating the deep dish Chicago style pizzas, or the burritos. If you're lactose intolerant because even with lactase pills, that might just still be too much dairy to consume at one time. So, I mean, that's the only advantage I can see. [LAUGH]. Otherwise, it's just kind of, like I said, it's an, an annoyance in your life. So do people ever tease you about it like do your friends ever like, you know will say nicely tease you? I can't imagine somebody like teasing, teasing you. [LAUGH]. Well actually, last time I came here, I walked in, and they were like, oh, you're Ryan, you're lactose intolerant! And then people were eating ice cream oh, I guess you can't have that. [LAUGH] But yeah, I mean, it's just light-hearted things. It's just like, oh, I've got my pills, it doesn't matter, and things like that. Have you ever gotten your own personal genetic information? Done from a company like 23andMe? Yes, I have. And did, what did that tell you about you being lactose intolerant? Did it confirm this? Or it confirmed I have the, the genotype that is likely lactose intolerant. Because since lactose intolerant can also depend on environmental factors like your, your actual gut bacteria that breaks down the lactose It means I have the tendency to be lactose intolerant. But it doesn't mean I am. The only way you can confirm that you are is to kind of know that you are. You said that you found out you were lactose intolerant relatively recently. Did you have the personal genetic information before or after you knew that? it was afterwards. Oh it was after. Yeah. Okay, okay. So I knew I was lactose intolerant. And then I got the 23andMe. And it said Yes, you have the genotype that is likely lactose intolerant. Okay. I said, well, yes. You were like, yes, correct. It's like, when I, you know, you see the 23 and, you are likely, you likely have brown eyes. And I look in the mirror and go yes. Yes, you are correct 23andMe. So you say the lactase pills work, the ones you take, you say they're fast acting? And then you take one and your normally good for like 45 minutes. are there other types of lactase pills out there? Sure. There's another type of lactase pill that's more slow acting. And they're generally a little cheaper. But, that one you have to take about half an hour, in advance of eating any dairy. Mm-hm. And so, for that kind. That means you have to kind of plan ahead of what you're eating. Whereas Since I don't like that, but in terms of planning my meals, oftentimes I'm just, I take just the fast act pills because it allows me to make quick decisions on food. And can you take two of your fast acting ones at once to last longer, or does that not work? I, I don't know about it lasting longer, but if I'm eating a large thing of dairy, so like I mentioned before, the deep dish Chicago style pizza, I'll take two. I'll take two at that first bite, because I know it's a lot to process, so taking two at once would help. What would you say, if you could give advice to somebody who, let's say we're talking to Ryan three years ago before he found out he was lactose intolerant and he, you know, just discovered That your lactose intolerant. What advice would you give that person? I think the first advice would be to test your limits on lactose tolerance. So I can have a bite of ice cream or one nacho with cheese or [UNKNOWN]. So like knowing your limit on what you can have without any kind of supplement is useful and also to just Make the decision whether you're going to change your diet or buy the pills or some kind of combination of both, just kind of figure it out, or, and look into lactose free alternatives to milk or, they even have lactose free ice cream now, but it's very expensive, so it's like. Sure. Is it worth it to buy the ice cream so you don't have to take pills or do you want to take pills every single time you eat ice cream sort of thing. It's kind of just decide all the different ways to manage your lactose intolerance and figure out which way is the best for you. Can your lactose intolerance get worse over time, or have you noticed, you know, that you've become even more intolerant now that you use maybe the lactase pill? yes, I would definitely say I've become more lactose intolerant since I discovered it. When I discovered it, I still could have a single serving of dairy, Mm-hm. And not experience symptoms, but now it's to the point where I can't even have a full serving of dairy. I can't have an eight-ounce glass of lact of regular milk without experiencing some symptoms so yeah I think definitely it's been, I've been more lactose intolerant over the time but I don't know what causes that if it's just the fact that my body is producing less, and less, and less and that's a gradual thing or if it has anything to do with supplementing it or not having normal lactose. huh. So, but I'm not sure. Well thank you for coming in and chatting with us. Yeah, thanks for talking to me. I don't get to talk about this that often. [LAUGH] My name is Ginny Foos, and I'm honored to be here. And it actually brings back some really great memories. When I was ten, I was on a television show outside of WGBH in Boston, which is where I grew up. And I was one of five panelists that had disabilities. And we, filmed for two years. And it was a real coming of age experience for me because, we were asked to sit on very hot seats, talking about how do you feel about being different, how do you feel about being teased. And not only was I saving in psychological cost, I didn't have to see a shrink. I was actually being paid for talking about my feelings. And I really bonded with the other four individuals. And it was really neat. unfortunately, we did not stay on air for the two years, but scholastic educational services picked us up. And this was right when the mainstreaming act was really coming into play. When, when I started kindergarten, I was not allowed to go to the local school. I had to go to a special school, even though intellectually I'm no different than you are. but the mainstreaming act took place in 1972. Mm-hm. And by first grade, I was then able to go to a local public school. So, jump ahead seven or eight years, which was when we were filming Feeling Free. The, the thought was, we, we have to expose the public to diversity so that students can become comfortable when these other students are suddenly sitting in the desk next to theirs. Right! So it was a really neat experience, my other panelists, or, friends, I guess, would be the better word. we, we, we did audition, and, so, they were able to get some of really awesome articulate kids. Mm-hm One had cerebral palsy, one became blind during the process of our show. And so that was very interesting to befriend somebody that's, I, when I first met her could see. Mm-hm And when we finished, could not see at all. And remind me again, how old were you at this time? I was, ten. Ten to 12. Right in those crucial years, yeah. So at, was this the same age where you were noticing, I mean, how old were you when you, sort of, noticed yourself that you were different from other people. And maybe you, when your parents also noticed this. That's a really good question. my parents were given the diagnosis when I was 18 months old. And they wonder to this day whether or not that was a delayed diagnosis that no one had the heart to break it to them. now this was pre DNA testing, this was all based on X-rays, and femur length. Femur is what they really go for in measuring the femur length. and there we were sitting in Boston, one of the top medical communities in the country and the gentleman that gave my parents the, diagnosis was T Barry Brazefin, who was sort of the Dr. Spock, not the Sci Fi doctor Spock but the sort of, the pediatric voice of America in the 70s. And so I love to tell people that I was diagnosed by that man, myself. So they knew when I was 18 months old. I think many little people like myself did not come to their own realization until they're in school. Mm-hm. Because that's when the teasing really starts. Sure. And the accessibility, if you will. Especially back then. You know we're talking about the 70's. There wasn't any Americans with Disability Act. So that's when I was having to struggle to, to access what my fellow students were accessing. Did you notice so, what kind of, experience did you have with other students? Was it entirely negative from the beginning? I mean, did, were people, you know, were kids mean, were they, did they tease a lot, did they, you know, did the just sort of look unsure, you know, seeing something different from themselves, what kind of interaction was it, and did it change as you went through schooling? luckily, I grew up in a very educated community. You know, 30 minutes away from MIT, Harvard, you know, all of the Ivy Leagues in Boston. and I think that's, that speaks a lot to, kids and their val, you don't have value system but their manners and so forth. Sure. So I don't remember getting teased too much. I'm sure I did and how much of that I have sort of put under the surface. Mm-hm. And forgotten about. but I, I don't it, I have a tougher time even today when I'm in an inner-city environment where my, the people surrounding me, don't have the same etiquette. And don't have the same education, the same exposure. And that's really where I struggle more than where I grew up. In a suburb of Boston. Well,to get a bit more of that sort of educated thought and idea I want you to tell us you know, as a medical condition of dwarfism what is, what do you know is the cause of shorter stature? And in particular in your case, what is the, what is the cause of, of this? Well, remember there are over 200 different types of dwarfism, achondroplasia being the most common. So if you were to meet another little person in your life, most likely they would have achondroplasia. So I can only really speak to achondroplasia. it is a dominant gene, it is also a mutation. So, what that means is, an individual can have achondroplasia for two reasons. One would be their parents have it, and it's been inherited as it was with my children. The other would be, it's a genetic mutation, which is a complete Unexplained event, which is what it was for me. I, I'm the only little person in my family. My little brother is six three and my parents, my grandfather was a genologist so you can image he spent a lot of time looking into this. and I am the only dwarf in my family of origin. But I then went on to meet my husband who also has achodroplasia. Okay We got married and we have three children. I gave birth to two of them and I flew to Moscow for the third one. To adopt from an orphanage. who also has achondroplasia but clearly not from me or my husband, she, from all we know, which is really not much, is a mutation as well, her parents were average height and I suspect in Russia, it's a lot harder to be a little person. Sure Yeah Are you familiar with the gene that is actually mutated in most cases of achondroplasia? The FR. The FGFR3 gene. That's it. That's what I am. okay. There's a reason I don't teach science. I'm, I'm an English and drama teacher and Spanish teacher not a science teacher. So yes, very familiar. I, I don't spend a whole lot of time conversing about it. what is really, really cool is that when the gene was discovered. In 1994. In 1992, the National Convention was in San Francisco. I was eight months pregnant. We had both my in-laws there as well as my parents, and when we have a National Convention that Little People of America puts on. A gaggle of healthcare providers fly in, that have specialized or have an interest in, dwarfism. And so, they'll be no less than 15 or 20 geneticists from around the country. Sometimes we even have international geneticists. And we all volunteered ourselves for blood draw, when I was eight months pregnant. And they sent me home with a vial for umbilical blo, blood that I was, when I was going to give birth a month later so that they could get umbilical cord blood. So, I like to say we had a little bit of something to do with the discovery of the gene two years later. Absolutely. Now, on that note I have two children that I gave birth to. One in August of 1992, the other in November of 1997. The gene was discovered in 1994 or 5. So that meant that my pregnancies were very, very different. In 1992, the only diagnostic tool that they could use was ultrasound. And again, they were looking at the femur in the fetus And they could not measure that accurately until I was 24 weeks pregnant. So at that time, they told me, and I was actually being seen by the gentleman that wrote the growth charts for fetuses at UCSF, and he was the one reading my film, my, my measurements, from the ultrasound. And he said, Jenny, this is a tough one. He said, that femur is in the seventh percentile. And typically, if we're looking at a heterozygote. Mm hm. Meaning that the embryo fetus has gotten the gene from one of you. That femur is going to be over the tenth percentile. Right around, between the tenth and the twentieth or thirtieth, or something. and you're coming in at the seventh, and that makes us very concerned, that perhaps you are carrying a homozygote. And a homozygote, what that means in, in lay term is a double dominant. And in achondroplasia, they have found that to be lethal. The baby is born and lives no more than a week. Typically more a matter of hours. Without life support. So it was a really tough call. So, we went ahead and, and, went with what we thought was right, and Alex was born, and obviously he's still with us. He's 20 years old, so he must be a heterozygote. Although he has had a lot of medical issues. True. jump ahead five years later, and in between that, by the way, I'd flew to Moscow to adopt the second child. I'm pregnant again with our now 15 year old, and I have an amniocentesis at ten weeks. And within a week, I get a phone call from a genetic counsellor at Baylor University in Texas telling me, you have a heterozygote. 100% certainty. So you can imagine the difference in the stress involved around both pregnancies. So do you think it's a, in your mind, knowing in advance, is a good thing. You want to know even aside from your case. Cause there's also a possibility that if you're two heterozygotes have children that neither that a child gets. But. Does not get the gene. Does not get the gene. So what that means in lay terms is I could have had you. You could have been my child! Exactly. I would have been 15, but nonetheless. So there is as much of a possibility that I would have what we would call an average sized child or even an above average sized child. I have friends that are my size, very good friends. Whose only child, a son, is six foot four. Mm-hm. So, I had as big of a chance of that as I had of a lethal situation. Both of those being 25% chance. And then I had a 50% chance of having the hetrozygote where the kid gets the gene from either me or my, or my husband. Mm-hm. And that's what we wound up with. We did never, we never experienced the, homozygote, thankfully. Thankfully, yeah. Although I have many friends that have. What, so now I'd like to, just maybe talk a bit more about that, because that seems like it could be a challenge. Just, I guess first, in your mind then knowing. Having this information. Being able to know this information up front, right, at the beginning of your pregnancy early on. Is that something that's important to you in the process? Was that something you were happy to know about or do you wish you kind of couldn't find out maybe until later? I'm going to skirt that a little bit and I'm going to talk about it in third person because it's such a personal choice. Sure. I'm going to tell you that I have friends that fall into all of these different categories. I have one friend that buried three babies in five years because they kept coming up with that 25% chance. I have one friend who has two average sized children. So they came up with that 25, the other 25% twice. and I have friends that have said, oh, we'll never get pregnant. Because we don't want a dwarf child. We went through so much ourselves. We would never want that for our, a child. I have friends that say, I'm scared to death of having an average-sized child, which I don't understand because I teach high school. You know, that is not a big deal. And I have these great friends in L.A. whose son, as I just told you, is six foot four. so, you know, this, this choice that we are now given, or the access to this technology, maybe is, is very, very powerful. I'm going to tell you a quick story. We, we had a regional conference in Los Angeles about a year ago. Three women, all in their twenties, all kind of grew up together, by default, I mean not necessarily in the same town, but because they've been Little People of America members all of their lives. All pregnant. Now, they all have had the testing. One of them did not want to have the testing, for religious reasons. But, far along into the pregnancy, decided. I don't want to go through baby showers. I don't want to decorate a nursery, unless. There's a reason to. So, it's not going to change anything about the pregnancy, I'm going to go through the pregnancy, but I need to know. And so she knew she was carrying a double dominant. And there she was, with a smile on her face, with the other two women, one of whom had already buried a double dominant, and was on her second try. And knew that that one, I believe was going to be average size. And then the third young woman, knew that she was having a heterozygote dwarf and there they were all happy and talking, and I just, the strength that the girl had that knew she had a double domet inside of her, was just amazing. It gets a little bit more sad. So, the baby lived a few hours, they waited the three months that they were told to wait, They got pregnant again. And again, had the double dominant. And, and kept it. And that's their own choice, and aren't we lucky, in this country, that we have choices. Right. how much, I mean, I can't imagine, you know, the, the strength and the sort of, the, having to go through a situation like that personally. how much of the strength going through the actual reproductive process, you know, the, the joys and the pains of giving birth and, and the specifically in this case you know, being able to have access to this information and knowledge. When you do find out information if it's not the information you want, how much of that strength is derived from you personally versus a community maybe of, of other people. of, of other little people talking to the other people about this how, how is a community itself either helped or hurt in any way? Well again I can't speak from personal experience. you know I, this, this again, this technology is bittersweet. It really is. I can say that, belonging to a support group like Little People of America offers a tremendous amount of support. And we all know these statistics. We've been told these statistics since. I knew what my odds were when I was ten years old. And babysitting. And knew that I wanted to have children. And I wanted to be a teacher. I. Did that influence my selection of mate? Did I say to myself, oh I better not find, I better not fall in love with another achrondroplastic, because we have a 25% chance of having a homozygote? Absolutely not. Do I ache for my boys, who will most likely, by mere fact of, numbers will wind up with achondroplastic woman? And this will be on the table. Do I ache for them? Before they are even you know, really dating? Absolutely, I ache for them. That this is a reality in their life and so the support from the community is there. Now, again, if, the one thing I've learned over the years is just because we're all little, does not mean we have the same politics. Uh-huh. Does not mean we have the same religious convictions. And so I actually have found myself in a very awkward position. One of the reasons I'm sort of skirting away from. my position on this is that one too many times I have stated my position on this to another little person, who is just as educated about this as I am about this as I am and they have gotten up off of the conversation and walked away. And so, the support is there. But, the naysayers, or the conviction, the convicted people are also there. So it's, it's, it's a very very delicate discussion. Sure. When, when was your first introduction to this community of, of other little people? did you find that when you were still growing up as a kid? Or is this more of something you were, became, became more active in as an adult? I suspect, that my parents came home after being delivered the diagnosis by Brazelton, who probably gave them, not the website, because there were no websites. But the phone number of the local Little People of America, which I will now from here on out call LPA contact. And I suspect that by the time my parents got home, because there were no cell phones back then, they called the local contact and said, when is your next get together? So, I have known, nothing else but LPA. I was raised in LPA. And the analogy that I use with new parents I'm often put in touch with, because I, I have sort of a, little bit of a handle in, in the medical community here in the bay area, both at Stafford, at UCSF, and at the children's hospital Oakland, everybody has my phone number. So I'm often, my husband and I are often put in the position to be that phone contact, or in this day of age, the email contact. And so the advice I give those people, that originally, you know, the first Talk is typically over the phone, or on the computer. It's not face to face. Is I try to really stress the importance of joining LPA right then and there. Because it's more for the parents, at that point, than it is for the kid. And the analogy that I use, is, you know? We've all been on airplanes where the flight attendant does her, his or her spiel. And they say. Parents in event of emergency put the oxygen on yourself first and then assist your children. It's exactly the same thing in any sort of support group as far as I'm concerned. Those parents need to get to, educated, they need to get their head wrapped around this, so that when the kid does off to school at five years old, and comes home in tears, because they couldn't reach something. Because they were teased. because they couldn't reach the cafeteria line, whatever. Those parents are ready to go. They've been told in advance that those are the questions that kids are going to have. They have contacts of other parents whose kids are a couple years older. And, it just doesn't, that's just the way it should be done. And, and often times, I'll be honest, we have had very eye opening conversations with 40 somethings that were not encouraged by their families To come to LPA. And they have now found us on their own. And here they come. And often, with drink in hand at the dinnertime dance, they're, they've got their head in their hands, saying, what did I miss? Where have I been? And you know who they're mad at? Their parents. Their parents. So, Ginny, I just want to know a little bit more about you. Why don't you Just tell me where you're from and I want to know what, what you do for fun. I grew up in a suburb of Boston called Lincoln, Massachusetts. we had, we, we, were on the train line and I don't remember which line but I could. I was going into Boston on my own when I was 12 years old. Oh wow. I don't know if my parents would have allowed that in this day of age but, so lots and lots of fun. Great place to live. And then I moved to Colorado. My father was transferred just as I was starting high school. And that was a little bit unfortunate. It was two weeks before high school started, and we were uprooted. it was the best decision for my father but maybe not for me so much, because, you know. it, it's hard for a little person to break into a new situation. Especially right in the middle of hi, at the beginning of high school. but anyways, stayed in Colorado Springs. for all for years, and then got out of Dodge. Colorado Springs and my politics do not align well. So decided to come west to the bay area for college. and I've been here ever since. And, I believe that was about 25 years ago. Nice. As far as hobbies, I kind of try to get into whatever my teenage and above children are into. So that we can maybe spend some time together. [LAUGH] and I'm not And, I'm first in what it is that they're talking about. So, that's in every, ever evolving process. [LAUGH]. and no matter how hard I try I, I don't seem to be up to snuff enough. But I, I by default I have to know how to sew, I do sew. economically these days it doesn't make sense to sew your clothes, it's cheaper to buy them. But by default I have to alter clothes. So I, I am in front of my sewing machine at least twice a month, altering pant, pant length and sleeve length. So, what is that...I've never thought about that before, but I mean, where, where do you shop? I mean, do you, are you, I mean, do you have to shop in different areas or places for things than most people? I'm a good old size eight, like 60% of women out there. And so I'm buying the same stuff your mom's buying. I'm bringing it home and cutting it off at the knee and probably tapering it a bit, 'because I don't want it this wide what it. You know at the knee it would be this wide so I'm tapering it. And I'm altering it, the same thing on the sleeves Because our torsos are not affected. As you can see, you and I are pretty much. Right. Sitting Yeah. At the same height. That's really interesting. and what kinds of hobbies do your kids get you into besides, they usually involve technology or soccer, so I'm, I'm slowly learning the ropes on, social media. Soccer, I'm just really struggling with it. I sort of complain that there's a fraternity in my house and I'm the outsider. dinnertime conversations always come to soccer and I kind of disappear and nobody notices. [LAUGH] Well in sort of in line with a lot of these everyday items, I'm, I'm really curious and I'm sure other people are too. What are, are there any advantages to having a slightly shorter stature in general? this is a very common question. And I always say to myself, I gotta write it down. because I never, you know, am fully prepared. But in this instance I, I did think about it some. let's start with the disadvantages. Cause I it, that, that's a shorter list. The grocery store It's horrible. And I haven't quite figured out the best time to go. If I were not little, the best time to go, clearly, would be 6:30 or 7:00 in the morning, when I'm awake because it's not crowded. But it's a very bad time for me to go when it's not crowded, because there aren't people in the aisles to turn to and say, can you hand me that jar up there. So, I think the compromise is more like 10 a.m. You know, which unfortunately because I don't work full time, I can do that. And, I can always pretty much count on waiting no more than two or three minutes for somebody to show up in the aisle. I'm not going to go to customer service every time I need help. You get very savvy at flirting with people. [LAUGH] To get what you need. So I will strike up a conversation instantly, with the main motivation being that I need that can of tomatoes at the top of the counter. [LAUGH] other disadvantages, it really depends, its hard to go into communities that are less educated and less mannered. Because we are so comfortable in, in our community, which, granted, has gotten to know us. On so many different levels... Mm-hm. Over the last 20 years. My husband and I, both our careers, myself as a substitute teacher and he as a an IT guy for small businesses in our immediate area, we're very well known. Mm-hm. only because people don't forget us, you know. It's not a comment on our personality. However, I've, been told that we sort of have magnanimous personalities as well. so we get really comfortable in our environment. And then when we step out to a different environment and the reaction is totally inappropriate, it's, it's, it's a slap in the face. It's a reminder. Can you, I mean if you're comfortable, can you give us an example of a negative reaction that you. I actually can have, I can give you two. And, and, and they're a little bit different. one of them was pure ignorance. There's nothing more upsetting to me than to be in an environment where it's the adults. That are grabbing the children and saying, look at the midget, come here, come here Frankie, come look at the midget. I can not believe that in this day of age that still happening. But when I go into inner city environments, in a grocery store, you know grocery stores are really harsh places for me to be. Not only because of the physical thing but you're trapped. You know, you're in a grocery store line, and you can't go anywhere, and you've got kids with their fingers right, five feet away from you. And you're trapped. So that is definitely, you know, hard. The other example of ignorance was an educated ignorance, if I dare say. The five of us were on our bikes in San Francisco by the Palace of Fine Arts. Like we're riding our bikes around, and we rode in front of a tour bus from, with tourists from another country, that their cultural norm is to be curious, and to be scientific. And they forget appropriate behavior in that quest for curiosity! And so, we can pretty much assure that when we go by a tour bus, of, or a group of tourists from other countries. Those video cameras are trained on us like snipers. And my husband has gotten to the point. He's a very very patient man. But he will walk up right to the camera, and say you will delete that picture. He gets very upset. I imagine. And imagine having 50 of them on your family. You feel like there are snipers on you. What's the difference in your reaction to how other people respond to you? Versus how people may respond to your children. Is, are, are your feelings about this trait different for yourself versus how you see other people react to it maybe your children or other relatives or friends? I am the biggest mama bear you will ever meet. You mess with my kids watch out. Enough said. what let's go back to some of the, some of, some of the advantages. Oh yeah. [LAUGH] [LAUGH] Because that's a longer list. It really is. advantages, let's see. Well here's a hybrid. Why don't we do the hybrid first. Okay. The spotlight is always on. Fair enough. So you can be, entertaining. And the life of the party. And everyone wants to talk to you. You could could get a, a special spot on Tales from the Genome. Yep. but let's say I've had a bad day. The spotlight's still there. I actually have a deeper appreciation for public figures. Because by default, we have become public figures. I feel I, I, can't imagine being somebody like Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt with their children. And talk about being hunted. You know, and, and, not being able to go out for a meal. Without, the intrusion. So, that's the negative side of that spotlight. Well actually, and to go on a quick tangent, you made me realize, you know, the way little people are portrayed in the media, what aspect, I mean, what are your thoughts on that? How, how are little people portrayed in your mind? Positive, negative, in-between, mix, and how do, what is your reaction to that? Our Sidney Poitier is Peter Dinklage. I am so proud of him. And I want, along with hundreds of other little people, mostly female by the way, want to meet him. For better, for worse, he's not involved with our group, and I can't comment as to why. I would say he's quite busy these days he is the top billed actor on one of the most popular TV shows right now. He has been consistantly on the show from, I believe, day one. they're not killing him off, like they kill off everybody else. He, he will be king. I don't follow the show, but I have enough friends who are thinking, you're crazy. Why aren't you following the show? He's going to be king. And, I would like to, my husband is not into the blood and gore and sex to the degree that they are. But, I, I am keeping my eye on him. He is our Sidney Poitier. And he is up for his second Emmy in two years. Right now. So he's really been sort of a, for you. a big pivotal figure. And, and a good image of being, like. Everybody else. And he's super popular. and it's, it's, it's almost not even. I don't want to say, not noticed as a trait. But it's, it's not important in who he is, necessarily, as far as, it happens to be part of him. And so that gives visibility to the trait, but the focus on him is not because of his stature. Not in this particular [INAUDIBLE] show. Right. Exactly. he had sold himself to the devil a couple a times. He's tried real hard in the interviews that I've seen not to. I mean he has been eating out of tuna fish cans for a, you know, the beginning of his career. While offers of being leprechauns and, and, Santa's elves and so much were being thrown at him. He, he, really was keeping true to himself. There are a couple of pieces of work that I would prefer that he had not done. But for the most part, he redeemed himself with Station Agent, for which he got an Oscar and he, come to find out, he's been in a lot of little stuff, I'm going home to watch, another tv series he was in, seven episodes on, because I'm just so curious. I think it's a shame that he has not identified with our group, because he has so much to offer. up and coming pep, students that want to maybe delve into the film industry. Well, outside of Peter Dinklage, as far as media portrayal goes. Even you know, maybe not in the Hollywood sense, just in news or TV, what else have you noticed about portrayal? in the last decade, there has been a lot of curiosity with little people for a while. And I don't know if I'm allowed to say this, We were nicknaming the TLC network The Little Channel. Because they seemed heavily interested. At one point there were five or six different series going on involving little people. Mm-hm. So now that we've, seem to have lost our luster a bit. And we were one of them. But only for two episodes. Only for two. And we. We get very defensive. What we did was not reality TV. We, we, we, we prefer to call it documentary TV, is what we did for two episodes. So, I, I think the word has finally gotten out what the correct terminology is, but just in case, let me educate you on that. terminology, as you may know, evolves in different groups. So in the African American community, my mother, who was raised in the south in 30s and 40s was told to call that com, that population something. That I'm not even comfortable speaking, but that's what they were called. And well they were called Negros, not the other one, Negros. And you know, I think when I came around to school in the 70s, we were told no, the word is black, and I've used the word black. And now when I use the term black, I'm told, oh no, it's African-American. But then it gets even more confusing cause I have some African-American friends that say, I wasn't born in Africa, I'm not African-American, I'm black. So, there's a lot of confusion around that, and then not to mention what the rap stars are doing with the terminology. So, the terminology. When, when Little People of America was first formed in 1957, the name was actually Midgets of America. It was primarily a venue for entertain, entertainers. and they kind of made light of the union, for lack of a better word. Well then slowly, educated, serious people started joining the group. And one of the first tasks I had, was to get rid of the word midget. Now what's wrong with the word midget, for me and many others, it conjures up the image of vaudeville, when they were called midget performers. And they would go around, much like a travelling circus. And they would get on stage. And you would see, a little person like myself, with a cigar hanging out of their mouth, and a diaper on. Mm hm. And making total fools of themselves. So when I hear the word midget, that's what I conjure up in my mind, as do, many in our organizations. So I think the word is finally dying. Mm-hm. occasionally it will be used, In hockey leagues, it's still used up in Canada, a, a, signifying the younger kids I think, and and I, I think the little people group up there has been really working on that. so the terminology that I'm comfortable with, long-winded answer, is I'm comfortable with little person and I'm comfortable with dwarf, because that's what I was raised with. Now, that's not to say that my children, and they're okay with that too, but maybe my grandchildren will have come up with a new term. Right. Actually, and, and I probably won't include what I'm about to say, but you made me think of it, and it's just so amazing to make the connection that, y'know, I think in the, as far as sexuality is concerned in the gay community. I mean the evolution of those, of the nomenclature of the name, and what people are comfortable with and, in one way I'm fascinated with, because it's a group identifier. And I honestly think people should, y'know, we should respect groups enough to call them what they want ot be called. You know, and I think in the gay community, you know, there are people who live and die by the word queer. you know, that's what they want to be called. They reclaimed it. There are other people who identify as gay. There are other people who identify, you know, you know I, I, in several different ways. And the community argues about it all the time. You know, internally you know, like, no we shouldn't use this word, or we shouldn't use that word. And then that can even be confusing for people in the outside looking in cause then they're like well. What do we do? What do we do? so it, it's amazing to parallels there between. That's that book that I want you to read. Yeah, I'm definitely going to check that out. So I have an adorable story to tell of my 15 year old who. I need to remind myself is indeed a really great kid because sometimes I, I forget that. He was a, a coach this summer for summer sports camp, he's very, very athletically minded and unfortunately, do to being only four feet tall. is not athletically bodied. Now, put him amongst other little people and he's going to bring home the gold medals. But, when the population is one in 20000, that's just not going to happen on a daily, weekly, it happens on an annual basis. So next week, we're going to the world games for little people, and I suspect that my 15 year old will be setting records in all of the different events that he is going to be doing. So exciting. So he, with my urging, took this job over the summer where he was a coach in training with a third party sports camp. And every day, I would say, okay, you gotta give me one story, you know, based on the day, tell me one little thing that happened. And one of these days, he came home, he says, well, something interesting happened today. So I stopped everything I was doing, so I could listen. But you can't ask too many questions, because then he closes up again. He says, somebody asked what time it was, and I pulled out my cell phone. And the kid said, what? You have a cell phone? That's not fair. You're only eight. And Ben said, no I'm about to be 16, and the kid said, oh, that's right you're a midget. And Ben said, [SOUND] well actually Sammy, I'm, I'm not a midget. Midgets a really mean word, I would rather you call me a dwarf. Or a little person but you know what, Sammy? You met me two days ago so you should be calling me Ben. What a great answer. And I said, Ben, was there an audience for that discussion? He said nope, there was just me and Sammy. And I said, Ben, some'ing tells me, that when they all went home, Sammy got into the car and told his mother about the whole conversation. And Ben said oh, mother, pfft. The next day, Sammy brought Ben a card that was handwritten in cursive about how great it was to have Ben as his coach, and that he would never use the M-word ever again. What is, what is driving a car like? I mean do you, I mean, do you have any, like, do you have to have something? What is driving your car like? Well I know, but I'm asking like, foot pedals though. Like, is that? I do. Okay. I have we have extension pedals. Oh okay. That bolt on to the [INAUDIBLE] that you use. There are steel bars With, you know, C clamps and all that hardware that I don't know what it's called. Takes about 45 minutes to put them on. Not much fun. takes about 10 minutes to take them off. So I could drive your car if I brought my extra set of extension pedals and I was totally limber and could fold myself up [LAUGH] into a small little ball and be upside-down with my, hex wrenches and all that sort of stuff. And if you wanted to drive my car, no problem, you would just have to take them off, and I would ask you very nicely to put them back on when you were done. So, when I was going down to Los Angeles to interview during college, with the you know, the film industry, I rented a car in Burbank, and I put them on myself in my business suit. And proceeded to get on the five in Burbank, and about 300 yards between, ahead of the intersection of the five and the ten, my gas pedal falls off. And I have nowhere to go. Except for the shoulder that really wasn't a shoulder. And I had to drift, because there was no gas. So there was not enough room on the shoulder to open the driver's door for somebody to come help me. So, Eventually, a Latino guy pulls over, and between his limited English. My limited Spanish. He offered to help. But he had to get into this rental car and drive it with me in it. And drive it off of this freeway. In order to do it. So I was saying a few prayers at that point, and everything was fine. He fixed it and he followed me, he asked if he could follow me to where I was going to make sure I got there. That was the last time I ever put extension pedals on a rental car. Soon after that, the, I don't know if it was Reagan or Bush, But one of them did something very nice, called the Americans with Disabilities Act. And that means, now, that, as long as I give my rental car company 24 hours notice, they have to have a car waiting for me with hand controls. So I just did it today as a matter of fact for my trip next week, and doesn't cost me any extra. I get to walk right off that airplane into my rental car just like you do. I had to get comfortable with driving with hand controls, and it's hard. legal or not, I used to, still maybe do use my cell phone a little bit when I'm driving. And you can't do that with hand controls because one hand is always on the steering wheel. And the other hand is on the mechanism that acts as your gas and brake. I want you to, if you can, list for me, if you can, quickly, some advantages. Other advantages. We sort of, we keep getting sidetracked [INAUDIBLE]. Well, a spotlight was the hybrid. Okay? So let's work up from the, the, the spotlight thing. people remember me, that's kind of the spotlight, too. But if I want to jog somebody's memory over the phone. And I'll say, hey, this is Ginny Foos, your little customer. Oh yes, how are you? [LAUGH] So I get the information quicker. It's an identifier. Yeah. When I get tickets to a show. I'm kind of stretching it a little bit because I just identified the fact that you and I are sitting about the same height. But, if somebody like really tall sits in front of me, I can't enjoy the show. If people stand up, like they do in a concert, forget it, I can't see anything. So I explain this. Now what's interesting is, is that, Ticketmaster, when they say disabled seating, they're really thinking about wheelchairs. Mm-hm. Because it's all about numbers. I mean the same thing with the Americans with Disability Act. The, the architectural standards that were set were for people in wheelchairs. So if I were to stand up right now next to you, you and I would be about the same height, but you've got long arms that I don't. So ATM slides, gas station slides, you know all of that is meant for you in the wheelchair. Mm-hmm. They're like three inches too tall for me. It's beginning to change a bit. I'm having an easier time with the brand new gas pumps. I think there's been enough yelling and screaming from the dwarf population. And, and we've become more of an advocacy group. Our current president is awesome and totally into advocacy. So maybe his efforts are paying off. Uh-huh. But, so, so, long story short. I tend to ramble. the tickets, I can say I need good tickets, and I get good tickets. Right. so that's an advantage. we went camping recently, and I was able to stand up in my tent and change my clothes, whereas the average size friends could not. Definitely encounter that problem before. Yeah. Anything. What about airplanes? Oh, yes. Airplane travel is, I would argue, more comfortable for me but the difference is is that my feet are dangling. Look at right now and yours are not. So mine are going to maybe go to sleep, but when I've gone on a long flight, if there happens to be an empty seat next to mine, I can actually lay down. [LAUGH] The flight attendants don't like it much, but I can. If, I would do the exact same thing! okay. let's, I want to pivot and ask two, we're going to try to wrap up here, and I'll ask two different questions. I'm going to ask two different kinds of questions. first, I'm going to go with is, knowing everything you know now as yourself and with the current technologies even maybe thinking about the possible advances in technologies that we'll have in the future. in your life time or even possibly beyond that. Would you change, would you choose to be different? And, sort of variation of that, you know, if you could choose this for your children. how would you? I think, like, my first answer is, we call it the magic pill. You know, if you had been able to take a magic pill to not be a dwarf. And I think my response to that magic pill would have been different depending on what decade of my life you were asking about. I would most likely have taken that magic pill in middle school and probably high school. Prior to that, I don't think I really care, I was just a kid I've never faced outright discrimination in my job [INAUDIBLE]. So I think that magic pill may have been taken between middle and high school but after that you kind of get awfully comfortable in your skin. So. I often ask the question when I'm teaching. And by the way, every time I go into a new classroom as a substitute teacher. I almost have to address this. What's funny is when I'm, if I'm teaching, a primary grade, up to, like, second grade. The conversation lasts about two minutes. And then they all want to tell me about their dog, or something. If I go into high school, it, they can milk it for a good 45 minutes. And then I get into a little bit of trouble. because I don't do what I'm s, there to do. And I'm not quite sure if they're milking it because they would prefer to talk about this and try to, you know, pull the wool over my eyes, and not do the work that the teacher has left for them, or if they're genuinely interested. I'd like to believe it's, it's a combination of those two things. But the question I posed to them is, do you think it's harder to be born disabled or to become disabled later on in your life. And the people that are really [UNKNOWN] and thinking have actually, it blows my mind, when they give me the answer that I am looking for which is this. Most definitely it's harder to become disabled because something has been taken away from you. With the exception, perhaps, of being blind or deaf. Because if you become blind later in life, you know what things look like. So you can reference that when you can no longer see them. When, if you become deaf later in life, you've learned how to talk. You can talk, and I just, I just want to kiss them when they give that answer because they truly are thinking about it. And so when I think about our soldiers that come home, disabled. I really feel for them. Especially soldiers who were big, strong, buff guys and girls. And they no longer are. And I, and I feel for them. And I'm so proud of them when they turn that around and they become the wounded warriors. Or the wheelchair rugby team or something that they're putting that energy in, they're channeling it into a different realm, a positive realm. so let's end with, with one question on, You know for, for someone it's it sounds like you know, being a little person can have its challenges, probably like most traits, regardless of what the specific trait is. Going through middle school can always be rough and everybody's at different stages in their life. When, if you could give a message to. You know, young people in particular but anybody who feels different specifically. It could be something so obvious like something like stature. It could be something hidden. you know. What, what do you say to people who have their own struggles. And particularly with your perspective. How, how would you tell them to. To what's the best way to handle their struggle? This is probably trademark, but it does get better. It's a catchy phrase, but it's so true. So, in general if, if you can just get through middle school, and find some friends. And high school. And high school. And you live in a progressive area like the bay area. Because I think that if you, if you live in a sheltered, less educated, conservative area, you're going to meet more obstacles. Great. I think that does it for us right now. Thank you so much. Thank you. I appreciate it. Hi I'm Geoff Donaker. I live here in the Bay Area, California Bay area and I have red-green color blindness. Okay, so red-green color blindness, we, you know, just sort of heard about that for the first time. And in the course and we're learning a bit more about the inheritance patterns. What is red green color blindness? What does it mean to be red green color blind? Well to me what it means is that I often mix up colors that have red in them. And so in particular I mix up reds and browns and sometimes browns and greens because I'm not seeing the red correctly in those. Sometimes it can even show up in the form of blues and purples. I'm sort of seeing them all at about the same. And in fact you know they may look different to other people. So, would it be accurate in saying. Just, they kind of look like darker colors or is it something about the shade, maybe? I'm not really sure. I think that the way to think about it you know, for me is that sometimes what you may be seeing as, as the red in a particular orange for instance. To me I'm not seeing the red the same way you are. because I'm seeing it maybe like a dark yellow. and so, I still, certainly see the world in a vibrant colorful way and it's so like black and white or anything like that. I just see it differently than everybody else who doesn't see it in red-green color. It's such a great like literal and metaphorical statement. I think a lot of people do go through life thinking you know the assumption, this is the color vision, this is the vision I have. But not everybody literally sees the world in the same spectrum. That's right. what when did you first eh, know that you had red green color blindness? You know I don't really remember. It was when I was a really young child, my uncle had been red green colorblind. And then actually my mom's uncle as well so I think I inherited it from her side. And so when I was a little kid she recognized that I might be color blind or have this propensity. And so she had me tested at you know, one of the eye doctors with looking at the, the those little bubble charts with colors that you may remember having taken at some point. Sure and for anybody who may not be familiar with those. What, can, can you describe that bubble chart a little more? Sure it's, a basically a lot of little dots and those dots typically show some sort of a picture or character or letter. that a red green colored blind person may not be able to pick out the particular picture or letter that everybody else. You know, what it pops out. So for instance, back to my yellow orange analogy. you know you may have two different shades of orange in there that to you look really obviously different and to me look actually about the same. So I'm not seeing that letter that's popping out of the picture and you are. Mm-hm. There are actually other versions that go the other way. Where you know it looks really stark to the red green color blind person. And to the not red green color blind person it actually looks you know, camouflage. and so those tests you know make it pretty easy for the eye doctor to pick out whose color blind and whose not. So you were very young when, when you, your I guess your mother found this out. That's right. And did it I mean was it a? Did it cause any issue? I mean it was like okay, we knew this was a possibility and now what kind of, if anything, was there to do at that point? Not really much. you know, as I say her brother and uncle had had it and so she was sort of aware of it. And you know it, it's useful to know that you see the world in different colors than everybody else. [LAUGH] Just so you can be prepared and obviously that's not that I'm just aware of today, too. So that I don't say, you know, this is definitely purple to people if they if I realize, I go oh my gosh it might actually be blue and you know others are saying it is blue. Nice, it does bring that interesting perspective though, that, the fact that you put it in that context. You know, you don't want to speak with certainty that this is this color because you're like it may not be right. But what is quote unquote right is just what the majority of other people see. I mean, you could argue that if more people had solved the spectrum as a red-green color blind person the way we describe that, you know. Then that would be purple I guess. Agreed, agreed. [LAUGH] so as you've grown up, and even know as an adult. How does breaking color blindness breaking affects your daily life? Do you have, what kind of special, if anything sort of interactions you have to go through to accommodate? You know not much when I close shop, you know, online certainly helps these day because the colors are all labelled. you know when I go clothes shopping in a store. I'll often ask the retail person just a sanity check. What color is this? If it's blue I'm generally pretty sure I'm okay. Or black or things like that. but if I'm getting something that's in the green spectrum. You know I'll want a sanity check that it's what I think it is and it's not some version of orange. Or something that people are going to comment on. Mm-hm. So that's one way, you know, another way is just periodically things that look camouflaged to me won't be camouflaged to other people. So for instance, you know, my kids the other day were playing with an orange ball in the yard. And to me when they it dropped in the grass it was almost camouflaged in the grass. And they new, they thought that was the funniest thing in the world, because to them it's orange just totally popping off the lawn. Right, right. So, you'd actually have to sort of keep track of where it is to. A little bit. You know, again, if it's right by me, of course, I could see it, but [INAUDIBLE]. I'm going to back up a little bit and talk about generalities. I mean, just as you as Jeff Donaker, what are the what are your kind of hobbies? What kind of things do you do for fun in general? Well, I've got two young kids who are pretty into sports at this point. And you know certainly helping them with school and their sports they like to play baseball and soccer. And just generally run around like little boys do. So other than work, what I tend to with my spare time is kind of hang out with my family. And run around playing sports with them and doing things like that. Yeah, I've heard that kids can be a full-time job but a full-time play job too. Indeed, it's a little of both. A labor of love. were you did you have to get your your, you said you have two sons? Yeah. Did you ,were you worried about having, them having red-green color blindness too, at all? We didn't really think about it. I had always assumed based on our family history that had come through my mom's side of the family. And, as a result given my wife doesn't have any history of color blindness on her side of the family. We sort of assumed that our kids weren't, would not be colorblind. And then they haven't been. they haven't you know indicated any color blindness and so we haven't bothered to follow up. Sure, you know we've talked about a lot of other traits in our course like lactose intolerance. Some some traits that are just sort of, you know, every day but people may interact with differently. Some people assume, you know everyone is may be lactose tolerant or that everyone can see you know all colors the way they do in certain ways. how have, do people in general, friends, strangers respond to anybody, news of someone being. Hey guys can you wait a second I'm not sure about this. How do people respond to this particular trait of red-green color blindness. I would say that, you know, probably about half of people that I interact with already know somebody closely who is red-green colorblind. So it's no news to them and they'll just say, oh yeah, my brother is also or something of that nature. And then the other half, it's like a great party trick. So the first time they hear that you're red-green color blind, what they want to do is walk around the room going, what color's this? What color's this? What color's this? [LAUGH]. You know which is fun for about 30 seconds [LAUGH]. Then you're kind of ready to move on but that's been my general. Experience over the years. Yeah, I can imagine that's good for [LAUGH] like the first two times. Right. [LAUGH] You actually, one thing that occurred to me in terms of day-to-day life is, sometimes LCD projectors and things of that nature. The reds in those don't show up very well. And so that's kind of another way in, you know, kind of modern life, where sometimes. Things that are real obvious to the other people in the [INAUDIBLE] kind of like, well, I don't see that at all because of the particular hues that were [INAUDIBLE]. It's interesting you say that, I am from a research science background. And there's a particular kind of experiment for lack of a better word, called a microarray that you can do. And when you get the results back, they color code all of the results and it's a spectrum from red to green and yellow. It goes from like red to yellow to black to yellow to green. And it's supposed to give you, it's essentially a heat map and of some of sorts. And there was eventually, finally you know, people spoke up who were regular color blind. And said, guys change we please change this to like blue yellow so that we can look at the data too? Yeah, that's right. If you're ever doing those kind of charts, if you can make the red blue or the green blue or something. Like that, just pick one of them so it doesn't go from green to yellow to red. Exactly. Have you ever not been able to participate in something or anything because of the color blindness or anything like that. Or have you pretty much always been able to find some work around if it was an issue, you could you know it was always doable? Yeah, I mean as a general statement it's really never been a big deal. I certainly remember a couple times as a kid where I felt a little left out or picked on during art projects at school. Where you know, inevitably I'd pick the wrong color. You were supposed to do something that was brown and I picked green or something of that nature and the other kids would tease me. You know I really remember maybe two or three instances. But you certainly work around it and somebody points you to the right color and you keep moving. So never been a big deal by any means but yeah, there's certainly a little bit of that. Like you and me we're a little bit different from the way everybody else is seeing it. Sure. in that same vein, I mean, it seems like a follow-up question that I've asked lots of different people about their various traits. Would you want to change this about yourself or would you not? you know, that's an interesting questions. I think now in my life, no, I don't think I'd bother. I guess if I had it all to do over in the spirit of what you're, you guys are talking about out. Sure, yeah, I'd probably rather see the world in the same color hues and that everybody else does. Mm-hm. Just, you know, kind of one more thing. Makes things a little bit easier. Mm-hm. Are there any advantages to seeing colors differently? yeah, the main one at this point is really the party trick that we talked about. [laughs] but. Making, making friends quickly. Right, right. But ostensibly in and earlier time. because there are some forms of camouflage that look like camouflage to, you know, the normal folk but don't to me, extensively during World War II. And kind of the previous era, red-green color blind people could be pilots because they could actually spot the camouflage from, you know, the army troops much more easily than you know a typical person's eyesight could. So that's a legend that I've heard in the years. never been relevant in my life. You know I guess another funny way in which it shows up for me is things like it's very easy for me to take the Christmas tree lights on and off the tree every year. Because the wires actually really pop out for me and to everybody else ostensibly they're totally blended in with the tree. Oh yeah, it's totally true, I normally have trouble unlike searching the branch trying to like just yank and pull. Happy to come over to your place. [LAUGH]. I appreciate the offer I might take you up on that. so we will finish up here. I want to ask you one more question, if like if someone is watching this. And you know, there are like oh, you know, I wonder if I am color blind. Or maybe someone's recently found out they are, someone they know is. What advice would you give to somebody who may have recently find out that, you know, they are red green color blind? And of course there are other kinds of color blindness too. what advice would you give to them? you know, I guess, first point would simply be, it's not that big a deal. So you know roll with it and enjoy the fact that you're seeing the world in a slightly different color hue than everybody else is. and then the other one would be yeah, when your picking clothes. Ask a friend who there who knows or a sales associate at the store just so you know what you're buying. [LAUGH] Sure well, thanks Geoff for joining us. Thanks Mat and good luck to everybody out there Hi, I'm Kagure Kabue. I'm from Kenya, originally, but I live in San Francisco now. I have darkly pigmented skin, and I lived in an area that had a high prevalence for sickle-cell anemia. Well, we're really happy that you are interviewing with us for, for the class today. you get to talk to us about two traits in two different lessons for us and one of the first traits we learned about is skin pigmentation. And that the idea that everyone originally, all humans had darkly pigmented skin and that then as we migrated out of Africa, we went to various locations. And because we needed more sunlight in our skin, and melanin was keeping it out, that many people started getting mutations that made them lose melanin pigment in their skin. Mm-hm. so, the i, you know, the fact that you're from Kenya, right brings us back to our ancestral origins. all humans originated originally in Africa, and there are some great fossils, amazing fossils, in Kenya, in particular and so a lot of human history, really originated in, in sort of that region. I just wanted, can you tell us a little bit about Kenya for those of us who never visited or am sorry, should say, for anybody whose never been to Kenya, what's Kenya like, is it hot, is it. Well, it depends on the region, and so if you're further down at the coast, well first of all Kenya's in East Africa and it's right under the horn of Africa, so under Somalia and above Tanzania. And we have the Indian Ocean to our East so, if you're closer to the coast, it's much hotter, it's just hot at the coast, especially in January. and we're right on the equator, the country is actually almost split in half, by the line, equator line. And if you live up in the highlands, like I do, which is on the slopes of Mount Kenya, the temperature doesn't vary much, so it will only be a few degrees celsius different from morning to evening. Mm-hm. And so you can wear a sweater or not if you want, or not. Mm-hm. And it, it's beautiful. You should check out the Kenyan government web site for more information, lots of [LAUGH] Lions and. Ooh, lions? Yeah. So if you don't live on the slope, if you actually live in, I guess closer to the coast maybe. Mm-hm. how hot does it get there? I couldn't tell you off the top of my head but, you know, especially with the conversion rates but, it gets hot enough that you should probably just stay indoors. [LAUGH] Stay indoors? [LAUGH] Yeah, don't go outside. and what about the scenery? You, you moved to San Francisco, is is it more beautiful in San Francisco or in Kenya? Each place has it's, you know, it's attractions and some things are more beautiful here than they are back home and vice versa. Mm hmm But, in general, it's just different. It's hard to compare the two because it's so different. Right. San Francisco is a city and it has it's appeal in that way, and where I grew up I lived in a town that had a pineapple plantation and that had its charm as well, as well as coffee and waterfalls and all these things. So it's just different. Yeah, do you get to go back and visit? Sometimes. Yeah. I try and go back once a year, but you know, to get braces, airlines. I was about to say. Yeah. It's expensive but I'm sure you're family loves that. Yeah. Yeah. [LAUGH] And I like it too. Right. so, you know, there, there's no stepping around sort of the the, the obvious issue that people in different continents on the globe have different colored skin and that is caused by the different amounts of melanin that they have deposited by melanocytes into the, the skin itself. so give us some idea, you know, in Kenya are most people, do they have dark skin, do you they have light skin? I would say most people have dark skin because it, I guess it's, is it a sliding scale, what's dark skin and what's not dark skin? But most people would probably on the and where your skin is considered dark. Mm-hm. And that's just how I grew up with everybody around me looking like I did with slight variations in shade. Mm-hm. But pretty much. You know, that's interesting that you put it like that I mean, you know, I'm someone who's lightly pigmented and, and I don't remember exactly when I noticed, like people, I grew up in an area that was probably about 50%-ish, sort of like, either you where either lightly pigmented or you were darkly pigmented. And I remember I was probably, I don't know, middle school when I started realizing, sort of, oh, you know, we don't have the same color skin. You know when you grow up in an area where most people have the same color skin. Do you, is there certain age that you're sort of notice differences you know, with other people either you know, where you were living or even outside where you were living. Well, I had, the advantage or disadvantage of going to a, an international school when I was younger, and so there were a lot of Europeans or people who were both European and African descent. And, so, I don't know when I first realized a difference. I don't remember, except maybe when I came here and the absolute opposite was happening where I was suddenly the minority. Whereas, where I grew up people with lighter skin pigmentation were the minority. And so, I don't know, I think that was my first time to actually, you know, realize, it when I moved here in 2008. That, oh my goodness, this plane is full of people who do not like me. And... So you moved from a place where you were the majority to a place where you were in the minority and I think, historically speaking, you know? There's a lot of interesting questions in the nexus of, you know just the human condition, and how people treated others with different skin colors over time, is you know have many courses about that. But in Kenya in particular, is there any I mean how do people think of Europeans, let's say or in generally people with lightly colored skin overall historically? What, what are the? How do people put that into the context? How do people treat people with different color skins and think about that in the context of, history? Well, historically Kenya was colonized by Europeans, last lot being the British. Mm-hm. And so, there is something to say about a European coming back into the country. I'm not sure I can't speak for all generations and all people, but there are certain attitudes that prevail and some which are more dominant in certain generations than in others; for example, you'll have people who believe that, a European or someone with lighter skin pigmentation is. Mm hm Meant to be in charge. Mm-hm. Because of that history of colonization, and then there's the other end of that attitude, where someone else might think to themselves, I don't want to see someone who looks like that in charge because of the history. Mm-hm. And all the bad things that may have been associated with the colonization. And then there's people outside of the country who look to a country like Kenya and say, we need a European or an outside force to act as the face of the country to show that it can be run well. Because you know there's histories of violence and corruption and all these other things in Africa in general. And so there's, there's different attitudes, and then I hope, I'd, I'd hope to say that with the younger generation it doesn't matter as much. Mm-hm although it's still something that you would notice. Mm-hm And an education from another country is usually considered something of value. Mm-hm. but that, that may not be a skin pigmentation thing. Mm-hm. For example myself getting an education here and then going back there would hopefully give me a leg up and that's the idea behind it. Mm-hm. But then there's also the idea of myself and someone with lighter skin pigmentation of European descent, having the same education or the same exact background as I did, growing up in Kenya, coming here, going back there. It's like, who would get the job and why? Mm-hm. And in that case I, there's the idea of this person with lighter skin pigmentation might get that job that I'm vying for, because they would act as a better face to someone outside the country who might look in and see oh, we can use this person to represent what we want. I see. Wow, that's complicated. But that's just one of the things that could happen, there's so many, attitudes and so. Right. Many other things that could or could not happen. Right. It seems that you know skin color's such an easy trade for people to latch on to, you know. Right. They associate lots of other things with it. historically I think this is like it's always been true Do you think that in general and you can speak from your perspective growing up in Kenya or even from your experiences in San Francisco. Do you think you know your generation or the current generations perspective on skin color is different from past generations in a, in a, in a better or worse way? I think its, I think it's better, but it's also very complicated because there's that, sort of, love hate relationship that comes with a, a, country or a people who've been, enslaved, or colonized. Where you end up either identifying, because you, identify, you, you connect those two traits, you'll connect the, the wealth, and the success to the skin pigmentation. And so, I hope to think that in a reverse situation, where skin pigmentation, someone with darker skin pigmentation had colonized a country. Mm-hm. That was full of like, an African person had gone, Shaka Zulu went to, I don't know, Britain or something and colonized them. Mm-hm. That the opposite would happen, and everyone would be outside trying to tan. [LAUGH]. And, I know, [LAUGH], I don't know if that would happen but, you know? I like to think that that's how this is broken down, it's not because one is better or worse than the other. It's just, historically, there has been a correlation or a connection between these two and so people have tend to identify one with success and one with failure. It just happens that that's how it went down at this period in history. I really like that thought experiment. That's a really good thought experiment to do. Right. What's, so, even within Kenya, you know growing up, you said most people are, have darker skin. You know, do people still distinguish, obviously you said too it's a spectrum, I mean, do people still distinguish culturally, you know, between a really darker skinned person versus a maybe not as dark skinned person? Right. Well, there are, people do because we have many tribes in Kenya and certain tribes will have certain features that, that are more prevalent in their tribe. And if a certain tribe has more dark, darker, people who are darker, a lot more people who are, have darker skin pigmentation, then when you see someone else who has that same coloring, you'd think to yourself,oh, they must be from that tribe." I see. And so, that's how, which isn't always the case. You can sometimes, you know, want to try and find someone who's lighter or darker than you'd expect them to be. Sure. But in general people will use their signifiers to categorize others. That's actually used as an identifier for for purposes. Yeah. even though there aren't as, you know, There's not as big a difference in the spectrum between let's say me and you on the color or pigmentation spectrum. we could be treated very differently as you said you know, by different people and different cultures or different backgrounds just because of that. Do people treat people differently in Kenya too, even though, maybe there's not as much of a difference in skin color or is there still that kind of I guess we should say discrimination that happens even based on more subtle changes? I would, yes. Sort of. It's not blatant. I don't think it would be discrimination, I think it would be because certain people associate these traits with positive things or negative things. And so, if I personally thought to myself, oh, that person has all these identifiers, they have lighter skin, pigmentation. They have hair that's a little bit straighter then I think to myself, oh they must be from the North Eastern part of Kenya because they, they have Somali blood in them or something like that. Mm-hm. And then, then from there after, having identified them with a certain tribe or a certain group of people then, personally what do I think of those people. Mm-hm. And so if I thought to myself, oh I love Somali people, then I would try and make friends with that person. Mm-hm. [LAUGH] Versus someone else was like, oh I can't stand them and then you know, whatever else happens from there on. [LAUGH] So I don't, it, at that point it depends on what the attitude is. Mm hmm Of the person, or of the people in a certain area towards others at that point in time. Sure, and actually that's really interesting that you say it like that, I mean when you moved to San Francisco, and you see, you know? Okay, now your part of a, a minority group and, Do people, you know, use skin color in the same way, as far as signifiers, in, in the San Francisco area? I mean, you know? In the same way that you say, I mean. Where you're from, you can use it as, like, an indicator of, you know? Maybe, what region an individual's from. Do you find that people do the same thing in San Fransico, or do they, or not? I'm surprisingly oblivious to it. [LAUGH] Like, because I think I've grown up being used to not having to think about whether I was the only person to look the way I look in a room. I tend to do the same thing here, I'll walk in somewhere and think to myself, oh why are they looking at me? I must have something in my hair. [LAUGH] Something in my teeth, that I should brushed my teeth well at the house. Right. I don't think to myself, oh my godness, I'm the only person in here that has darker skin pigmentation. Yeah. And so it takes me awhile, and so I can't I don't know. I have no idea. Yeah Someone else would have to watch. Do you think of skin pigmentation or skin color as a positive or a negative trait? I don't think of skin pigmentation as a negative or a positive thing, it does have its advantages in some situations. So, if you have darker skin pigmentation you've got into the sun a lot more then someone who doesn't then you're less likely to get cancer, skin cancer. Do you think of skin color, skin pigmentation is a positive or a negative trait in anyway? I think skin color can have positives, I don't think of it as negative or positive, specifically. Mm hm, sure. But I do know that, when I go out in the sun, I have the advantage of not burning or, I know that I'm less likely to get skin cancer than someone with lighter skin pigmentation. Mm hm. But on the other side, I do know that, it, you do need the sun in order for your body to produce vitamin D. Mm-hm. And in that case, if you have a higher skin, if you have darker skin pigmentation. Mm-hm. Then, you're less, you're more likely to not have the ability to produce enough vitamin D. Right, exactly, and I know that there are some people who actually have to take vitamin D supplements, or they have to actually be told to go out into the sun more. Mm hmm. To get enough sunlight. Mm hmm. so that they can make enough vitamin D and that's even true for, for light skinned people too sometimes who, if you don't get out in the sun enough you know I believe even on ships when people crossed the Atlantic in the 15, 1600s, that, that was the thing right. They stayed if, if you didn't get enough sunlight, they call it scurvy, right? It's a vitamin D deficiency. Right. And really, the solution is just get out in the sun more. Mm-hm. What are there any other, is there any other positive or negative aspect, do you think, sorry, I should say this. Do you think other people look at skin color or skin pigmentation as a positive or negative trait? Maybe not so much from the biological side, but from even a social perspective? Yeah, definitely. There are people who, who, there are people who think that their skin pigmentation is a positive thing. Mm hm. Or a negative thing. Whereas, if you're ostracised, or you're discriminated against, for the color of your skin, then you might to start to think that it's a negative thing. Mm hm. Where is if it's helping you in life in general, then you'll think it's a positive thing. So depending on whether you know if I'm making it in life, so to speak because of the color of my skin, then I'm going to be very happy with my skin pigmentation. Versus if, it's the thing that's causing other people to react negatively towards me and that's a social thing. Then I'm going to start to hate the color of my skin, which is terrible because it's, it's a genetic trait that has nothing to do with who I am on the inner inside. So. Yeah. I, I completely understand that. Right. So as you mentioned, the darkly pigmented people are way less likely to get skin cancer, I think the number is, like, they're, If you have lighter skin, you're 500 times more likely to get skin cancer. Do you know anyone from Kenya who had skin cancer at all? Just trying to see if, reality bears out those statistics. I don't, I don't personally know anyone. Mm-hm. Is that ever a concern? Did, did they, I don't know if they have like, you know, in the United States, you know we have these people who are like, oh, put sunscreen on go outside put sunscreen on make sure you put sunscreen on. Do people say that in Kenya? No. I don't hear that too much. sunscreen is also expensive. [LAUGH] So. True. I think if it was. I think if people, there were more cases of skin cancer, the cost would not be an issue. Mm-hm. But, people just think to themselves, I my grandmother lived without it, my mother lived without it, I'll be fine without it probably. Mm-hm. In Kenya, is sickle cell anemia a common trait? I don't know how common it is, but I do know of people who've had it, or who have it. Yeah, and what are the symptoms of sickle cell anemia, or what was it like for those people that you know of who, who've had it? It was, something I didn't know was happening until they told me themselves. Mm-hm. with one person I always thought to myself that she looked a little sickly sometimes but I just thought that maybe she had a cold. Mm-hm. But, turns out that she had, or has sickle cell anemia. Mm-hm, is it, is it a big deal? I mean, does it seriously affect their lives? I'm not sure. I'm not sure if it does. I would imagine it does, but she's very private with it, and so I don't know how much it affected her. All in all, she seemed to function normally. You know, she would show up to class, and go through everything that we would go through and then I'd think to myself, oh, she's sick again? Mm-hm. Is the new one. no one in your family, though, has ever been affected by sickle cell anemia? No. That you know of. No, not in family. Do you know if you're a carrier for sickle cell anemia? I do know that, and I'm not. That's great. does that factor into any people's decisions about, you know, children? Do people worry about that having sickle cell anemia? I would imagine that in a family where it was common where it had been running through the family that they might consider it. But I've never heard of people getting that test because with some people they know it's not. It's more common in some tribes than it is in others. Mm-hm. And so I think in a tribe like mine where it rarely happens, I don't see why, I don't think they'd factor in sickle-cell anemia or whether they were carriers or not into who they would marry. Do you know of, the treatment for sickle cell anemia, I mean, for people who have it in Kenya, is it generally accessible, I mean is it, do people know about it, is it something that's able to be treated in general for most people? So, in a country like Kenya with a rural population that may be less literate. Mm-hm. They would be less likely to know about treatment options than a population that was more urban or more literate. Mm-hm. Not necessarily the same thing, but more literate. Mm-hm. They would know more and would have access to treatment, so it depends on the region as well. Mm-hm. Kagure, why is sickle-cell anemia en, endemic to regions like Kenya in, in Africa. I think it's something that developed in order to I think it's something that developed as your, your body's response, or our body's response to a fight or stave off for malaria. Say say just say to resistant to malaria. It exists. Well it exists. It's higher on the region because it also provides some resistance to malaria. Okay. So it's higher in the region because it provides resistance, some resistance to malaria. So, malaria is a common, sickness. Yes, definitely. Definitely. I've had malaria, everyone else in my family has had malaria too, so. Really? What's it like to have malaria? you, malaria is like the flu. I've never had the flu, but from what people describe the flu as, you get dizzy, you get nauseous, you get achy joints. when I had malaria, I remember being very dizzy, dizzy enough that the floor seemed very far away and like it was teetering. And you're just kind of out of it, you get a fever, the usual. And how does the, I mean how does malaria spread. We'll wrap up by our conversation of skin pigmentation, and what I want to do is just give you an opportunity to, to tell us anything you might want to share, you know a lot of people have, a lot of people think differently about skin color. Some people it's a big deal, other people it's not a big deal. If you could give advice or just say anything speaking to that idea in people about whether or not skin color's a big deal or not. what would you say or what advice would you give? I think the advice I'd give is that it shouldn't matter. It would be naive of me to say that you should ignore it because others are not ignoring it, and so you should be aware of how others will treat you but all in all it doesn't, it shouldn't change who, it doesn't change who you are on the inside, it's. A genetic trait that simply dictates what the color of your skin, and so, after that, it may have it's biological advantages or disadvantages. But in the end, it doesn't, it doesn't, your skin color is not your ethnicity, it isn't your race. Race is a social construct and so, it doesn't change who you are on the inside. It really shouldn't matter and it would be great to say that it doesn't matter, but to some it does. My advice would be to be you, be who you are. I mean, nobody, nobody cares to be who you are. I'm Carol Kushner. I'm from California. And I'm here representing being identified with the BRCA2 mutation. And I want to, I want to before we get into the BRCA2 mutation, I want to know a little bit more about you. I mean, you, you live in California now. Where, where you from originally? Well I was born in New York, raised in New Jersey, and went to college in New York and got married out east, and we moved to California in the late 70s. Okay. Wow, so you've been in California for a while now. Right. And what do you, what do you do for fun? What do you, what do you do in California? Well, I do pulaties, I bike, I hike. And I'm very interested in genealogy and family history. And do you know much about your family's background and where your family's from? Well, I know about up to as far as my grandparents. Eastern Europeans. And I've also worked on my daughter-in-law's family and they go back to the Mayflower. Oh wow. Wow you were able to trace back that far. Right. Wow, that's, that's pretty cool. and have you ever visited, do you feel special connection with family history? Have you visited Eastern Europe? and is that meaningful to you? Well actually it's on my list of places to go. we've been, we've traveled a lot, but we haven't been to eastern Europe. I see. Well, let's come back to this BCRA2 mutation. tell, can you tell us a little bit more what, what is the BRCA2 mutation that you have? And what does it mean? Well, I have the one mutation is that was tested and reported is 6174 dell T. And it is a pretty common mutation in Ashkenazi Jewish people. And an uncle of mine is also has the same mutation. And my cousin, his daughter. I see. So this appears to be a familial mutation that seems to be in other family members. Right, it is a familial mutation, but as I mentioned, it is common in Ashkenazi Jewish background. And what does having this mutation mean? Well, actually, maybe we should ask this in order. when did you find out you had the mutation? I found out in early 2010. Okay. And it was a surprise. I did the 23andMe genetic testing and the results came back and it was surprising. And what did they tell you it means? what, like you have this mutation, what does it mean what is for you? For an individual? Well, the risk of breast cancer is increased, compared to the general population. And the risk of ovarian cancer is increased. And do you know what those increased risks were, what those percentages were? Well, for the breast cancer risk, it's between 20 and 50% risk. Although I saw a higher number earlier when I looked recently. It seems like the risk, the number I saw change. And for ovarian cancer, the risk is much lower but the risk is higher than in the general population. Now you can also calculate the risk based on age. So compared to the general population the risk for breast cancer at my age of 70 is four, about 4.5 out of 100 compared to about 2.5 out of 100 for not, a woman at age 70, who does not have the BRCA2 mutation. I see. And what did you think about this whole, sort of probability issue? You know, the idea of a percentage, I mean, I think a lot of people think genetics is going to tell them, oh, I am or I am not going to have this trait. What was running through your mind? A lot. [LAUGH] I am married to a physicist who understands statistics, and he must have explained this to me half a dozen times, and all I could focus on was the high number. But of course as you get older, the risk it changes, it varies. Assuming that there are 100 people, 100 women with the BRCA mutation, and 50 have already, 50 out of 100 have already had breast cancer then, the statistics changed. That I can't really explain it but it is daunting to think that there's, you know, double the risk of someone else my age, even if it is a low number. Sure, I mean I can imagine it sounds like you discovered that okay there's a lot of math, there's a lot of research behind the numbers. But the numbers are still the numbers, and I imagine, you know, it has sort of an anxiety effect on, on an individual. Did you feel anxious or worried? And what did you end up doing? Did you, did you, did it change anything for you and did you take an action? Well, I was very anxious. And I called my doctor, he was away. I called another doctor and he was away. And I called a friend who works at one of the local hospitals. And I said, this is the situation. What do you recommend I do? And she gave me the name of a doctor. And it was confirmed. By the time I had that information, it was confirmed. By the doctor who had returned. So I went to see a breast oncologist and at a very large medical center. And at the same time she scheduled me to see a genetic counselor which is recommended when you, when you get this information it's recommended that you. speak to someone, and see someone who understands the genetics. so I did see this person, and the physician and the genetic counselor on the same day and she was, gave me a very thorough exam, and a very thorough explanation, there was no rush. And I was advised to consider strongly having my ovaries removed and to have twice a year breast exam and one time a year. A breast MRI and a breast mammogram. And I've followed up, I've already followed up two times. I see her twice a year and I've had the MRI and breast exam twice. Wow. You took a lot of action. I did. And this was all based on the advise and the the I should say the, the medical advise of a genetic counselor and your clinician? Right. Right. And the genetic counselor took a history of everyone in the family. mother, mothers, fathers, grandfathers and. It was interesting to, to find out my grand, my maternal grandmother died when my mother was five. So we're talking about 1920s. Mm-hm. And like I was always told my grandmother died of stomach cancer, and the genetic counselor brought up the possibility that she had had ovarian cancer. Course, we wouldn't know, and this was the 1920s. And that was what we, we heard. That she died of stomach cancer. But it could've been ovarian cancer. Wow. What what did this effect have on your anxiety about the information, about your sort of medical future. Oh, it made me very anxious. but I keep busy. I work. So, it's, it's something that's in the back of my mind, it's not invisible, but I took action. I had my ovaries removed, and it was a pretty simple procedure. everything they completely analyze all the slides and everything was clear so. For that, I am grateful, and I'm following up on the mammograms and exams. And so far, it's all good news. So far, so good. I'm glad to hear that. in this process, was it just a personal decision for you, or did you include family members in, in discussing it and trying to figure out what to do as well? Well I'll be married 50 years in. Congratulations. 2014. I'm very close with my husband and he and I discussed this and it just seemed like it was the right thing to do. Of course I read a lot. and I had family members who had breast cancer and ovarian cancer. And none of them are BRCA2 or any BRCA, for that matter. So, it wasn't as if I knew anybody that had this, was in this situation. Do you even can you tell us that, it sounds like you, you did a lot of reading and researching yourself, trying to learn about it. Do you know what the, the BRCA genes do in a cell or in the body? Well, if you have, you have a BRCA gene, and if you have a normal gene which regulates the, have a non-cancer cells will be working, then you wouldn't be subject to the risk of breast cancer, ovarian cancer. Based on just that BRCA gene. However, if you have the mutation, there is, as far as I understand it. There's, in my particular case, I'm missing the T. Mm-hm. And the whole, Gene shifts, the BRCA gene is shifting and there's a mutation. And so it's not operating correctly, is my best understanding. That's a pretty good understanding however the, the mutation in the resulting protein that doesn't work so well. it doesn't seem to lead to completely breast cancer, ovarian cancer in all people who have it, as you mentioned. what are some of the environmental things that a, that a clinician or genetic counselor talked to you about? The environmental components that, that may play a part in this? Well I was asked how much alcohol I drink and I said well I live in California. You know, I often have a glass of wine with dinner. And so its, they don't know, its not for certain but they're recommending not drinking too much alcohol. And as far as the environment goes, there was really nothing much to. That they discussed, but I, we eat healthy and I moderate my wine drinking. [LAUGH] It sounds like you lead a pretty healthy lifestyle, so that's good. I'm, I'm actually curious, I'm curious to know sort of there's this sort of personal feeling. And an idea of, you know, when you find out. Did anyone in your family have anxiety for you, as well. Or did, were other family members concerned? And did they interpret it the same way you did? Did they only listen to you for information? Did they look in other places? Well, a lot of people in my family. Took the 23andMe test. our sons, our two sons, my husband, because his mother had breast cancer, he took the test. our daughter-in-laws took the test. We asked an Uncle my paternal Uncle, to take the test and he was BRCA2 and his daughter took the test and she's BRCA2. So one of our son's is BRAC2. So they all, my sister took the test and she was negative. Forgot about my sister. And another cousin on my mother's side took the test. And she was negative also, but she found out she had some hearing loss. A, a gene that affected hearing, could affect hearing. She isn't affected, but her grandson, she found because of that, they identified that the grandson Mm-hm. Who had some hearing issues had the same mutation. So everybody was supportive and understanding. But I'm pretty open person so, they just took it, and they took my lead. You mentioned that one of your sons has the BRCA2, but the other son does not? Right. It's great that you were able to be sort of an example and a leader for your family in sort of how to tackle information like this. Did anyone else? Wa, was, in general, was everyone else's reaction the same. You mentioned that you had female relatives who may be younger than you who also had the mutation. Did they, Well, my one cousin is in the process right now. I see. I see. Of scheduling an appointment for surgical removal of her ovaries, oophorectomy. I see. So it sounds like, you know, there's, everyone's sort of going to talk to their doctor and make these decisions about what's the best action to take for themselves. And she saw a genetic counselor as well. So I'm also curious to know what else you found out from your genetic report. You said you went to 23 in the end. Was, was the BRCA2 mutation, the only surprise you found? Well, I found out that I had a little risk for Alzheimer's disease, but I'm not so sure that was accurate. [LAUGH] I also found that and I have the Tay-sachs mutation. And Tay-sachs is another Ashkenazi Jewish genetic mutation and Since I'm not having any children and my husband wasn't a carrier, then I didn't really worry about it but I was surprised. if you have a pregnancy, and you're baby's identified as having Tay-Sachs, the result of a Tay-Sachs baby is they die within a couple of years of birth. And it's a lipid storage. Disease where the baby is missing an enzyme that metabolizes a lipid, and this lipid, norm, is normally metabolized, but when you have the mutation where when you have Tay-Sachs disease. the lipid accumulates in the brain. Mm-hm. And, the baby dies. Wow. So, although you knew about your, your ancestry, and you knew you were, you know, part of this Ashkenazi Jewish population and, or lineage, and and, you know, there were maybe certained. certain variants that you may carry. You didn't know which ones and this was, you know, news to you, to be a carrier was. Right, right. It was. do you know if your sons are also carriers? I don't remember. It was more the BRCA2. I also have Gaucher's disease. And that's another lipid storage disease in Ashkenazi Jews, but not limited to Ashkenazi Jews. I see. And that's, and they're both carriers because I have the disease. You mentioned you're a carrier of Tay-Sachs and you don't, not sure if your sons have the mutation as well. And they could be carriers. would it effect, if you hadn't had kids yet, you were planning your life. Would, is this something that would be important to you, making sure before, you know, you had children with a particular mate, making sure that person was not a carrier of Tay Sachs as well? Well with the information we have today, I certainly would inquire and have my husband tested. And take action if there. I would want to make sure that we were tested and if I were to get pregnant I'd want to know if the baby I was carrying had Tay Sachs or not. You said your sons are carriers. And have your sons have, have they had any biological children yet? yes, they each have two sons. They each have two sons. Right, one son is, does not have BRCA2 mutation. Oh, that's right. One son does. And they both have two sons. I see, so this, I was just wondering if there's any, anxiety. I mean the fact that you're a carrier and one son is a carrier for the BRCA2 mutation, I guess it manifests more in females than males, Right. But there is a risk for male breast cancer and, and they believe there may be a link to prostate cancer. And the they don't seem. The one son just seems to be taking it in stride. And not focusing on it right now. You know, there're a lot of people in the general population. Who, some who don't know very much about genetics. And as this information becomes more widespread. And they discover, like you, that they have a BRCA2 or BRCA1 mutation. females in particular who don't know very much. if you had any advice to tell somebody who just found out that they have a BRCA1 one or BRCA2 mutation. Is there anything you think is important for them to know, or any particular advice or message you would give them? Well, if someone does inquire, and finds out, I certainly think they should get genetic counseling and see a physician who is a specialist in breast oncology who is aware of the the latest and greatest research. we're fortunate to live in an area where there are wonderful hospitals and research centers. And so I strongly advise people to take action and do what's best for them. I know age is a factor. If you find out you're in your 20s or 30s and you haven't started a family or had children yet, what's recommended might be entirely different than what was recommended for me. Great. Carol, thank you so much for being here. Thank you for exploring this topic. So, my name is Nikolas Blanchet, I'm 31 years old, I currently live in San Francisco, California though I have lived all over the United States and I am, have been diagnosed with Bipolar II Disorder. And what is Bipolar II Disorder? Bipolar II Disorder is characterized by long periods of depression-like symptoms. some, lethargy, lack of motivation, lack of ambition. periods periods of hopelessness, periods of sadness. Although not everyone experiences it in the same way. in addition to that, bipolar 2 had a fundamental twist where you've also got periods of what's called hypomania. Mm-hm. hypomania is like a less extreme form of mania, mania being where you have a complete break from reality. And you are hyper energetic, hyper optimistic. you usually take a lot of risky behavior. For example sort of the characteristics that my doctor always tells me to watch out for is give me a call if you decided that you're going to Vegas and going to buy a yacht for the weekend because it might seem a lot of fun so bring me in on the fun. [LAUGH]. I see and so you, then you've experienced these symptoms yourself. I have have hypomania. So, what I described was mania. Hypomania is a less extreme form. And that's one of the reason why bipolar 2 disorder is actually mis characterized and misdiagnosed, which was the case with me. hypomania, in my case, manifested as periods of extreme sociability. hypersexuality. extreme productivity at work. And less sleep than normal. Also with bipolar II disorder the hypomanic periods are rare, so one to two times a year, and fairly brief. somewhere between three and seven days, which is very different than standard mania. I see. And when were you diagnosed? I was diagnosed bipolar II disorder in November of 2012. Ok so you've only known then for a low little time. Right. And how, how has that affected you. How how did how how did that come about. So I am I have diagnosed with depression for and this is apparently by the way a very typical story. I had been diagnosed with depression for about five years. I was going to psychiatrist and a psychologist regularly and they would prescribe various antidepressants, none of which would work. And, in fact, my symptoms, over time, gradually, but, but noticeably, trended worse and worse and worse. after I moved to the Bay Area. my psychiatrist that I got out here, pointed out that I might actually not be responding well to the medication, because it was treating something that I didn't have. And, instead, he sw-, suggested that I switch to mood stabilizers. Well, the confirming fact came after I was taking a very high dosage of an antidepressant. And through the end of November, and through most of December, I had a very very bad period of depression. I had no motivation to do anything. I was very sorry I looked at the camera. No problem. I had a very, very bad period of depression. I had no motivation to do anything. I stopped going to work. It was pretty bad. And, then, when I went back and saw him again. He prescribed a, what's called a mood stabilizer. Which is different than an anti-depressant. A mood stabilizer, the most famous of which is, Lithium. They are also, they're actually the class of drug is, anti-epileptic. And they, they basically cut off the peaks of bipolar II disorder, which is helpful. Great, so after you started this regimen of of, of, of drugs then you didn't experience the depression and the hypomania that you've been experiencing previously. Right. And another thing I want to point out about bipolar II disorder that makes it so difficult to to diagnose. Is you don't go to your, if you think about it, you don't go to your doctor. And you don't tell your doctor by the way my arm is not broken, right? You don't tell him when you're not having a problem. And when you spend such a long period of your life in a dark place, in a, in a depressed state. Which is the way bipolar II works. when you have these brief periods of hypomania, you feel like that's how your life should always be. Mm-hm. Because it doesn't seem alarming, when it's going on, and people aren't alarmed by you, because it's not that complete snap from reality. So, when I would go to my doctor I never mentioned these periods. Mm-hm. now I don't have them anymore, but I'm a lot more stable in my day-to-day life. Nice, well that leads me to another question sort of about advantages and disadvantage here. You've touched on them briefly but from your own perspective, I mean are there any advantages to being or have you shown symptoms of bipolar and, and. I'm also curious on the disadvantages. So the advantages I've never really thought of it that way. one thing they don't tell you is that hypomania is awesome. [LAUGH] It feels really good. you're an animal in bed, you are hyper productive at work. You have a lot of energy, you are really social, you're really charming, you're really dynamic. you can be a little bit more risky with your behavior but not so much so the people are like scared for you. mm. So the people just think bad [INAUDIBLE] you basically feel like you're king of the world for a period of time. and so I guess that's an advantage. mm. I guess you can also say there's this philosophical advantage of knowing what pain is but lets that's just crazy. Right. Which is what I am, so that's okay. the the disadvantages are obviously work disruption, right? So that's the biggest one. With me these long, drawn out periods of silence. And you know as a friend of mine like I would go through periods where no one would hear from Nick. Where's Nick? I would just disappear. Because keeping up appearances and making sure the people around me are comfortable, having a good time, is important to me. Ans so when I was in a bad place I, instead of like being the negative guy around everyone all the time, I just sort of removed myself from the situation. And of course, there is social stigma and stuff attached with it too, which makes it complicated. Makes it difficult to have relationships. Makes it difficult to stick to tasks. I stopped and started college a number of times and looking back it probably had a lot to do with this. mm. I don't want to blame this for all of my problems, right? I still have good days and bad days. I'm still mortal. I still make mistakes. But I suppose now that I think about it, another advantage of bi-polar disorder and having had it diagnosed is I get insight. I know a little bit more about why things happen why am I this way. Why, why it gives context. It doesn't excuse things I still have things I need to work on. But it gives a little context about what my struggles might be about the things that I need to watch out for. It also makes sure that I exercise because that's very helpful. In your mind based on the advantages and disadvantages you've shared with us, if you could not be bipolar II, would you choose that for yourself at this point. Definitely. this isn't something, this isn't something like being gay or being or, I don't know, being artistic, or something Where it might seem like a disadvantage at a period of time in your life, but then contextually, it, it gets, you know, better over time, or you're able to socialize it, or come to peace with it. Even if you come to peace with being bipolar, which, I'd like to think I have, but it's pretty quick. It's still early on, I've only, I haven't even been diagnosed for a year yet. even after coming to peace with it though, it's not, it's not really something that is a good thing. I mean, if I have kids, I'm, I'm a carrier for this, potentially, from what I understand? You're the geneticist, so you tell me. but, I've got a huge family history of it. It, it creates, it's something that you have to disclose when you date, which is not fun. see, I'd rather not be. Well, so you touched on two points that are really interesting. How do other people perceive you as someone who is bipolar? What's the general reaction? How, how is it perceived by others, just strangers, say the general public, but also your friends, have they responded, and what's your reaction to their reactions. When people who I know, and have known for a period of time, find out that I'm bipolar, I tend to get one of two reactions. One is generally supportive, in saying oh, well, I'm glad you're getting this managed, I'm glad you've got some stuff. And the other one's sort of like Duh, I could have told you that! [LAUGH] Not because it manifested. Because, but because, you know? They're, because they have noticed these trends that I have. And they knew that there was something up, but they never knew what it was. And so, okay, this makes sense that you've got this. I have, I have been. Let me start that over. I have also, sort of taken it upon myself to sort of raise awareness, it's one of the reasons why I was willing to do this interview. So, I do actually tell people who I don't know well, and I admit it earlier on. Admit it sounds like the wrong word. and I disclose this earlier on rather than later, because it's not my fault, it's nothing I did, it's just a trait that I've got! I've got blue eyes, I've got a slightly crooked nose, I've got a red beard and red hair. I'm also bipolar. And so it's just something that I've inherited. And most people that I've noticed when I tell them they sort of. [LAUGH] The number one reaction I get is that they name someone else that they know and are close to that is, that is bipolar 1 or 2. and they immediately look for some sort of connection. And so my reaction to that, when people look to try and humanize it and make a connection with me as I, I don't know, I, I want to go into detail. It makes me, it makes me feel like I'm not doing this on my own, if that makes sense. Sure. Are they really negative reactions? Do people ever, I mean, I heard you make a joke earlier about, you know, oh, I'm crazy. do people, are there any misperceptions out there that you've found about bi-polar, and, and what are this misperceptions? There's, bi-polar II specifically, I've noticed, also sort of has a. Other people who have Bipolar II disorder, a lot of times they've been living with depression or bipolar II for a very long time undiagnosed. And they've set a lot of habits in place. And they've come to a lot of, I feel like not good self image. And a lot of people that I have met who are bipolarII actually want to blame everything on the illness. Like they'll say you know, why would I you know I I told my boss the other day, well, I"m bipolar so I shouldn't have to deal with this. And so that it becomes this tug of war between integration with society, becoming a productive member, and actually doing what you need to do to, to handle your disability. you mentioned previously too that, you said you have a family history of this. Now, from a genetics prospective elucidating the genetic component of bipolar disorder along with many other mental sort health conditions, anything from schizophrenia to autism has been very difficult to identify single genetic cause, even several genetic causes, and most of the findings have indicated smaller contributions of individual genes here and there. The search continues with gelomyrtol association studies. Now people are trying to move into whole genom sequencing of people who have been diagnosed. we're curious to know, what is your family history of bipolar and any other mental health condition that you think might be related? My family on my mom's side were crazy. [LAUGH] Like it's just for real, real. so my mom, my mom was diagnosed with bipolar II disorder. And she's, she was actually on the same medication that I am on now for a while. But she never told me this. Growing up with a sort, and, and, and you can read up on this more if you're interested, but growing up with sort of a, like a, a, a mentally ill parent causes a lot of, like you'd react to things slightly differently. Like I keep my mom at an arm's distance and she sort of felt embarrassed by stuff, and so there wasn't a lot of disclosure about the health situations and the, and the traits that we've got. So I'm only recently finding out a lot of this stuff that my mom's got. She's also been diagnosed well, I'm going to caveat this by saying that this is all reported by my mother. So I actually, obviously, I don't, I'm not privy to her medical records. But, according to my mother, there are also depression, and ADD, and And sometimes, depending on the doctor she sees, a personality disorder like borderline or something. my sister, one of my younger sisters, suffers from depression. my dad is the actually, on that side of the family. He is the most ADD person I have every met in my entire life. Like, you know, the Wikipedia hole. Where you just keep clicking on hyperlink after hyperlink after hyperlink, until you've got a million tabs open. Yeah, like, he can't use Wikipedia, because it's paralyzing. [LAUGH]. His, his weekend will be gone. So, it sounds like you have, you know. Immediate and extended family that have also demonstrated similar symptoms of depression and possibly even mania like you say in your, in your mom hypomania. Right. and how does that make you feel about a connection with other people genetically speaking and otherwise. Do you feel a kinship with other people that have been diagnosed with bipolar? or do you think of these people, as in, they're just other people, and, happens to be a trait as well, or is this part of a broader thread that you think ties you to other people? Well, I definitely think there's shared experience. but the social stigma against a lot of mental illness, particularly bipolar, too, because it just sort of looks like laziness a lot of the time. the social stigma there actually even affects the people who have it. Right? So, I find myself, when I'm not, you know, thinking this through, behaving logically, I find myself not wanting to associate with other bipolar people, wanting to hold them at arms' distance, not wanting to find some sort of community. because what do we have in common? What? We're all crazy. Why should we celebrate that? This is a problem, and, yet, that shared experience is helpful. sometimes you can get insights from very interesting and different places that you would never think about. So, and about areas in your life, and managing areas in your life, like the exercise thing. Exercise has been a huge impact on my life. And that, I mean, my doctor mentioned it but it didn't really sink in until I saw the high functioning people who are bipolar, too, all exercised. But then, again, maybe I thought they were high functioning because they exercised, sure and I like, that's what it is for me. I don't know. So when you, you, when you bring that up just the sort of give all of our students a generally well rounded perspective here. Are you telling us that bipolar II is manageable? Very manageable. Bipolar II is unlike some other mental illnesses. bipolar II is it's incredibly manageable with medication alone, actually. it, it responds extremely well. Some of the, more modern, psychological treatments, like cognitive behavioral therapy, they have had some success as well but not nearly as much as they've had in other areas. This is very easily fixed and managed with, just taking a pill everyday. do you know of any specific genetic risk that you have for bipolar? Have you, has your doctor told you about a specific genetic risk you might have? Or you discovered any particular gene or genetic risk you might have for bipolar? I've been told, and, I've been told that it is heritable. That it was likely in my family, but that doesn't necessarily mean genetic. So, I wasn't told specifically about genetics. What do you think about the portrayal of mental health in general, both in media and in society at large, how we deal with it as a population. Do you think we take mental health seriously, do you think? It's portrayed in a meaningful way that gets the right kind of attention, or do you think we still have some work to do? I definitely believe that in the area of portrayal of mental health, well, in the area of how the average person thinks of mental health, we have some work to do, because It's one thing, it's easy to look at someone and say you have a broken leg, you have a scratch, you've been burned. But when it permeates the mind, when it permeates the thing that sitting behind the eyes looking back at you it's hard to say well, you're an asshole versus you have an issue. And because it's so difficult to recognize in the first place, we tend to, overlook it, minimize it and, and not give it the type of treatment that we should. I went through a period actually where insurance was not quite clear for me, and so I ended up going to a public clinic to try and get some assistance with this not long after my diagnosis. And it was I'm glad the public clinic existed. It was, it was nice that San, the city of San Francisco who funded it has decided to make this type of program available. But it was dehumanizing. I, it was, there're six slots available on a Saturday. And the doors open at 9. And you're allowed to, you're allowed to start lining up at 7 a.m. If you're the seventh person in line, you will not be seen. And so I got up at 6am and I made my way down to Soma, which is quasi-sketchy area of San Francisco. And I wanted in line with other people who were potentially, violently, mentally ill. And I knew nothing about it. And for, you know, the first hour and a half it was completely unsupervised. there was no one there, there was no guard, there was no nothing. It was just a bunch of people who were there. Several people who had had a chronic mental illness came up and, had gotten into line and then when the security guard finally came, she recognized a lot of these individuals as people who apparently came very frequently. And told them that we already had the correct number of people online. So basically returning them away. Even though they were in the correct order online. And that whole period, it made me recognize that a lot of these people who were online, I mean, a lot have been addicted, they now had, were missing their teeth, they were now And possibly weren't even very educated to begin with. And these are people who, certain people, certain areas in America, they consider people like that to just be leeches on society. To be people who should be not assisted because they should just fix their own lives. And i look at them, and I see how lucky I am to be privileged in many ways, to actually have been educated, to have a, to have a, better-than-average mind that sounds really conceited to, to have sort of some of these self-perceptions and tools and that I'm able to get help. And I wonder when I see them if they were able to get help earlier, how different would their lives be. Would their lives actually have been very productive? Would they have been able to get back like I've been able to do? So yeah, I think there are major challenges. If you could say one thing or one message, generally speaking, to other people who have bipolar I or II. Or people who may wonder if they do. Maybe haven't been diagnosed. But have been going through issues themselves. If you could give them a message, or tell them something. Is there anything, in particular, you would want to say. If I had have a message for somebody who is bipolar II I would definitely say seek medical assistance. this is something that responds very well to treatment. And once you've gotten that proper treatment, once you've been able to help yourself out, then you can live a very, very satisfying and happy life. If you can't afford medical treatment, exercise. It actually goes a long way. I'm Jennie Kim, I'm of Korean descent and I experience alcohol flush reaction. Well for those of us like me who have not experienced the alcohol flush reaction, can you describe it for us. Basically I get really warm and I turn bright red whenever I drink alcohol I see, do you, is it associated with any feelings of being sick? I get a little bit queasy. I don't tolerate alcohol very well and I really can't drink more than a couple of drinks at a time. I see. So your tolerance then is maybe a little bit lower than other people of your same height and size? Exactly. Now, is this something that's common in your family? It is, my dad also experienced lacall flesh reaction, and he really doesn't drink as a result. Now, when did you first realize that you had this kind of alcohol flush? It's kind of a funny story, my mom was looking through my Facebook party pictures back when I was in college. And one day she just, sort of as she was looking through them, looked up and me and said, why you so sunburned in all your pictures? And that's when I realized something was up. I see. So it wasn't actually even, you know, you noticed something about yourself as much as you felt a certain way. Maybe you didn't have anything to compare it to per se like, from a personal experience and your mom sort of, was like, wow, you look really red. Yeah, my mom didn't, didn't understand, because she herself does not have alcohol flush reaction. I see. Now, does this mean that you have any personal genetic information about yourself or your family for this particular trait? Yes, we've all, we've all used 23 in me. You have? And what was your report for the ALDH two, the aldehyde dehydrogenase enzyme? If I can remember correctly, my father and I only have one working copy of that gene. I see, so you're heterozygous? Yes. So, wow, so that means you well we don't know who you inherited it from unless we know, is your mom, you said your mom does not have this? No. I see, so you know that you inherited this from your dad. Definitely from my dad, yeah. Wow, how does that make you feel? I dunno, just empathetic I guess. [LAUGH] For my dad. [LAUGH] do you consider this, a, I guess a good or a bad trait at all? Or a positive or a negative thing? Well, it's funny that you asked that, you know, I think if you'd asked me this in col, back in college, I would have said it's definitely a negative thing. I wish I didn't have it. Then I could, you know, have champagne all the time and it would be awesome. but now I'm actually pretty grateful for it. first of all, it's good I think that it helps me be more aware of the impact that alcohol has on my body. Mm-hm. Which is generally a good thing for my health and well-being and second, I actually kind of like, or at least appreciate, strangely enough, how this reaction is somewhat socially embarrassing and awkward. I actually appreciate feeling bad about myself sometimes, because that's why I'm funny. You raise an interesting point there, as someone who experiences alcohol flesh reaction, and let's say someone watching this class maybe is only just discovering this for themselves. Isn't it an embarrassing feeling, or like do people ever make fun of you for it, or? Well, you know, I think back when I started noticing it, I was much more self-concious. I like to think though that people are really too self-involved to really notice other people, at least I am. [LAUGH] So I have become a lot more comfortable with that, and I also just don't care as much. so obviously the disadvantages of alcohol flush reaction are that you can feel kind of bad. You don't have that high of a tolerance, and there may be some kind of awkward social stuff occasionally. Are there any advantages, besides the ones you mentioned about you know, being more self-aware about yourself? Is there any kind of other advantage to? I actually like the fact that it moderates. It forces me to moderate my drinking, and to be pretty judicious about drinking. I always have to ask myself, like, is this cocktail really worth it? I have a saying that I can either be drinking, or I can be cute, but I can't be both at the same time. [LAUGH] So, I'll often just choose to be cute, and, you know, just choose not to partake in, in alcohol at all and as I'm getting older I kind of appreciate that more, to have that, to have that choice, and I feel better, you know, in the mornings than maybe some of my other friends would. How do you think this particular trait of the alcohol flush is seen culturally and socially by other people, even outside your own personal experience, how do you think it's portrayed? I actually don't know. I've just never been on the other side of it.I, I imagine again that it's kind of like my mom. People would just ask, like, are you okay, or are you sunburned, or what happened there? [LAUGH] but I don't know if people really, really are aware of it, or, you know, know that much about it. It usually helps when you're out drinking and getting this reaction. Other people around you are also drinking, so maybe that also contributes to the fact that people are less aware. Right, have you ever felt pressured to drink, even though you didn't want to specifically for this reason? No, that's just not my nature in general. You in know my, my thinking is, as far as alcohol flush reaction is concerned, is just, it's kind of like singing show tunes, or getting sleepy, it's just something that happens naturally when I drink. If you had the chance to change this trait about yourself, would you change it? It's funny that you ask, you ask that. I mean if you asked me the same question ten years ago when I was still in college I would have said yes, definitely, get rid of it now, champagne for everyone. but today I actually really appreciate it. I mean first of all I appreciate the fact that it forces me to moderate my drinking and to be more aware of the impact alcohol has on my body. Second of all, I appreciate the kind of embarrassing effects that it has because, you know, it forces me to be comfortable with being uncomfortable and feeling awkward. and also I think it's important that, I'll call flush that you, that I realize that this, this condition is completely under my control, you know, if I don't drink alcohol, then I don't turn red, you know, I just stay normal Asian colored. [LAUGH] Period, and that's a huge factor. I think it would be much, for me, it would be a lot more difficult if this was something that I had no control over. So, for example, like asthma attacks, or seizures, or allergies, or things that, you know, you might not have control of, over the stimulus and the reaction to me that would be a lot more debilitating. So for me, this is not that big of a deal. What about any kind of any kind of medication? You know, for lactose intolerance and people whose bodies don't metabolize lactose very easily, they can actually take a bioactive form of lactase which allows them to digest dairy products is there anything like that for alcohol flush reaction that you know of? There's kind of this over the counter remedy that a lot of like, my Asian peers and I discovered it's just an over the counter antacid or acid reducing pill, which I used to call the anti Asian pill and I used to take that when I drank. But later, I found out that research shows that actually isn't good for you to suppress your body's symptoms as it processes its toxins so I stopped taking it. Wow, I did not know that so what advice would you give to an individual who may be watching this for the first time, maybe discovering that, you know they have alcohol flush reaction. Is there any important advice you would give that person? Well, I'd tell this person, let's just call her 21 year old Jennie Kim, I'd tell her first of all you're going to need a good full cover foundation that looks natural and also photographs well, for those nights out when you'll be drinking. Makeup Forever makes a good one, number 173. It looks too dark in the bottle, but trust me, that's your shade. And then second, I would tell her, don't sweat it, don't worry about it, you know, just be grateful that you are able to consume that much alcohol in one sitting, you know, use those calories for cheese fries instead, because that body's not going to keep itself. And finally, I would tell 21-year-old me that it's okay to feel embarrassed, because, you know, yeah, it's embarrassing to look like a cherry Jolly Rancher next to your cute blonde friend at the club. Nobody wants to do that, but you know what, life is embarrassing, life is messy. Life is like, your big red face, you know, it's how you handle it that matters. And I can tell, I could tell her right now that, you know, while you're cute blonde friends might stay perfect, they'll never be hilarious. [LAUGH] And also stay away from gauchos, because that's not a good look for anyone. Duly noted, I think that's good advice overall. Jenny, thanks for joining us. Thank you. Hi, my name is Franklin Kalk, I'm 60 years old, I live in Austin Texas. I took Warfarin for six months, about three years ago. I had a blood clot, probably due to heavy travel, there were no other complicating symptoms, or at least that was What we surmised at the time. Now when you say you had a blood clot, that you know to anyone who hasn't had a blood clot before that sounds kind of serious, is that serious? It is and it was kind of an interesting I mean I'll tell you the long version, right? it started out I in retrospect probably for several months I had some developing issues but didn't really know it at the time. But looking back after after I discovered it, it became pretty clear that I had these these symptoms. And just so we know, what are those symptoms? Well, I was having I was getting a little bit light headed occasionally. I just thought it was from working out too much or something like that, right? I travel a lot, my ankles had started to swell on long trips on aircraft, which they had never done before. And so, and I just thought, well, it's inactivity. Well, of course, it was, but it was also That I was having some of these other things, you know, beginning to crop up in my, or, my, my, veins or arteries, whatever. so, anyway, the story is, I was, my wife and son were in Colorado on vacation. I was going to meet them. I flew to Denver from Austin, I was walking down the concourse in the Denver airport, talking to my wife on the phone mo, going to my next gate, because I was flying to Vale. And all of a sudden, I felt like I was just walking through molasses. It was amazing. I just felt like I was in slow motion. And it wasn't even vertigo. It was, it was you know, but I but I kind of thought it was. Okay. Altitude you know. Yada yada yada. RIght. So I said to my wife, I have to sit down. I think i'm just you know, the thin air is getting to me in Denver. So I went over to my gate kind of, stumbbled over I guess and I sat down and put my head between my legs and that didn't help and I just crashed on the floor. So you know then I felt kind of woozy but I was you know, people were worried about me. I got up. I was able to get on the plane. And then over the next couple of days, I felt fine. So, no big deal. I was there for a week. I then flew to Germany. And I got to Germany. I felt fine. my first night there, I went to went into a an establishment with a friend of mine to watch some soccer. We had a couple of beers. Walking out I we hit the cobblestone streets and I twisted my ankle a little bit. The next day, in that same leg, I had a very tender spot on the back of my calf and I thought well, I must have twisted more than just my ankle. No big deal. But it felt really tender and. Mm-hm. Tight, you know, like I had pulled a muscle. Mm-hm. For a couple of days. And then, over time, it kind of went away. So then, a few days later, I flew back to Austin, got home. The next day, I had the same pain, but it was in my groin. And, you know? It was late at night. And I said to my wife, you know? I, that's weird, it's moved. maybe I have a blood clot. I'll go to the urgent care clinic in the morning. So, the next morning. I got up and it was big and it was really tender and red. So I went in, and you know, the doctor took one look and said, yeah, you have a blood clot. Get, get across the street to the radiology group and We'll do an ultrasound. So I went to cross the street, had an ultrasound, it was pretty clear during the ultrasound procedure. It was kind of neat because, you know, they make you do things like flex your ankles and on aircraft, you may have notice there are instructions in aircraft magazines about moving your legs, you know, moving your knees up and down or flexing your ankles. And they had a speaker on the ultrasound device. So I could actually hear the blood flowing through my veins as I flexed my ankles. So those exercises are [LAUGH] there for a reason I guess which I didn't know at the time. so I thought, that's pretty cool. So the radiologist said, it'll take me a while to look at your chart. Go ahead and go home. I'll call you. So I got five minutes away, literally, from the clinic in my car and the nurse called and said, you know, come back. So I turned around, came back and they gave me a heparin shot immediately in my belly. And And what's heparin for? Heparin is a very fast acting clot basically, I'll call it clot breaker. I don't know exactly the terminology, but it dissolves the clot. And it's rapid, I mean it only took a couple of days before the swelling had virtually gone away. And I took that for ten days. I had to take shots in my belly, which was really really uncomfortable. and then I started on Warfarin after that. So ten days on heparin and then I had a sort of a ramp up into Warfarin, regime and took Warfarin for six months. Now, I, I guess in your case in particular it seems rather, even scary to some people that some of those symptoms were even kind of. Not benign but definitely synonymous with other kinds of causes. Right, right. and so your realization, you know that it was a blood clot seemed r-, rather important to getting it treated in time before something worse happened. Right. Well I, you know I didn't really know anything about blood clots. I, I have to say I wasn't educated about them at all. I, a little better educated now of course but At the time, I really didn't know anything. once the pain moved from my calf to my groin, I kind of, you know, figured out. Oh, wait a minute. This isn't just a muscle pull. And it's really tender. I mean, you, I couldn't touch it without it being pretty painful. So. You know, that was a little bit, you know, muscle pulls don't really feel that way. With a muscle pull, if you, you know, if you really massage, may be okay. But I mean, just, you know, light touch, I could feel it. So, it was something different. Well, after you had the heparin treatment, and you were able to sort of bust up the initial clot. Right. The Warfarin was prescribed to essentially prevent clots from forming For a period of time in the future. Right. Now, is this a pill that you had to take every day? Well, first of all, is it a pill? It's a pill. And is it something you had to take every day? Right. It's a pill, you take it every day, and, I'm trying to, I can't remember exactly whether I actually took more than one in a day to ramp up to some level or not. I don't remember, but It took about two weeks to determine that I was stable on it. That my my clotting factors were at a normal level and not varying a lot. because that's one of the things they look for. so I had to get, you know, blood tests every every well twice a week for two weeks and then every week after. But it's a pill and, long term over six months I took it once a day. And so obviously I guess the concern is since the Warfarin itself modulates the clotting factors. Right. And how effective and efficient they work for you, that too much Warfarin could be a bad thing. Absolutely. So when your doctor prescribed this for you what were the considerations that went into I mean did he have lots of special instructions for you? Did he try to get a lot of information from you? Did you have to modify anything in your life, to accommodate the dosing? yes, all of the above, he gave gave me some fairly, they weren't super detailed, but fairly detailed instructions. I, you know, once I'd discovered and had verified at the doctor that I had a clot and that I was, you know, because these shots will remind you if nothing else. because compared to the shots the Warfarin itself was not really a big deal for me in terms of the you know, the ingestion. Sure. The shots hurt. they hurt for quite a while after taking, maybe 20 minutes I would have to lie down and just try to relax because I had such a massive pain right in my belly where the, where I got the shot. anyway the, the Warfarin was so, so there were relatively detailed instructions. I had educated myself after finding about the clot. And so, the doctor, you know, more or less cursorily went over the instructions with me, rather than go through them word by word, because he knew I had read them, and had begun to educate myself. And, I was lucky because my personal physician was also my next-door neighbor. So he knew my lifestyle and knew that I was going to be, you know, pretty diligent about understanding this, you know, Mm hmm. This condition. Well, what were some of the special exceptions? we know that vitamin K is Right. Really important rather the amounts of vitamin K, because vitamin K's an essential component for clotting Right So did you have to alter your diet, or did you have to pay special attention to it? Yes. So, before, and this is another interesting sort of predetermining factor, I think. Not just the travel but I ate a lot of leafy green vegetables, which have, those are really the main sources in our normal diet of vitamin K. for example iceberg lettuce doesn't have much but romaine does. Right? Kale has an enormous amount. Spinach. I love spinach. I, I ate a lotta spinach before that. So I had to cut back. And I really, I didn't eliminate them from my diet but I cut way back. And I did. Control very carefully the intake, so I I knew exactly how much I was taking each day. There were some things I totally eliminated from my diet, for example, avocados. And the reason for that is avocados, you can have two avocados that look the same, but yet one will have very little vitamin K, and the other can have an enormous amount. Per unit weight. So the, the variability was just, is something that you know you would you just imagine well I'm not going to eat those then, right? Because I don't want to inject that kind of variability into my diet. I, I'm a big fan of if I can control, control things through my diet I'll be better off. So, I kind of laugh once in a while and say, I went to meat and potatoes for six months. [LAUGH] The opposite direction of what some people end up having to do. Right. And the other thing that was a little bit interesting to me, and I don't remember how important a factor this was made out to be, but I know I wasn't suppose to get really over heated when I worked out. So don't really stress your body out and you know, because now you're making your liver work pretty hard. And that's where the clotting factors come from in your blood stream, right? So you need to be really careful about, about how you control your you know the energy expenditure that your body goes through. So, and I, and I had a, a, my clot occurred in early July. Mm-hm. So in Austin, July is the hottest time of year. So, you know, rather than. I'm not going to go outside and run at noon. Right? [LAUGH]. Right. Because I'm not just going to get, super heated. So, that was a, that was a, a pretty substantial change. Another change, was it, because you have to worry about your blood, you know, maybe, maybe not being, so, maybe not being able to clot so much anymore. Right, I mean, Warfarin has the effect of thinning blood, so that it doesn't clot as easily, but then the concern obviously is that you don't clot enough when you need to clot. Right Yeah. So another thing I did, was I, I had taken baby aspirin one a day at that point. And that's a different way to thin the blood, right. As you get older, they kind of recommend that for your heart. But that's really a, I think that's a platelet lubricity issue. Uh-huh. Whereas Warfarin is really about clotting factors in the bloodstream, which is a completely, it's a chemistry thing, right. And so, I had stopped taking aspirin during that time. Just because it was another variable we wanted to eliminate. And so I really changed my diet pretty dramatically. I went out and bought the Coumadin Cookbook. [LAUGH]. Which was really great for meat and potato recipes. [LAUGH]. [LAUGH]. Well, that sounds like just the, diet and the recipe for some people out there already. Right, exactly. Yeah. Now where there any like besides your diet any special activities that you know you were precluded from doing? Besides even, you know, like you said exercising in the heat. was there any major concern about getting injuries? Right. Or, or or stopping bleeding if it were to occur? Yes, In fact, when I had the weekly blood test one thing I noticed right away was that the bleeding did not stop. Just a little pin prick in the finger is what was needed to get the blood test taken. So, you know, you can usually just do this with your fingers for two, three minutes, and then the blood will stop, right? But it would take 30 minutes or more. Because, you know, we were trying to keep my blood relatively thin. the other thing, the other lifestyle change for me was I like to drive cars fast at the race track. And, I couldn't do that anymore because of the concern about blunt-force trauma. Any kind of accident, you know, if you have a bad bruise you could you know potentially bleed to death if you're blood doesn't clot well. So, you know, that's, that's the kind of thing that you know, really was a big change for me. Now, I'm interested too sort of in the more personal side. I mean, this is all very technical and obviously things about your life had to change. You know, from the event of having a clot itself, and then of course having to go through, like you said, the ten day heparin treatment, and the six months of warfarin. Right. Did it have, you know, does this have a psychological impact or an emotional impact on you and your family? Yes. Oh yeah. for me personally, I stopped traveling for about six to eight weeks. And then after that, I remember still the first aircraft that I got on. I was fidgeting. And it was Austin to Dallas, you know, literally a 35 minute flight. And then I went Dallas to Milwaukee. So maybe an hour, right, not very far. I was fidgeting the whole time just trying to keep my blood flowing. [LAUGH] I mean it was really, it really changes your attitude. I mean for me it was my first glimpse of mortality idea right. Yeah. So, I mean that was, that was a big deal and I think also you know just having to go through a dietary change for the first time in my life. And strictly control my diet. You know, my attitude had always been, I'll eat as much as I want, anything I want, I'll just exercise to keep my weight, you know, where I want it. It wasn't like that anymore. So that was a big change, and you know, it was a big change for my family because now all of a sudden If we were, if they were going to have kale or spinach, I wasn't. So it was almost like we had to cook for two different diets. Right so, I mean, and just things like that. I mean that was that was part of it. But I think also there was probably some worry, you know, from the other family members about, you know, is dad okay, or is my husband okay or. Right well, you know, there are, there's a lot of new information out there about genetic variability, and certain genes that affect your metabolism of Warfarin. We're just curious, do you know if you, do you know of anything about your genetics with regards to that sensitivity [INAUDIBLE] Warfarin yet. I do not know. And I didn't know there was a genetic component, so that's good. I'm going to go study it actually. Yeah. we'll just ask as a follow up then. So this is something that you'd be interested in knowing about yourself then in case you. Absolutely. Ever needed Warfarin in the future? Absolutely. Right. Yeah, and you know there's has been there's has been stroke, or heart disease in my ancestry. Mm-hm. you know recent ancestry. both sides of my family father and mother. I've always looked at that and said. Well, you know? Back then, people smoked a lot. And they didn't have very good diets. And I'm in much better health than my father was at my age, and his father. But, you know? It kind of makes me wonder. And I know there has been a history of strokes on my mother's side of the family, in particular. And of course, that's one, you know, one by-product of blood clots. Oh, absolutely. [CROSSTALK] so overall, you're pretty pleased then that a drug like Warfarin does exist at all? Obviously to assist. but you know, this was a big sort of life changing event for you. Right. Right. If you could you know, talk to someone that was either just diagnosed with a blood clot and was going to have to go on Warfarin over a period of time, or if you were going to have to give advice to a family member or friend of someone who was going to have to undergo that. Do you have any helpful or important advice or opinion that you'd like to share with them. Something that you think it's important and they should know about? Well when I read about Warfarin I thought, you know a couple of things. It's, it's almost like Aspirin. It was discovered quite a while ago. Almost, well early in the last century. Maybe 1930s, or 20s. it's amazing that such an effective drug has not really had yet a replacement that works kind of for everybody, you know what I mean? that was interesting to me. because it has been used really, for other purposes than treating blood clots, before that At first I thought I'm not sure I want to put this in my body, but it really wasn't all that bad. The actual ingestion of the, of the drug itself. I really felt nothing and you know I felt perfectly normal. so that was good. And I think. They're, you know, don't fear, right? On the other hand, for me, I, I stabilized rapidly. And, and, you know, my my clotting factors in my blood stayed very constant over time. Maybe that was just discipline. So, my advice would be, follow a, a diet, you know. Be really strict about your diet. That doesn't mean, you know, deprive yourself. But, but be consistent with it. So that your, your, your body is being presented with the same Chemistry from nutrition. I mean, I think that's really important. the other thing is that, you know, taking the drug, again, is not the end of the world. And, if you're a typical person that gets a blood clot, you don't take it forever. I mean, in my case, you know, it was six months and I was off it and that was, you know, that was four years ago so you know, I think, but it, it, it does change your lifestyle a little bit or maybe a lot. I guess depending on the you know the gravity of the situation. But it isn't the end of the world [LAUGH]. Well we're glad that you had more friend [LAUGH] and that it worked successfully for you, and that you're here to share your story with us. Oh thank you very much. Well, we're really happy that you came here today. you know that you're part of a group of five individuals who are participating in our genomics course. And we're here to sort of spotlight your personal stories. And you've been selected and agreed to participate with us because you have a very interesting story and background. Because you are adopted. So what I'd like for you to do if you can is just walk us through a little bit. Tell us tell us where you're from. What, what your name is? Where you're from? Where you grew up? And you know when you found out that you were adopted for the first time and sort of how, how that made you feel? Okay. I'm Sterling Tadlock and I grew up in eastern North Carolina in a really small rural community. About 50 minutes southeast of Raleigh in a little town called Grantham. I was raised as an only child, my dad was a sheriff's deputy, my mom was a stay-at-home mom. we lived a pretty country, rural life. you know, we never really traveled outside of the state. and I grew up as an only child thinking my parents were my real parents which I still classify them as my real parents but yeah, I didn't really think, think anything about it until I got a little bit older and sort of realized that, you know, I don't really look like my parents. How old were you when that happened? I was probably, you know, probably 11, 12, when I sort of noticed, you know, my parents, have different body shapes than me, I'm sort of tall, slender, they're not. hmm. And I always just sort of wondered, you know, why is that? And sort of just put it to the back of my mind. hmm. Although I did notice that my friends, parents, and their siblings looked more similar than I looked to my parents. hmm. But again, I didn't really question it, because I didn't really think anything of it. Did anyone else ever point that out to you? You know, not that I remember I cannot, I can't remember my parent, any one, any of my friends pointing that out. That I looked a lot different than my parents. But, you know, there was love and warmth in the family, and so. That sort of was secondary Did you know of anyone else in your family, extended or otherwise that had been adopted? Or did you have any other kinds of interactions? Did you know anyone else, either in or outside of your family that had been adopted? actually I had a distant cousin that had. been adopted by their grandparents. so, it wasn't as far, you know, removed as I am from my real parents, biologically. Sure. but that was really the only exposure I had. I never really understood, you know, growing up, what adopted meant, just because. Sex is not talked about a lot in eastern North Carolina and the understanding of you know. Where you come from from your biological parents wasn't really ever brought up, so the concept of being adopted also was never brought up. So, how old were you when you finally actually sort of figured it out or someone talked to you about it? So it's a really investing story. I was 14 and like most people in eastern North Carolina I was raised in the church. The church was a big facet in everyone's life, and I went to sunday school one day. I was 14 and coincidentally it was father's day. Hmm. And, in church that day, Sunday school lesson the teacher was talking about how, whenever you become adopted or whenever you become a Christian, you become adopted into God's family. And, he then looked at me then said, so, why don't you tell the class what it feels like to be adopted, Sterling. And that sort of struck me [LAUGH] because I, I had never heard that I was adopted before. Like I said, I thought that, you know. Mm-hm. I look a little bit different than my parents and but then I saw pictures of me as a baby with my parents and so. You know? I just thought about it. And I was, like, no. I can't be adopted. And I remember there was a, a girl, a distant cousin of mine. Who said, Sterling's not adopted. those are his real parents. And so, I sort of squashed it in church. Although there was this rumbling anxiety within me. Mm-hm. And then I went to the sermon portion of church. And I sat between my grandmother, whom I refer to as MeMaw. And, my mama on the other side. Mm-hm. And, I leaned over to my MeMaw, and I was like, so, am I adopted? And she didn't look at me. She looked, kept looking straight at the pulpit, and she's like, you're going to have to ask your mother about that. and so then I turned to my mama and I was like, so, I heard in Sunday school that I'm adopted. And she's like well you are, and I just sort of froze right there in the pew. And [COUGH] I just was in shock. I, I didn't really react at first, and then I just started tearing up and crying and stood up and just sort of left the church. We, I ran out into the kitchen and. My mother and grandmother followed me in there. What was going through your mind? Why, why, why were you upset? What was, did you know what was making you upset about the time? It was mainly that, you know, my concept of what, who my parents were, and their relatedness to me. Was different than what I originally had thought of, like they weren't my biological parents. Mm-hm. And, then secondary to that, there, I had biological parents out there that I didn't know. Mm-hm. And, then along with that was the whole like, me not knowing until the age of 14 like having Sure. This perception that, you know. The mother and father that I grew up with were not my biological ones. So did you feel instantaneously more distant from them, or was this more of a. It was a mixture, in that moment it was a mixture of shock, anxiety sort of sadness I also felt. And felt this guilt, that my reaction would in some way make my mother and father that I grew up with, whom I refer to as my real parents, them. I would make them sad by being sad, which is something I think a lot of adopted children go through. And it's a common thing that I've had, like, emotionally, when I sort of questioned who my biological parents are. Mm-hm. I think it's one of the, sort of, disadvantages, in a way, of being adopted. Is, this notion of survivor's guilt, where there's a big disaster, this is where the term came from originally, I believe. There's a big disaster, and those that survive the disaster feel guilty because they're not the ones that have been injured or killed. And when you're adopted, you feel like, I was chosen you know, by my parents, but there are plenty of other people who are still in the foster care system who weren't adopted. And you feel like you should be grateful, you know, that you were adopted. And you should be thankful everyday that you live, that you have a family that, you know, raised you and supported you, and, and, I am thankful. But, you know anytime I question being adopted. Who my biological parents are, that's like a twinge of guilt, sort of. It sounds like a lot of pressure to sort of have to feel. Especially, initially, I'm sure you end up dealing with it. Everyone deals with it in their own way over time. Yeah, and my own personal temperament probably plays into it. Like I I, as you know, I'm a psychiatrist and I sort of am really in touch, or try to be with not only my own emotions, but other people's. Like, that's sort of what I do as my livelihood is help people who are dealing with a lot of psychological stress. And pathology and. hmm. and so I'm sort of sensitive to those sort of feelings of guilt and stress and Sure, you mentioned that this was sort of a disadvantage. You sort of discover it and they're sort of this, this guilt you have to deal with, but can you speak more about some of the other, are there any advantages of being adopted and you know, is there, is there anything good that comes from, sort of being in that scenario, did you find, where you fortune, fortunate in any way or did you feel lucky in some sense? I did, you know, probably, I don't know if it's obvious or not but. Being adopted, you, you obviously were chosen by two individuals, I guess it could be one, who want to raise you, and, you know, who actively want to be, you to be a part of their lives, and who want to, you know, surround you with their love, and their support and their caring. Whereas not that biological parents don't have that same feeling, but, sometimes you know biological children just sort of happen I would imagine. And there's not this rigorous active progress, process, not that. You know, there's a very rigorous process in adopting an individual and you know, in the fact that I was chosen. Mm hmm. And there's several other people who weren't you know, makes me thankful that, that I was. obviously the advantage of being able to be in a. Supportive, loving home. Sure. How did that make you think about your biological parents once you discovered this information? What was going through your mind about, you know, the scenario in which you found yourself? Right. Did you have a lot of questions? Yeah, I mean, I think there's a lot of fantasy that goes on with, you know, who they could be, like are they like me? Do they act like me? Do they talk like me? What are their professions? Like, what if it's like, you know, I remember when I was a teenager, like what if it's like some European like royal family who like ships their child off to North Carolina and was reared by, you know, some really awesome southern parent. that obviously came to mind. Also, like what if they're in jail or, you know, you know, not even alive? Like, you know, that, that came into mind. So I was just always curious as to what they were, what they were like. and also, what was the situation that led them to having to put up a child for adoption? Okay. so, what kind of questions do you have now as an adult? how interested are you in, you know, the, the idea that you're adopted and you know you have biological family. You may or may not know or think that they are alive or anywhere close by, but, what kind of questions do you have about those ideas now? About my biological parents? Yeah. I still wonder like, what were the circumstances that led them to, you know, you know, making the decision to put me up for adoption. I'm also just sort of curious about their lives, what are they like? if I have any siblings or not, I mean, that's always a question of mine. if there are any health considerations. You know, there's a lot of health diseases, medical diseases have a huge genetic component, and like, knowing that information is important to me, And just sort of what their outlook on life is now that they have an individual that's being raised by other people. Like, do they ever think about me? Do they ever wonder how I'm doing or what I'm up to? Sure. What do you know about your actual adoption story? Do you, you have any information about what actually did happen? So after I found out I was adopted, I sort of dropped, dropped it for awhile, because I had this incredible sense of guilt that I should be thankful, and I should be happy with what I have. And that I shouldn't, you know, pursue things that may hurt my parents' feelings. so, I sort of left it alone until I went to college. When I was in college, I thought well I should, you know, try to find out some information because it might be interesting to know sort of, what information is out there, knowing that it's probably limited. So I contacted the department of social services in Wayne county, and it took a month or two for me to get these paper documents that basically set the files close which means that the my biolo, biological parents did not want to have any communication with me after putting me up for adoption. They wanted to sort of be a closed file, but they did have some generic health information they entered in. And nothing about my biological father. My biological mother was 19 she was in community college. She really liked art she liked swimming, she was like five four, had auburn hair. and it said that my, her great aunt had breast cancer, I believe. And someone in the family had diabetes and How did it make you feel to find that, even that little bit of information? It, it you know just made me more curious. because I know that there's so much more of a. So many more facets of their story and their livelihood and those are just few answers, and then hair color and height. Sure. And it made me more curious about what they were like. Did you feel a connection to any of the traits you discovered about your biological mom? well, I have auburn hair. [LAUGH] That's sort of the closest thing. I guess I'm into art somewhat, I like music, but. that's really it. It, the document was sort of sterile in the information it presented. So I didn't find that much of a connection. Sure. Have you ever thought about trying to, to find a, a, a bigger connection? I have. you know The other avenues that I could pursue to find out who my biological parents are right now all I've known about was perusing the adoption detective agencies. I'm not really sure what the formal name of them are. But they're quite expensive and I just have never had the. The time or the financial resources to to pursue that. but, I'm sort of open to going through that avenue later on in life. Sure, and of course, I know because you're a, you're a medical doctor you're a psychiatrist. You're familiar with what, you know, modern technology can do as far as DNA results. And, you know as part of participation we've offered you an opportunity to actually submit a DNA sample and find out you know, if there, in the 23andMe program if you might find any. Genetic relatives of yours. What are your thoughts surrounding that? You've, you've submitted your DNA, you've submitted your sample, but you haven't seen your results yet. You know what are some thoughts going into that about participating in a program like that, and what you expect to see, what you expect to find, and how that might make you feel? You know, to be honest, I haven't thought about it too much. Because, again that fantasy play of, you know, finding my biological parents, like finding the DNA that may match with mine and seeing what percentage the similarities are. And, being able to contact them. I don't want to disappoint myself, because I know that the. The highest likelihood is that there's probably going to be some distant, distant cousin that has similar DNA to me. So, I'm not really putting a whole lot of stock into it as far as finding somebody. But I am interesting in seeing, you know, the other facets of my DNA that 23andMe will sort of elucidate, such as risk for medical diseases and pharmacological sort of ability to metabolize drugs and to respond to them, I think that's a part of it. And, just generic ancestry stuff, that's mainly what I'm looking forward to seeing, but again, like, anything's possible, so. If, if something were to come up it would shock me you know, and I am sure I would have a, a variety of emotions. but I haven't really thought about it too much. I am going to like go through and sort of see what all information is there I'm not sort of block it because if it's there it's there and I want to know about it but. Do you think in your current state of mind if you were to find, let's say, you know, let's just say, a cousin or more, you know? Third, second cousin or someone even more related? Do you think you are interested in possibly making a connection with that person and maybe reaching out to explore more, and, and maybe even meet them. That's a tough one. I, I'm not sure. I don't know what all I would gain from contacting someone that's any more further out than grandparents or first cousins. Just because. You know, I'm worried that it would opens doors to, I'm actually not sure. I haven't really thought about it, of trying to contact those people. I think if it were like my biological parents or siblings or grandparents, I would. But I don't know because. They may not know, because it would sort of open a doorway to possibly some drama where I said, hey I'm an adopted individual and I'm your second cousin and then they try to like contact all their relatives to figure out who in their family's put someone up for adoption. And that person may not want their whole family to know that they had a kid and had to put him up for adoption. I don't know if I want to expose an unknown individual to that kind of sordid drama. Sure. what, do you know anything about any blood relatives at all? Do you have other, so, besides your mom, there's no knowledge, you don't know of anyone else that you're genetically related to currently? I don't know of anything substantial. There's always been speculation in the community that, this person in a far off part of North Carolina may be related to me because they look similar to me or act similar to me but, nothing substantial, as far as blood relatives. it would be interesting if they were in North Carolina but I'm not sure. And, sort of, just sort of wrap up pretty soon here. let's say you participate in 23andMe and you do find something and it's closer, you may find a relative that's closer than second cousin, you may have whatever feelings you have about it. what are your thoughts around your adopted family, your, as you call them your real parents What do you think, how do you think they feel about this or you connecting, or just what are your feelings surrounding that? I feel a little bit better about, when, since, since the first time that I found I was adopted to this current point in time, we've talked about it here and there. And they've sorted of openly admitted they would be fine with me going out trying to find my biological parents, they said if they were in my position they would want to know. You know, if there was someone that was biologically related to them, they said that that curiosity is something that they don't think they could sort of push, push aside. and they don't feel you know at all, like they're less appreciated for what they've done for me or feel like I love them any less. which I don't because they did raise me. So, but you know, there's always going to be a tinge of that sort of survivor guilt or whatever. that I'm always going to have. But I don't think it'll impede me from trying to contact. Or, pursue some sort of connection, if there is one. Are you excited to see your 23andMe resuts? I am, I am. I've been holding out, they've actually been available for a little bit now, but, for the purposes of the interview I've, sort of held back. I'm waiting on the edge of my seat to see what they say. [LAUGH] Well, I hope that they're good results, no matter what that may be, and. We'll see what kinds of, you know, feelings and emotions, and where you are, we'll give you a chance to look at those results and see what they are and we'll let you come back hopefully and talk to us a bit about what you found out. And at the very least, you know, we'll talk about deep ancestry and lineages, some of the health risks, but also hopefully, maybe even some relative connections. We'll see. We'll see, I'll stay hopeful I'm Uta Francke, I'm a human geneticist originally from Germany, as you can hear, and I am an Emeritus Professor here at Stanford and also Senior Medical Director at 23 and me. well thank you very much for being here. we've been talking a lot and learning a lot about the genome, what it's made of, and right now, we've been focusing on how big it is. And, We, we've learned that there are about 3 billion base pairs in the human genome. And there's a lot of research that's gone on for a long time. And we're hoping, you can maybe, shed some light on what we know about the research that led to us understanding how big the genome is. And sort of, where we are now. You know there were early estimates of the size of the genome simply by the, measuring the amount of DNA in a cell? People could do that a long time ago, and so the estimate was in that range of 3 billion base pairs. But the idea to actually sequence it was, came up in the mid 80s, when capillary sequencing was developed, and many people thought it was a, absolutely crazy idea, because it's so huge, so much information. And it was also known that there was a lot of repetitive DNA in it. So people said, is it really worth it to, to find the genes that are really important in this huge, huge amount of information? But then when it was agreed upon to embark on it as an international venture, it was also decided that we were not going to do just the human, we also wanted to do model organisms that people work on, in the laboratory. Like the roundworms, the fruit fly. And then to compare the human and the animal information at the same time. And at that time, we already knew that the relative genome sizes of these different animals were, were different, at the time, right? Yeah, that was already known. And, the other thing to know about the Human Genome Project, when it finally got started around 1990, the first five years were devoted to just mapping the chromosomes. You know, people heard about chromosomes, and we know that DNA runs in chromosomes from one end to another, so it would make sense, logical sense, to start sequencing at one end and then go through. But instead, what people did, they made maps of the chromosomes and then you could focus in on specific region and it was a sequencing there. And also to find genes that are located on specific chromosome regions. [INAUDIBLE] So, instead of having those sort of, like you say, sequence from one end to the other, you could have many starting places in the middle of a chromosome and sort of read out from there. Right, and you could relate the sequence to the chromosome and features because chromosomes, when they are treated with a certain agent, display banding patterns that are very unique. Therefore, we can identify each chromosome individually, which is something you cannot do when they are uniformly stained, and also we can see within each chromosome there are certain regions. And now we can find out in which region certain genes are located. And all of this physical mapping, as it's called, was done before the sequencing even started. So what happened when the sequencing project started? You mentioned it was an international collaboration. Was this really countries all over the world, or were they more from one region or another? Well there were countries who had developed infrastructure to take on such a big project. And in Europe it was predominantly the UK, France and Germany. And Canada was a player as well as Japan and China. And all of these people got together under the, chairmanship so to say, of Francis Collins who is now the Director of the NIH. He was organizing this big international thing and made sure there wasn't too much waste and duplication. They were dividing up the chromosomes, like here you do chromosome 21, okay, that's where we're focusing on. And then they had regular meetings. They exchanged information. All the results were immediately shared and put online. And therefore because of this international effort this led to success ultimately. And this obviously took a period of, of time. and I imagine it sort of was stop and go. At different times. You know how. Mm-hmm. How does this fit? You know the, this big initial effort to sequence it. as far as a time scale. How long did it take? Well, we started in 1990. And for the first five years they did just mapping. And then it was slow to get seriously into sequencing. It was estimated that it would be finished in 2005. But then in the late 90s there was also a commercial company called Celera. They said we can do this even faster, you guys are just too slow. We have better methods. And we can chop up the genome in small sequences and sequence the small pieces and have the computers line it all up and put it together. And that's when a serious way started because the companies threatened that whatever genes they would discover, they would patent, and therefore the medical benefits would go to them rather than to the public. And therefore, in 2000, both of them, the International Consortium and the company announced that they had a draft sequence of the human genome. This draft was very imperfect. It was full of holes, full of mistakes and then the International Consortium spend another three years to finishing it up. So, in 2003 then they said, okay, mission accomplished. Here is. You have the, you have a draft. Now where are we now with sequencing the human genome? Or many human genomes. Are we multiple drafts beyond? And are we reaching out to many people. Yes. See the original genome that was sequenced in the company. It was mostly the company CEO Quake Winters genome. But the international effort had many different people involved. So the genome was a composite of sequences of many individuals. And that's called the reference genome. But what you really want to know is, what is different between the genomes of different people who live in different parts of the world? And that was the next effort. And to, to really sequence individuals was known ethnic background and find out what are the variations between humans and that's when it really became interesting. And that took another ten years to become really useful to have that information. So, what does the size of a genome mean? Does it mean anything at all? Well there are some organisms with huge genomes, like the salamanders, you know? And what is all that sequence, it's probably has no information or content. Sometimes genomes get big because viruses get in, and they replicate. They make copies of themselves. And that has no useful function. So there is only a smaller part of the genome that's really important because it has function. And this is something we're still working on unraveling as a function. That was beautiful. I think that's all I want to ask about genome size. Okay, yeah. So now, as a natural segue-way, we're going to pick up into the coding regions. Mm-hm. And I'm going to let you say all of it. I'm just going to try to set you up, and then just let you talk about it, and I'll just ask follow-up questions. You can, you can go back and forth. More, more dialogue Oh, sure. Is fine with me. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's fine But you're doing a great job talking. So, like telling the story. Yeah, but I don't want to lecture, you know. [LAUGH] But that's okay. I mean, that's sort of the the idea of the interview [CROSSTALK] even here is. I want you to, to be free to tell the story. but I'll definitely ask questions here. Okay. so, we have 3 billion base pairs, in just one copy of the human genome. And we, we've learned that. You know, we have two copies of the human genome, of the nuclear genome in, in ourselves and we've been learning a bit about the coding regions, the protein coding regions. what, what can you tell us about the relative size of the protein coding regions of the genome versus the sort of non-coding regions? this was of course a motivation to start it. We want to find out all protein coding genes because these are the ones initially considered the most important part. And as you know, the protein coding genes are dividing into exons and introns and only the exons have the actual information for the amino acids. Has this been covered in the course? Yesterday. Okay. Well, hold on, actually, hold on, let me, let me think for a second. [CROSSTALK] No, this is lesson three. Okay, okay, so we don't know that yet. Okay, so the big question was how many protein coding genes are there in the genome. And initially, before the genome project [INAUDIBLE]. The number that's been kicked around was, like, a 100,000. Mm hm. Sort of a wild guess. And then, between 2000 and 2003, there was an official betting game going on. Where people could put down a dollar and a number. And then, years later, it was $5, and then it was $20. Because it [INAUDIBLE] became more difficult. And everybody could only put down one bet. About 150 people put down a bet. And their range, the ranges of their guesses went from, you wouldn't believe it. 25,000 to 150,000. Wow. So nobody had really any good idea. The mean was around 61,000 genes. And when the first draft was published, they said, why, we had a brief look at it, and we think it's within 30 and 35,000. And when it was finally finished, the number had come down to 20 to 25,000. And many people were surprised, because this is hardly any more than the roundworm, or the fruit fly. So the humans are so much more complex. Shouldn't they have more protein coding genes? Right. But there was a mechanism. How you can make many proteins from one gene. And this is called alternative splicing. You are going to get to this later in the course. That means you can take bits and pieces from one gene and you put them together differently, and then they encode different proteins. So the complexity cannot be immediately, deduced from the number of genes when you don't know what these, these genes can be used for. What percentage of the genome is actually made up of coding region, roughly? It's only 1 to 2%. And, so all this other, you know, 90, 98% to 99% then, I mean, a lot of people who, you know, are just learning about the genome may be wondering, what exactly is the rest of that sequence doing? You see, originally people thought it was just junk! It was just a virus getting in and replicating itself. And in recent years, people started to look. At how much of that sequence is being made into RNA? How much is being transcribed? And to everyone's surprise, more than 80% is actually made into a copy of RNA. And these RNAs have all kinds of interesting functions. For example, to regulate activity of other genes. To regulate the activity of messenger RNAs, how they are being translated, and many different functions that they always have. Some of them are structural, I mean, there are RNAs that has structural components of [UNKNOWN]. And otherwise, outside of the coding sequence, there are control regions that are important to regulate the activity of each gene. I see. So, we learn in this lesson about messenger RNA, mRNA. And so what you're saying, there are actually other kinds of RNAs that can be made besides mRNA that doesn't get turned into protein? That's right. And what was found out recently, that you remember, there are two strands in the DNA, and the messenger RNA's only made of one strand, that gives the formation for the protein. But what is being found out now is that there are antisense RNAs, that actually other strand of DNA can also be made into RNA. It goes in the opposite direction. It has no coding function for proteins, usually not, sometimes it does. But it has regulatory function. And you just can't imagine if a gene is transcribed in the other direction, then the transcription of the messenger RNA has a problem, you know. It runs into, it's a train wreck, quite So there's a regulation of gene activity by anti sense RNAs. That's one mechanism. Right, so it sounds like, maybe some of the complexity of different species or the complexity of cells is in, part not so much the, the share of content the number of genes you have, but maybe. How you regulate all of those genes together to, to create something. What we are finding out now is that the genomic regions communicate with each other. Like you can have an enhancer region that is downstream away from the gene, or even in an intron of another gene. But then folds over, communicates with the promoter, and sets in motion the messenger RNA synthesis. So the whole genome is three-dimensional, it's not just one dimensional series of letters. It is a lot of. Three dimensional arrangement and interaction that's very important for its function. We'll actually talk a lot, or a little bit more about that in lesson four, hopefully. You mentioned axon and entrons which are part of mRNAs, and the axons are the coding regions. The actual parts that get turned into protein and we seem to have, learned in our little time spent with the material that the exon seem much smaller in general than the introns. The introns seem to be very big a lot of times. do we know anything about the, the size of exons and introns and sort of. How or why that, that exists? There was a huge variation in the intron size. Some can be very small, and some can be absolutely huge. And we don't know exactly why that is. The last exon is usually larger than the other exons because it contains. The signatures stop, and then it's the untranslated region, which is important for regulatory purposes. And, introns in the middle of the gene, they can be tiny, or can be bigger, and we don't know exactly, I don't understand why it evolved this way. So, what are we still learning, in general, about the genome, and the coding, and the non-coding regions? are there any. Really important concepts or new findings that you think are really interesting that we're learning about, either the size of the genome or not so much the size but the number of coding regions, the amount of coding region, how it interacts. What we're learning about the genome is more about the function of the non-coding regions. You know, there are, for example, small nuclear RNAs. These are small RNAs that are part of a, part of the nucleus that are encoded in intron. And they are encoded in intron. When the intron is degraded, these little RNAs are released and they have very important functions in the body. And this was found out like, every research we did in our lab, when we compared the human and the mouse. The exon sequences did not code for protein, and they were not at all conserved. And the intron sequences were conserved, because that's where the functional units are located. So there're all kind of surprises. You know, you shouldn't only think the exon's important, the intron is junk and gets thrown away. Now it can be the opposite. you also mentioned repetitive DNA when you were talking about some of I guess the historical context of the genome and even once we sequenced it. If anyone does any research on their own they might find that there's still a lot of repetitive regions. What do we know about those in the genome? in most of them are just remnants, I mean they were copies made of some early viral intruder and now they are degenerated. They are bits and pieces of them, but there were still some active copies, and what they can do, they can still make copies of themselves, and they can jump around and insert someplace else in the genome. And actually cause problems. They can cause disease by inserting into an important protein coding genes. So we are not done with dealing with all these repetitive sequences. They're still changing, and that means there is huge variability from one person to another, as well. I think that's an amazing concept, too, to think about our genomes. We sort of think of them as, okay, we have this static genome. Mm-hm. And it may interact with itself to create a protein, or regulation, but. The genome itself is changing even today, like you said, these [CROSSTALK] moving elements. [CROSSTALK] It's still evolving. Well, what of I just maybe, oh, so, when people talk about variation in the human genome. Mm-hm. We often times talk about single nucleotide variants, which we'll come to in, in later lessons for, for our course. Is that the main kind of variation that exists in the human genome, are these single letter differences, or there are other kinds of variations that are important too? We have identified about 15 million single letter differences, so by sheer number, they are the most common. But then there are other varients, they are called copy number variations. Where whole chunks of the genome can be repeated, and they can be present in these two, three or many copies. And there are differences between human beings. So some people have two copies, some have five, some may have 12. And if you look at the total number of nucleotides involved in those. Then this is more common. So the individual copy number variance or CNV.'s are fewer than the ones we have identified for SNVs. But if you look at the amount of genomic sequence and worked in this type of what's called structural variation it, it involves the larger part of the genome. I see, so between single nucleotide variance and copy number variation. those are the two main kinds, or the two main forms of variations in humans. Yeah, then there are others like inversions where certain pieces of the genome can be turned around and some people and not in others. And even Translocations? How viable are translocations, and do they get propagated at all in a population over time, or are most translocations inviable? Well, we find them in families. You know, there are balanced translocations, where a piece of a chromosome is taken off and hooked somewhere else, or two pieces have been exchanged. And as long as they are balanced meaning that the right number of genes is there, people are fine. They wouldn't know about it, unless a break is in a gene but that's pretty unusual. The break is most often in a repetitive sequence. But then when these people may have children because of what happens in myosis, the chromosomes align and cross over. It's possible that a child inherits a chromosome that only has an extra copy, and does then get the other one that's missing something. Then you have an unbalanced translocation, and that can cause very bad developmental defects intellectual, def, deficits. These are the children who we see in the clinic, and we look at their chromosomes. And look at their parents and we see that translocation has been passed on through several generations already. But otherwise they don't last in, in population. Well, you were just touching on something that I want to us to move on and talk about for lesson 12 now. I want to know a bit more about your background and your experience. You have a lot of experience with human genetics and both in research but also clinically. looking at families and individuals with various phenotypes. I'd like for you to start maybe tell us when you first fell in love with genetics and when you started studying and sort of your journey to where you are today as a, as a Stanford professor. I went to medical school in Germany, and then I trained in pediatrics. I came to this country to train at Los Angeles Children's Hospital. And then I had to think about what else to do, and what I really wanted to do was endocrinology because I love biochemistry. I thought biochemistry was the best thing in medical school. But I couldn't get in as a foreign medical [INAUDIBLE]. And genetics was just in the beginning, starting to get interesting. It was at the time where it became possible to identify chromosomes by chromosome banding. And there weren't many people going into that field. Which had a great advantage because as a fellow at UCLA in human genetics I was allowed to do anything. I could learn chromosomes, biochemical genetics as well as see the patients on the wards where people said, oh what is this my formation, is it a syndrome, is it genetic, will it happen again? So the training involved from the beginning, clinical genetics and then as a sub sub specialties of genetics. [CROSSTALK] Well, I was going to say so did you, were you able to interact in, in, in, I guess, medical school and beyond as you were sort of discovering the area that you were sort of going to focus on for, for genetics. At the same time were you able to experience the clinical side of genetics as well? All the time. I was active in clinical genetics for the last 30 something years. And what does that involve exactly? Well, in pediatrics you're mostly focused on children having problems. So either children who inherit something. Or children who get very sick after they are born, because they cannot metabolize protein, there's something wrong in their metabolism. Or children who have certain birth defects, children who don't do well in school, who are late walking, who are late aquiring skills or have neurological symptoms. Seizures. So all kinds of problems that people didn't know, what is this? So there was a lot of discovery to do. We found out that certain clinical phenotypes were associated with chromosomal duplications or deletions, now that we could look at chromosomes in higher resolution. So that was a first stage [INAUDIBLE] or in the 70s, make discoveries this way. And now, of course, whole genome sequencing is applied to these children. And when nobody had, could figure out what caused their problem, you look at the whole sequence, and you can find a change. And that's been very successful in the last couple years. Since high, high throughput sequencing methods were developed. So, the exiting thing about my own career is a two-way street. It's always been two ways between the clinic and the laboratory. You see somebody fascinating in the clinic, and you bring samples to the lab, and you tell your PhDs. Look this is what the patients look like and we have to figure out what's going on here, and that gets everybody motivated. When you learn something in the lab, you find a gene like we found a gene for Rett Syndrome. And then you can figure out, can we do anything to help these patients now that we have the gene. We figure out it's function. In the last few years, we spent a lot of time making mouse models, because we looked at diseases that involved the central nervous system, and you can't go into a human brain and take a sample. I'm sure there are many ethical concerns there. I mean some people have part of the brain removed because of some medical indication, and then of course you can get it, but what we did make mouse models, because the genome is very conserved between the human and the mouse. And, even though we're working with deletion syndromes, where part of a chromosome is missing, we can define where in the mouse genome that part is located. It's got the same genes in it. Take it out in the mouse, and then you have mice that you can study the development, prenatally. Mm-hm. Afterwards, take the brain, cut it up, look at what's going on, and this is what we did mostly in, while in this millennium [LAUGH] I would say. [LAUGH] Well, it sounds like, I mean this is good, good old-fashioned science. Really good science. And, to people who aren't familiar, it sounds like detective work. You, you sort of establish what you see. You make an observation Mm-hm And then you go investigate. I'm, I'm really struck by, even still, by the idea that the human and the mouse phenome are similar enough that you're even able to do that. Can you speak for a second about, you know, working in genetics, especially with human genetics, where there Mm hmm Are so many limitations, about the constraints, but also the tools you have to answer certain questions, for people who may not be familiar with the idea that the mouse and the human genome are in fact quite similar. Well, the mouse is such a useful organism because mouse genetics has developed parallel to human genetics. And many mutations and phenotypes were spontaneously already detected in the mouse, so you already knew there was a mouse model for this disease, and you could go and study it right away. And for those where they did not arrive spontaneously, the mouse is ideal because you can manipulate the embryonic stem cells. You could introduce mutations in the mouse that you know exist in the human. Therefore you make a mouse model that exactly replicates, biochemically what's in the human. The mice don't always have the same phenotypes, obviously, because they have a much smaller brain and many other differences. Right, but they're similar enough that when you look at those differences or the what happens when you change the genetics of the mouse you can then adapt that back to the clinic sometimes. Well sure. You can also use the mouse to try out any drugs that you may come up with. Any ideas you have for treatment, you can give it to the mouse and see whether there is an effect. So, in, in, in your time, in your clinical and, and research experience, what what area did you focus on more specifically? What, what would you say is your, your general research subject? There were too many to mention. I really started out with whatever was possible to do at the time. You know, I was, in a way, driven by technology that was being developed, and I saw where this technology could be applied to the problem. So it started with cytogenetics. In the area of banding chromosomes, that was in the 70's. And then biochemical genetics, somatic cell genetics, meaning that you can fuse cells from different organisms and you can. Map chromosomes. So in the beginning of the genome project, we were very much invested in mapping genes to chromosomal regions. With the idea, if you have a gene that's been cloned, and you know the function, you map it to a chromosome region, where we already know a certain disease gene has been mapped. Then becomes a candidate gene for this disease. And that was a useful approach in the early 90s. Mm-hm. And then, as all these other technologies became available to study global gene expression patterns and doing mouse modeling, and we, then we moved to studying individual diseases, like Rett Syndrome. And Roberts Syndrome, [UNKNOWN] Syndrome and ultimately I thought the deletion syndromes where you take out a chunk of chromosome, and would be interesting because there are many different genes in there, and which of these genes contribute to what part of the phenotype? I found that fascinating. And that's, Was the project we were working on in the end. So it's a step wise process of discovery that makes use of the technology as it is being developed. So you can say it's opportunistic. Yes, it is. Ultimately my goal was always to find some treatment for some of these genetic diseases that we see in the clinic. What was one of your most exciting or fun discoveries in research, or in the clinic. Do you have a favorite idea or time or story? Yeah the most exciting was this new RNA, this small nuclear RNA that are in introns. Because this is a syndrome called PraderWilli syndrome. And what it looks like is that children are born very floppy and very difficult to feed. And what happens after a while, they get stronger and they start eating, and everybody is happy. Finally, Jimmy eats his food. And they start eating too much. And they become massively obese, if you don't watch it, in no time. So the problem was, what is going on with these children? And we, we tried to make a mouse to find out the deletion was quite large, four and a half megabases, several genes in it. And we found out there's many different things I can't explain in this short time. But that it's actually the [UNKNOWN] that is responsible. We made a mouse model, taking out just the [UNKNOWN] from the introns. And these mice, they don't get obese, but they don't stop eating. So it's the signal that tells you, I had enough. It's a satiety signal. That's missing. The children, they don't eat very fast. They just keep eating, keep eating. The mice do the same thing. So you were able to essentially sort of discover the genetic underpinning of that. Uh-huh. Is there any treatment that you were able to do anything with from medicine? Many people are now working on this. We made the mice. We let them, we distribute them to everybody who works on obesity. I mean, you can imagine If you figure out how this [UNKNOWN] is. What are the genes they are actually regulating? What are the mechanisms of action for the [UNKNOWN]? We don't know that yet. And so we hope that ultimately a treatment will come out not only for this rare condition called Prader Willi Syndrome, but maybe for people who have a problem with appetite. [INAUDIBLE]. What do you think is the most difficult part of your research that you've done, in general speaking, for maybe, research in general? What do you think is the most difficult part? Okay, not technologically difficult but in terms of managing and handling. Yeah. The most difficult part is if you feel you get unfair reviews, if there is competition with things going on in the background. You know, reviews of papers and grants are anonymous. And so you sometimes get reviews back that you think are totally unfair. And there's nothing you can do. You don't know, who's shooting from where. Right, [INAUDIBLE]. So that is the hardest part. Collaborations with people you know, you can manage. You know, you can, sometimes they go sour, but at least you know the person. You can sit down and say, hey, let's straighten this out. We had a difference and now we are friends again, right? Exactly. [LAUGH] And, if it's anonymous, You don't can only defend yourself. Sort of off camera or on camera, I know there are a lot of people who are pushing for to make peer review not anonymous because. Oh yeah. They want it to be, so that you can actually, you know call someone else and say, hey. That wasn't a far review. It, it, it's much more constructive. Yeah. So for example, I worked for a journal called Peer J. Peer, P, E, E, R, J. It's an open access journal. Where the people who agree to review, agree to make it, make themselves known. And then the whole correspondence between the reviewers and the original manuscript. And then the revision and everything is going to be online. So people can actually learn what happened during this review. And how did this reviewer improved the paper? Mm-hm. So the reviews you get back are. Really constructive, they give you all kinds of good ideas, what else you can do to make it better. Right. so does thinking about what you do as a career what do you think the future is for people who are interested in being clinicians, and bridging the gap between you know, people and the research that can help them? Do you think there's going to be a. A bigger opening in, in the future for people who want to do something similar to, to what you do? Mm-hm. While there was definitely a need, and there are many opportunities. But the drawbacks are, in genetics for example, we don't have enough people coming into medical genetics out of the medicine side. Because, in genetics, you don't make any money. We don't have procedures. We don't stick tubes into people that we can charge for. It's all cognitive. You know, you spend a lot of time going through complicated information. Searching the literature. Sitting down with the family counseling room. You don't get reimbursed much for this. Sure. And therefore it's not attractive, not if, not for people who went to American Medical Schools and to enter a career as a medical geneticist. So we have a shortage and many of the most successful people are foreign trained. Medical, medical doctors who don't have pay for their medical education. We hopefully have a real large international audience you know, participating in our course. What would you say to a student or in a lifetime learner who's watching and is really interested in the subject, and they'd even be interested in thinking about this as a career. What advice would you give them? I mean, I can only say this has been a lifetime learning experience to be part of genetics during those decades when everything developed and we are not done yet. I think it goes on and will be even more exciting. There are many secrets in the genome that are yet to be unraveled. And both PhDs and MDs should consider this. And then genetic counseling, that's a whole new career path. We have a training program here at Stanford for genetic counselors, the masters program. Because you don't have to have a PhD or an MD to tell people, this is what we found in your sequence, and this is what it means. And these people are trained specifically to do that. And we'll need a ton of them. Lots of them. So I want to encourage people to consider this as a career. Great. that's all the questions I have. Do you want to talk about your affiliation with 23 and me at all? Or do you want to just, sort of, leave it as the Stanford connection. I think I'd rather do this as a Stanford now. Uh-huh. Let's do that. Well, I'll open up to you, is there anything else, either about the genome subjects or about, you know, doing [INAUDIBLE] genetics research. If you ask me on [UNKNOWN] that would be another half an hour because as a lot's going on at 23 and me, I find exciting and why did I decide to work with them and how long have I worked with them and so. Should, you know, want a part of this. Is there anything else about the genome or the genome size? Anything I'd love to know, like when you teach genetics in the classroom. What do you, what do you say to students to get them excited about, genetics and the genome. what student, what students find exciting is often the applied part. You know bioengineering. Now that we find out the things about plants and, and what can we do to improve food supply for the world, bio genetic, bio, bio, engineo genetic, bioengineering. And also making models for diseases. This is the mice I just used as a matter of convenience because they're already genetically well studied organisms. The smallest mammal. But you would much rather have larger organisms, and now they're being able to make whole organs of the pig, for example. In, in vitro more or less. I mean all of this development are exciting. So I talk about induced pro importance stem cells. How you can make. Different set types and organs from [UNKNOWN], and how you can study diseases in a dish, you know, if the patient was Parkinson's disease, we can take a skin biopsy, make the cells into neurons, and then study the mechanism that, in the brain, gives these people Parkinson's disease. And those other side of the genome itself, I talk about repetitive sequences and they find this boring. [LAUGH] [LAUGH] That's exciting. yeah I was going to say, I find that the, the evolution of the genome itself is just fascinating, and I'm really intrigued by how people use genetic information to look back in time. to sort of look at connections, my, I, the lab I, in undergrad I worked in a yeast, a yeast lab, and was really interested in the bio-genetics of specifically the RNA, the C-terminal domain of RNA plurase two, it's very conserved, from yeast. You know there's no RNAs [UNKNOWN] have it already. [CROSSTALK] Yeah, these are ancient. You know, there wasn't RNA world before DNA even came in existence. Yeah, I know, it's fascinating, and I think maybe something, I do want to get this on camera. as a geneticist, human or otherwise, how do you know something's important? Is it the fact that you see it conserved in many different species? Or is there something else that, that goes on that tells you, okay this sequence or this event is really important? [INAUDIBLE] Finds what you think is important. If you're interested in the evolution, then anything that traces back to a lower organism and is conserved is, is interesting. Or changes through evolution are interesting, because then you can understand the underpinning of evolution. But if you want to find out what makes humans so special. Why do we have language? Why do we have ethical considerations? Then you look for something that you only find in humans and not in, in other organisms. So it depends what's interesting to you? [BLANK_AUDIO] my name is Jane Chueh, and I'm a clinical professor at the Stanford Medical School, Medical Center. clinically, I work as a high risk obstetrician which means we see high risk pregnancies, and I also do fetal ultrasounds on pregnancies in general, looking for fetal anomalies. What kind of, what makes a pregnancy at-risk or high risk? well, you know, every pregnancy deserves close scrutinization, right? And so we look at every pregnancy as if there could be something going on. And so we, at every ultrasound, we do that, particularly at the five month ultrasound, where we carefully go through the fetal anatomy. And so sometimes, even if you're 20 years old, things can happen that are unexpected and rare. we look at every fetus with that sort of light. There are other, other, you know, types of conditions that the mother can have that predispose them to being high risk. And some of those are if you're older, if you have diabetes, for example or some sort of, underlying medical issue like hypertension. So those things are, all play into our our pool of high risk. Sure. Now we've talked a lot in our lesson up to this point about how important the ABO blood type is for on our red blood cells. and I'm curious to know how blood type affects, possibly these regular or high risk pregnancies. So every patient that we see, we do require, that we know their blood type and RH type and I know you are talking a lot about the ABO blood system. it's important because at delivery there is a chance that they may bleed, whether they have a vaginal delivery or whether they have a c-section. sometimes they bleed, most of the time they bleed very minimally, and so they don't require transfusion but occasionally in rare cases, they have a lot of bleeding. and it becomes a very complicated case where they require lots of blood. if you need blood, then it's important to have the type of blood that the person receives match to their type. So we, we want to know what that is and in fact we actually require that they be typed twice. So they're typed at a prenatal visit and they are also typed when they come in before they receive blood. So there's two that, Is that important? That, that is important because you can't just could, it could be a mistake, I mean if one, if they had just one result. So the, the policy is that, there's two that actually correlate that, that they'rere the same, If you don't have a blood type then, and you need blood then the only option is, you know, the blood bank gives you universal donor, which would be O negative. but O negative is not the most common type of blood there is, and you know, you can't use up your entire pool of O negative blood. So, the best thing would be to, you know, give the person the type of blood that they actually have. Actually have a match. Yes. Now, you mentioned the ABO type is important. But you mentioned another factor, a positive or negative factor? Yes. Tell us about that. So in pregnancy, particularly the RH factor which is a rhesus blood group on the red cell is, is important. this refers to a group of antigens, the most common being the D antigen. And there's a D positive group, and there's a D negative antigen in other words you know, or say they're missing the D antigen. So everybody has two alleles, right? So there, they could be D positive, D positive or D positive, D negative or D negative D negative. So it's kind of like, the O type where O is nothing, whereas you have A, B or nothing. Correct, exactly, exactly. So, just like with A blood type, you can have homozygous A, which be A positive A positive, or a heterozygous A, which would be A plus O, A plus O. Right? Or AO. the rhesus group also is the same thing, so you can have D plus D plus, which would be homozygous D plus, or you can have D plus D negative, which would be heterozygous D plus, or you can have D negative. Which would be D negative, D negative. Right. And we'll learn a lot more about dominance, actually in one of our lessons, lesson 5. Where we'll learn that, the D plus allele, then is dominant? Right, right. And so this becomes an issue when, we find an Rh negative woman whose D negative, D negative. so if she, marries a partner, who is not Rh negative. In other words, he's Rh positive and he's either D plus D plus or D plus D negative, both of them of which are considered you know, D or Rh positive. then there's a chance that her child could be RH positive, either D plus, well actually it would have to be 100% D plus D negative, right? Right. Because one of the genes comes from her and it'll be D negative and the other one is going to come from her partner. So we need to know what her partner's genotype is, for the Rh antigen. And we need to know if the fetus has, you know, 100% chance of being Rh positive. Which this fetus would have if the father was homozygus, Rh positive. In other words, he had two copies of the D gene. that would obviously result in a fetus that's heterozygous, Rh positive. However, if the father is heterozygous and he's D plus, D negative, then there's a chance that her fetus will be Rh negative, which would be D minus, D minus. And so just to be clear here then, the risk here is that the mother would be Rh negative and the baby's Rh positive. Correct. And if the mother's and the baby's blood were to see each other, that the mother's blood might not recognize the Rh positive in the baby's blood and attack it or something? No, no, basic, if the mother's Rh negative and sees the Rh positive in the fetus, in the fetus blood, fetal blood, then it will recognize it as being formed. Because she's never seen the D antigen until she became pregnant, right? So what happens when that, so let's say you, you know, the scenario happens. What, what, what, what happens next? Right. So what happens is if that happens, then her antibody screen will come back positive, that she has an antibody. So that antibody would be against her fetus's D antigen, which is foreign to her and small titer is not an issue, but with over time the body has a memory. Snd so over time, it will mount a higher and a higher response. So, for example, usually the first pregnancy, the titers don't get to a point where they're concerning or that they will actually destroy the fetal, fetal blood. Because if, once the mother makes so much antibody against the fetus, the, the antibodies will cross and they will actually hemolyze the fetal blood. It'll attack, it'll attack the red cells because of the foreign antigen on the fetal blood. Mm-hm. So essentially what, what you're telling us is that, initial, so let's say a mother is having her first pregnancy and she's Rh negative, she's D negative and the baby's D positive. Even though she may have some antibodies that might attack it, because it's her first pregnancy there aren't that many antibodies. Correct. So it wouldn't be so bad, but maybe in her second or third pregnancy, she's have a lot more of those antibodies. Right. Exactly. Those antibiotics. Exactly. I see. So the first pregnancy, what we do is we find out that she's sensitized. That's what the word is, you know, when, when we find that she has antibodies already made against the D antigen. And we follow those titers of those antibodies and there's a critical titre above which we, then we start to get worried. Mm-hm. So as long as she's below that critical titre, then we just follow monthly with blood titers from her. Once she rises above that, then we have to start thinking, okay, is this mother going to mount, is, is she mounting such a high response that it's causing fetal anemia? And we actually have ways of looking for fetal anemia. The old fashioned way was to put a needle into the pregnancy sac, take out fluid and check for bilyruben, which is a breakdown product of hemolysis, right? And there's graphs, this curve called the Liley Curve, which you'd plot the points and, based on the gestational age. You'd find out whether there's a normal amount of bilirubin or an abnormal amount, which would indicate a high amount of hemolysis. Well, that was invasive and, you know, people would end up having multiple amniocenteses over the pregnancy, course of the pregnancy. And it wasn't that long ago, because when I trained, that was the way we treated sensitized pregnancies. But now, there's a non invasive way of monitoring for fetal anemia, where we use ultrasound, to look at the blood flow in the fetal brain. And what we do is we measure the peak velocity in the middle cerebral artery of the fetus. And we can tell whether the fetus is anemic, based on the velocity of flow. If, so then if, if they're anemic it, it slows? It goes up actually. It actually goes up? Yeah. So because, if you're anemic, what you're trying to do is you're trying to preserve flow to your most important organs and obviously, the brain is the most important. So, it shunts blood there and you'll have a higher velocity. So that's how, and then we have these elaborate curves now. That based on the flow the peak velocity in the middle, cerebral artery, we can tell, what the chances that this fetus has anemia. Wow. So, if it's high chance, you know, we might just skip the whole amniocentesis, and we usually do now, we don't go without, because it's so predictive. We just go in and we sample the fetal cord to check the hematocrit rate. And if it's low, then we transfuse. So we actually get in there, we're ready to transfuse. and we used O negative blood for the fetus, that is matched to the mother's, to make sure there's no antibodies that the fetus can't handle. And we check the keratin, but we usually have a idea where it might be and there's these charts that, so, if we find out the hematocrit is 10 or 15, then we know how much to transfuse. And then, we check the keratin, and if it's 10, then we know we have to give this many CC's of blood. So, what are besides the actual mother mother-fetus interaction, are there any other important clinical settings related to this or otherwise, where knowing blood type's very important? just the first one, you know for the mother, mostly for her safety, if she hemorrhaged during pregnancy or delivery, that she would need blood. And there are times when I guess, patients need a lot of blood, or a little bit of blood? I mean is there ever, is there ever been a scenario where you're like, oh gosh, I need this type of blood but you know, I don't have enough or. Yes. what do you do? So, it yeah, we have something called massive transfusion protocol. this happens when there's obstetrical hemorrhage disaster that happens. usually, if you have time, you try to give matched blood, and you know the, the person's blood type. Especially if you've anticipated the possibility, and she's already been crossed and matched. but, if not, then you know, you activate the protocol and you give O negative blood. And, and we've had cases where due to certain conditions of the placenta and the uterus, especially one called the placenta accreta. Where the placenta grows into the uterus, where you can't remove the placenta after delivery. We have to remove the entire uterus and there's so much blood flow, that they, the mothers lose so much blood they can receive, you know, 50 to 100 units of blood. what would be the reaction, I'm just curious, if the wrong blood type was administered? what happens to the patient? so they can have a transfusion reaction, which we'll need to look up in a book, I mean, I'm, I know, I know what it's like but it's, basically, they get very, very sick, you know? It, it, they get high fevers, they I think they start hemolyzing, basically. All of their blood cells, you know. And, I know that we can, there's a, there's a mild transfusion reaction, where you can prevent a little bit of that by giving some pre-medication. But then, if it's truly unmatched blood, then, you, you could die from that. Well, that raises just sort of I guess an interesting question. Do you know your blood type? I do. Oh. it's B positive, but I don't remember the scenario, I've never received blood. I think I just asked my parents one time and they knew, but we have people coming all the time and they don't know. We, we do a procedure and we need to know their blood type. Oh so, here's another, another scenario we need to know their blood type. I forgot to mention, if you're RH negative, so we can't obviously type every single RH negative person, you know, what their fetus is, because you don't want to invasively go in there and check. We also don't need to, to check every father and unless there was some sort of issue. So for all of the, sort of, the general RH negative women, they receive something called RhoGAM during pregnancy. RhoGAM is an immuno-globulin that blocks the antigens on the red cells. So, if you might imagine the fetal cell trying to get into the maternal circulation. if it got in there the RhoGAM would just attach itself to all the sites, bind all the sites, so the mother can't see the antigens. That's clever. And, you can't, she won't amount, she won't mount to response. So that way, if the fetus happened to be RH positive, I mean, RH positive, that's correct, then she won't see the positive, D antigen. And so that's what we use RhoGAM for. RhoGAM is given in the middle of pregnancy, around 28 weeks, on all R Rh negative women, just by the chance of perhaps, that fetus might be Rh positive. How many are Rh negative in general? So about 5% of the Caucasian population in the United States, are Rh negative. I see. So they receive RhoGam at 28 weeks, and also after delivery if the fetus, or the newborn now, obviously after delivery, is RH positive. So that she doesn't mount a response you know, by, because during, during the delivery process there's some mixing of blood between the fetus and the mother. So, and you mentioned now, so, I guess we've learned about ABO and sort of this new antigen RH. Are there other antigens on the red blood cells that we care about too? Yes. Actually, there's two pages, very small print, of other antigens that are on the red cell antigen, on the red blood cell. And some of them, the most common one is kell. Kell for it's, it's not common, because, as, it's most of the population is Kell negative. So, it's only an issue if the mother has somehow received blood from a Kell positive person, and then she saw that as being. Foreign as she mounted the, Kell antibody, right? Because most people are Kell-negative and they meet a Kell-negative person and the reproduce and there's no issue because there's compatibility. but if you happen to be Kell-negative and have the antibody, then that could be an issue because your fetus. Could be Kell-negative and you know, you could suffer, the fetus could suffer from that. So, again, we go through the same thing of monitoring for fetal anemia if the mother is has the antibodies to Kell. So it sounds like even in pregnancy and even otherwise knowing your blood types could be really important. So, we do have people come in for procedures that, like amniocentesis, and if they're RH negative and they're not sensitized. They have no antibodies, and we don't want them to be sensitized, so they would get RhoGam. So we do need to know their blood type and their RH type for that reason. We don't really need to know the ABO at that point because we're not giving blood. But we really need to know their Rh type because if they're Rh negative they would get RhoGam. most people don't know their blood type. I don't know that, that's a critical thing, you know, right this minute. But, obviously, you know, it, the time of birth or you're going through some sort of procedure surgically, the hospital would say oh, you need to be typed. Just in case, you know there's a significant risk that you might receive some blood. You should be typed. Great. I, I want to just finish up. I'l love to just hear a little bit more about your background and how you actually found yourself in the sort of OB realm of medicine. well, I think like you, in high school biology, I was really interested in reproductive medicine, I just thought it was very beautiful, just how, you know. The life is created and all the different things that have to go right, in order to, to create a, a new person. and so from that intellectual interest I carried that into medical school. when I did my OB rotation I found the people who were in OB were very upbeat and optimistic. And energetic, in general. And I think, you know, because most of our outcomes are good, it's not, it's in general a happy field because we get to see beautiful babies, and twins, and triplets, and some quadruplets. So, there all kinds of things, and yet, there's another component where it's very intense with, you know, fetal anomalies. Also, high-risk mothers, that have had bad histories where they've lost pregnancies and they're hoping to get a good one this time. So, there's a whole mixture of both happy and yet very intensely, possibly sada that we feel like we can do. You know, make a difference with. And so, that's, that's what drew me to OB. And that's why I like high-risk OB. Because of the chance to be able to help people who have not had such a great outcome in the past. How do you see genetics playing a role in the future of both, you know, OB pregnancy and maybe medicine in general? Well, genetics is really the future, you know, I mean, it's occurring, and the knowledge that's happening in genetics is occurring at such an incredible speed. It helps us every single day. I mean, when we, when we see an ultrasound, we wonder if this is a genetic thing. We wonder if there's testing for it. We wonder if we can do it for maternal blood, or whether we need to do an invasive procedure to find out what the answer is. So all those questions, you know, can change from, like, week to week, and so. It's truly amazing what genetics has, has been able to offer us. one example I just want to give you is this Rh group system again. So, in the past, if the father had the D antigen and could pass it to the fetus. And we weren't sure if the fetus had it or not. We would have to do an invasive procedure. like an amniocentesis. Or something called [UNKNOWN] sampling. Which is done in the first trimester. And that would be, be able to type the fetus's genome type for our, the Rh, group. in the future, you know, they're hoping to be able to do this on maternal blood. And that's a, that's a step forward in genetics because eventually hopefully, we can avoid having to do invasive procedures to, to get information. And already we're moving in that direction. And even with testing for Down syndrome. It's moved into the, the maternal blood. So we're doing much fewer and invasive procedures, because of that. So what's the basis behind that? Just really quickly, is that the fact that there are blood cells from the, Yes, so there are blood, they're actually it's not blood cells around there, now, we're talking about DNA. So there's free-floating DNA from the fetus. From the fetus? From the fetus. In the mother's circulation. They were, for many years, looking for intact cells, but it turns out intact cells are problematic because they can last for a long time. They can even be from a past pregnancy. So, but free-flowing DNA is very short-lived, or relatively short-lived. [INAUDIBLE] hemolytic event. Yes, there' actually some apoptosis, which is a word meaning cell death. And so these cells that die. And they're supposed to, you know. They turn over, release their DNA, and they're found in maternal circulation. And because of our incre, incredibly technology, we're able to detect such minute amounts of DNA, and be able to separate that from the maternal in a very complicated fashion which I won't go into here. but by using those techniques, they're able to determine, like for example, the fetal Rh type by just drawing blood on the mother. Now, it's not perfect yet. I mean, and I think a test like this has to be perfect because you don't want to misdiagnose, for example, and tell the patient that your fetus is D negative and it's not at risk. When actually, it was D positive. So you can't tolerate any mistake right, you can't have any error in this part. Has to be 100% accurate. So when it becomes like that then we could possibly, possibly diagnose [UNKNOWN] blood. With Down syndrome I think it's already very close I mean it's something like one in 10,000 risk if you have a negative test on the blood. Yeah. So they are able to reduce your risk to a very, very, very low number based on that. So I think, you know, genetics is fascinating. That's another reason I went to high-risk OB, because I really love genetics. I actually did a genetics fellowship, in addition to my high-risk OB fellowship. So it was a nice supplement because a lot of it goes hand into hand and everything you see now in OB and ultrasound, pre natal ultrasound, is tied into genetics, somehow. Very cool, thank you for what you do, and for interviewing with us. Oh, my pleasure, my pleasure, thanks a lot. Yeah thanks. Okay. My name is Bill Durham. I'm Bing Professor in Human Biology and Human Biology and Anthropology at Stanford University. Well, we're really happy you're joining us especially to talk about a very important concept. Now, we've been learning about lactose intolerance and about the idea that as all infants. We have the ability as mammals to digest these lactose containing products. And as we get older our lactate expression diminishes. But in some people, the lactate gene sort of stays on, and we continue to make lactates. And so we'll start of by asking why in human evolution would something like this happen? How could something like this even happen? Well, from a pan-mammalian background where the lactase activity peaks around birth and then tails off quickly into the weaning period and into adulthood. We assume, we know that that's pan-mammalian. Even your house cat is lactose malabsorbed. A malabsorber or lactose intolerant. at least every house cat that's been tested is. Eve, even those people will give milk to their house cats. And what we don't know is whether the people have found the threshold or the cat's found the threshold to avoid diarrhea and other consequences. What's interesting then is from that background of a peak, some human populations show persistent lactase activity, into adulthood. While the majority continue to decline. So it's that minority of lactose tolerant adults that are really fascinating. It's a wonderful question because here's a case where you have interest specific polymorphism. You have existence and if the ongoing persistence of a genetic difference between human populations. With regard to some relatively simple trait and a trait that has to be relatively recent in human history. Sure. There were no sources of milk prior to dairy animals. So what we have here is, I mean other than mother's milk there were no mammalian sources of milk for human population before agriculture and so here we have. Right, there's this, right, I was going to wonder too, you know, the idea that. I mean, are we the only species that actually drinks the milk from another species as, as well? I'm not aware of any species that makes a habit of drinking the milk of another species. I'm aware of infants of, a particular, an infant of a particular mother, nursing from another mother. That happens in pinnipeds; it happens in several mammals. It's considered milk stealing. and obviously, there's great reward to the successful pup, but, I'm not aware of another case where, especially, where infants or adults drink milk from another mammal. That's a, that's a good question, I really don't, just don't know an answer to that. so we have this scenario then as you mention where we have this sort of minority of people who, instead of having lactase expression diminish over time it's, it's, it's persistent lactase. Persistent lactase activity into adulthood. Uh-huh. Sure. Now, you mention that it seems to be relevant specifically because of the recent evolution of this trait. Mm-hm. Because the domestication of dairy. Uh-huh. So we assume that the pan-mammalian background means that at the dawn of history human populations were all lactose intolerant. And that there would be at best a mutationally low frequency of individuals that varied on that characteristic. And because it was a very low variation, and there was no milk available, we would have no way of knowing how much there was, or how often it recurred and so on. But what we have then in the meantime is this great invention called agriculture. The domestication of plants and animals at the service of the human food supply. We have every reason to believe that the main animals that are used for milk today, were originally domesticated for meat. They were valued first for meat, and that milk was as the, expression goes, were part of a secondary products revolution. Where they realized that you could use more than the meat from these animals, goats, sheep, you know, cattle and so on. And so, they already probably had them in close association with human communities, they were probably already harvesting the meat regularly. They probably had mastered overwintering, water supply, herding activities, and that sort of thing. And then suddenly there's evidence for using the, the milk product of these animals. some of the earliest evidence comes from Sahara rock paintings that are dated to 4500 B.P. that show, in fact, bringing the calf up, near the female, the adult female. And human being underneath. Now we infer that the human being underneath is doing this, what else is a human being doing under a cow? [LAUGH] But that's some of the earliest evidence, and what's interesting is that they bring the calf up, to trigger the letdown reflex in the, in the cow so that the humans can take the milk. And to this day, farmers will tell you, there's lot of ways to induce that reflex. But one of them is bringing the calf up. That makes so much sense. [INAUDIBLE]. It's like a woman hearing a baby cry in a department store. Absolutely, yeah. And she starts lactating. huh, yep. Absolutely, same thing. And so, It's clear, then. Or we surmise, from this history, that, milk was valued. Or that cattle were valued first. For beef, or for their meat product, and then later for milk. Milk was a secondary product. It wasn't very effective. And the question then became, well what was the advantage of milk on top of the meat? If you've already got an addition to your food supply, why is it that milk suddenly is valuable? That's triggered the most debate and the, and the most interesting research, I think. now the question really was, what was the added value. Of drinking fresh milk? It's complicated on the one hand, because you had the meat value of these animals you domesticated. So, it seems unlikely that it would be just protein or food supply, yet that was an important early argument. And the question, and, and, it's also complicated because There are ways to get some food value from milk without drinking it fresh. You can all societies that I know of have ways of processing fresh milk. Into low lactose forms. Sour milk is a low lactose form. All the things like yogurt and kefir. Drinks that are widely known in some places. And most cheeses. Mm hm. Break down the lactose externally, using lactobacillus bacteria. Using a separation of curds and whey. Lactose is water soluble. It drains off with the whey, and the curds are free of lactose. So most cheeses have very little lactose concentration, something like yogurt is full of lactobacillus that's already digesting Sure. The lactose for human consumption. So here's the real challenge. In a world where most populations. Huh, sorry. In a world where most populations have ways to process milk and to get everything that's in the milk. Mm-hm. Why would some populations still evolve this persistent lactase activity? Sure. Because there are external sources of lactase, why does it have, why, what was the advantage of producing it internally to the human organism? And that's the question that I focused on early on because I thought that was just so very fascinating. On top of the food value, on top of whatever you can get from yogurt and kefir and cheese and sour milk. Wh-, what, what's the advantage of drinking fresh milk as an adult? Especially when so many societies must have regarded it as repugnant, because it would cause diarrhea. Sure. To humans, it was. You're intolerant. And you know, the debate is still running. But the theory, the leading theory that I like, is the, and that the data seems to support, you know in science knowledge is always tentative. So I want to put that out there, and, you know, I will sound like I'm convinced of this but, you know, I think we're all maintaining a healthy skepticism. But the leading argument of the day is that calcium. That the advantage of drinking fresh milk is the advantage of an additional calcium supply, especially in areas where there is a calcium deficiency caused either by inadequate calcium in the diet. Well, that's not too likely if you're being, drinking milk. Sure. but a vitamin D scarcity. Vitamin D is in turn photosynthesized in the skin in response to sunlight. So that immediately suggested to me the possibility that as you depart from low latitudes of high ultraviolet light, you would encounter chronic built-in geospatial curves of. ultraviolet light deficiency and therefore a vita-, which is what's required for. Sure. Vitamin D synthesis. And therefore Vitamin D scarcity with latitude. Now we learn actually in lesson six of our course. We go and learn about mutation and variation, and we use skin pigmentation as an example. Oh, perfect! And so this is parallel. [CROSSTALK] So my hypothesis is that this was completely parallel. In fact in Co-evolution, the book that that I written on this, I have an appendix on epidermal demelanization. to show the efficacy of the altitudinal gradient. In ultraviolet light, and vitamin D, and in calcium based selection for epidermal demelanization, so I like that as a background, and I'm just saying, look if it's plausible there, look at the argument we can make here. And then people say, what's the advantage, milk is obviously rich in calcium, but what's the advantage of having, why can't you again just eat the yogurt? huh. And why can't you again just eat the milk product, the cheese? Which is going to have the calcium in it. Except for the water soluble calcium, which you might lose some of. What's interesting was some research on what's called the lactose effect. If you feed human infants from birth in a controlled comparison cow's milk, from birth, or mother's milk, versus soy milk, you see beginning in a matter of a few days, You see a big differential in the amount of bone absorbed calcium. In other words the calcification of bone is enhanced. You can, this is controlling for the amount of calcium. You take soy milk and you supplement the calcium in it so that it matches the cows milk. They have the same calcium and the presence of the lactose enhances the absorption of the calcium according to this, these data. Now, it's a magnificent curve and if what it shows is that the ability to drink fresh milk has the advantage of making the calcium that's there an equal proportion in the two milks That makes it more available, to the infants who can absorb who can digest the lactose. there's a mechanism suggested for this. It has to do with the transphosphorylation of of one of the opening up of a calcium channel. In the, in the jejunal region of the brush border membrane cells, the jejunal region of the small intestine, and that it's the removal of a blocking phosphate that, on to the splitting lactose molecule that opens up the channel And that lul-, the presence and the, and the breakage of the lactose molecule opens the channel for the entrance of the calcium. So that lactose is like vitamin D. And so, and just to be clear, it's not even, maybe not per se the lactose itself, but the lactose, the action of lactose metabolism. Correct. It enhances the calcium uptake. Correct. Now I have to ask you. So that's like wild, because that's like saying, okay, they work differently. VItamin D works by enhancing calcium binding protein which actively absorbs it, but it's in both cases, the action of the Vitamin D mechanisms brush border cells of the jejunum of the small intestine and so is the lactose effect. Right there in the same. Epithelial lining. So it's pretty exciting actually and it suggests then that one reason that infants don't need a lot of sun exposure at least to the best of my knowledge, is that they have the lactose effect at the same time as they have. Mm-hm. And that those people who have the gene for persistent lactase activity continued to enjoy the lactose effect in those years all the way out for the persistent lactase activity. So what's particularly interesting about that is that it's saying that lactase persistence compensates for the vitamin D deficiency Mm hmm That's built into the solar radiation pattern on the surface of our Earth. So that milk, like epidermal demelanization, they follow similar curves. Mm-hm. And that you get the persistent lactase activity, and lac, lactose tolerance at high latitudes. Right, and so just to sort of re-word what you say here to make sure, you know, we're clear on this. In the case for skin pigmentation, as you sort of alluded to, the idea is, as human migration moved away from the equator. Yeah. To higher and I guess even, I guess we should also say lower latitudes. Yes. They had less sunlight, and so they had to. Well, you can say higher latitudes north and south. Sure. Higher latitudes north and south. they lost pigmentation in the skin because they needed to let more sunlight in for Vitamin D. There was selection for the entrance of more sunlight. It wasn't that they recognized a need. Yes, exactly. [LAUGH] The same with milk. It wasn't that we are sitting around here. Wow, hoping and wishing we could have another source of calcium. What's happening is that those that happened. To have this out-reproduced by. You can even test whether it's a 3%, a 2%, a 5%. How much does the difference have to be in the long run in terms of differential survival and reproduction in order for this to work out in the time frame that we have from 4500 years BP or whatever? And I'm one of those who thinks that it's a pretty small advantage. Pretty small advantage, but persistent generation after generation, no fail. It's there. If you have the lactose mechanism for absorbing calcium and making strong bones less likely to have Rickets. Less likely to have Harrison Sulcus. Less likely to have broken bones in young adulthood. Mm-hm. And all those things you'll have that rigid calcification of bone which you can see starting right out in infancy with the lactose effect. I mean that, that's amazing, can you give us some idea, maybe about, the time scale that it spread on Mm hmm And also, some maybe idea of the, the rate of the spread. As well, as the point of origin geographically. Yeah, so what we understand today, I'm drawing mostly on the work of Sarah Tishkoff a geneticist who has looked at the question of origins, first of all, we think there are multiple. I like to call it the big L gene. So I'm going to just use that. It's almost slang for me. Sure. It's not that technical name, but it makes it easy for persistent. We use. We use L plus and minus Okay So we do plus and minus. Alright, I'll. L plus is persistent lactase activity? Exactly. Alright. So L plus. And what she shows is that no all L plus genes are the same. Really? Yup. And that there are at least four different origins of the big O. Of the O plus gene. and they're broken up by different language families. So we're pretty clear that they had an independent origin. But the selection pressure is strong enough. So there's a northern European one, and then it turns out that there are some on the equator in milk dependent pastoral peoples where the advantage of drinking milk might not have to do with calcium at all. It might have to do with water availability, fluid availability, electrolyte availability. If you live in a desert And you've got this cow who can concentrate for you from sparse vegetation and dew. hmm. Into a drinkable, water-based product. There's a huge advantage especially during drought seasons and so on, so it's quite possible that those genes had a different selection pressure. That's amazing. So, I mean, so we just learned also about the concept of an allele. And I hear you use the word gene. huh. And just to clarify for us, we would say there are four different lactase persistent alleles. Yes, there is. We discussed one in particular. huh. that's actually. Is reported in personal genetics reports at places like 23andMe, but, so it's very interesting that there are multiple other alleles that could cause lactase persistence. It, it's not clear to me that, that the, that the instruction in the gene itself is different, but the genetic environment is different enough so that there are markers to show us that it had a different origin. Right. Which is, which is a, a really compelling, Now you said there are possibly four different alleles that allow for this. That's correct. And there's, you mentioned a higher latitude origin, and then even an origin in milk dependent populations near the equator, That's correct. Are there two other origins as well? Or are those? There are three near the equator, and then there's the one that has evolved to high frequency in northern Europe. And so is the one from northern Europe the most dominant? The most dominant in the sense, they're all dominant genes. Well, prevalent, I should say. They, they reach very parallel, very parallel frequencies. They reach very high frequencies both in these milk-dependent pastoral populations in the deserts of the equator. hmm. The Sahara Desert and surrounding environment. And then the peoples who live at high latitude in, you know, Denmark. What's today Denmark and Scandinavia in northern Europe. So the frequencies are comparable. Which is interesting, but not too surprising if a, we've had 4500 years for this to evolve. And b, if you have re, relentless selection pressures because of the advantage of calcium, or the advantage of electrolytes and water. those are both pretty compelling problem, pressures. I don't know, I've spent some time in the desert. [LAUGH] And I find it very convincing. If you're out of water in the desert, life is tough, yeah. And a cow is a wonderful device for giving you water if the wells are dry. If the fields. Sure The crops failed, amazing to think that a cow might be a water tank in the, in the, it might be a calcium device in the north, and a water tank. Yeah. at the Equator. Even if there are negative side effects and you're not. Absolutely Completely tolerant, I mean it's worth it for the hydration. but they are, you see, that's again, they've evolved the high frequency of the gene of lactase persistence. Now, it's true, not everybody. Not everyone in the society, the gene is not at fixation, as we would say. It's not at 100%. But for the small number of people who have diarrhea now there's another, this is this is where I come back to the difference between intolerance and absorption because you can take a malabsorber. So in a population of these pastoralists, living on the equator with a gene that is not a fixation, some people aren't going to produce lactase. And, so therefore, you expect them to be intolerant but what's a really interesting thing if you look in the legal documents in the last few years, someone in the US has taken a patent. On a process for converting intolerant individuals to tolerance without changing their genetics. And the way it goes is that you keep giving them the low dosage of milk a long enough time. They suffer diarrhea, diarrhea, diarrhea until their intestinal microflora change. And the result is they become tolerant malabsorbers. Now their genes haven't changed. They still lack lactase. They can't produce lactase. But now they're tolerant. So guys have already taken out a patent on this, which was in fact in the folklore in a number of places, that if you. Could grin and bear it for awhile. You, yeah. Drinking milk you could induce tolerance in yourself. You could make yourself. You could go from being tolerant and feeling bloated and diarrhea and all that. You could come out the other end without those symptoms. So it's possible that in fact, and even in those societies where milk is so important as an electrolyte source of electrolytes in water, it's possible that what they've done is introduced, most people are lactose absorbers, and that would help with, the, for the majority of the population. And it's possible that they induce tolerance in the malabsorbers. Now, I'm speculating, because I haven't tested that. No. I mean, it even sounds reasonable. Because 23andMe and other places will report. They'll give you your genotype. And they will say, likely tolerant, or likely intolerant. Exactly. Because they're also aware of the gut microbiota. Absolutely. That can essentially metabolize the lactose for you. Exactly. Now, I wanted you to mention. Or buffer you. From the diarrhea effects so that maybe you're not even getting, you may not be getting the full food value, but you're at least not getting the negative effects. Negative symptoms. How, what proportion of the world is considered to be lactose tolerant or not malabsorbers? personally, I go with in, the figures vary usually people put it between 70 to 80% lactose intolerant. I would put it as 70, 80% lactose malabsorber, because I don't really know about the, the, the symptomatics of it. How many, how many people have the symptoms? and that it would therefore be 20 to 30%, adult persistent lactase activity. Uh-huh. And would we assume then that in regions of the world particularly South America, maybe East Asian Pacific Islands would be the areas where we have the least amount of lactase persistent individuals. And tropical Africa in the zone where. Tsetse flies discouraged cattle domestication. The geographer Fred Simuns did a wonderful study years ago showing that the tsetse belt of Africa. there is there are no lactose absorbers in that zone. That was one of his first clues. Is that where the tsetse flies discouraged cattle by the economic disadvantage of sick cattle. Sure Which isn't going to work because they all have sleeping sickness and you can't make them economically productive. There's no milk and there has been no milk for as long as there has been tsetse flies and the tripanosome, the parasite, that causes African sleeping sickness. And that is a, a long history, a long time ago. So, what Simoons went on to argue is that this is an area, the tropical belt of Africa with its tsetse fly. It really kind of spans the equator in Tanzania and Kenya, and so on. There's a belt there that with the, with the high-density of tsetse flies where, that it's never paid to cultivate cattle, and they're lactose malabsorbers. Gosh. Fascinating, isn't it? because right nearby, outside the tsetse zone, are the milk dependent pastoralists that have high levels. So it's a wonderful example of geography, culture, human history, and genetics all working together. Perfect for a biological anthropologist. Yeah, perfect for [LAUGH] exactly. There's one more interesting case that's really fun to talk about. Oh, yeah, I want to hear it. And that's the Inuit. The Inuit are heavily melanized dwellers of the arctic. They moved across the Bering Strait, sometime, say, in the last 20,000 years, and there they are with darker skin than you'd expect in the Arctic. And very low rates of rickets. Almost no rickets. They also aren't lactose absorbers. So what do they do way up there in the land of chronic vitamin D deficiency, very low ultraviolet? How do they make it work? It turns out that before missionaries, they had a practice of eating. Raw pinniped livers. Pinnipeds in turn feed on cod and small fish like that that non-photosynthetically generate vitamin D, and by eating enough of the livers of the pinnipeds they concentrate the Vitamin D from this non photosynthetic source. And so they persisted with little evidence of selection against epidermal melanization, and little evidence of selection for anything like a milk tolerance and so on. And what's so amazing is when missionaries came in and said, oh my gosh that's barbaric, cutting up a seal and eating raw liver for the delicacy? That's disgusting, stop doing that. Rickets broke out. So, what's so interesting? I mean, an epidemic of rickets that was terrible, crippling, for Inuit populations. What's so wonderful about this example? It shows there's multiple ways to, to, to beat the rap on calcium. Epidermal demelanization may work. The ability to drink milk in adulthood may work. And harvesting pinniped livers may work. And all of these are interesting and diverse solutions to this chronic problem built into our globe of, of, of, calcium absorption, calcium deficiency. that really is amazing. I want to ask you one more question. being sort of thinking from the anthropological side of things as well. What do you think of the biggest consequences of a growing human population, with lets say even 20 to 30% that are able to metabolize, lactose because of lactase persistence, are there any major cultural or other changes that have happened? one of the most interesting consequences of the discovery of adult lactose tolerance and intolerance which came about in the 1960s in the US, was that we needed to rethink our food aid. Can you imagine? We sent thousands of pounds of dried powdered skim milk to lactose malabsorbing adults all over the world. It was food aid. Now if you stop to think about it, that's like sending a laxative. Yeah. [LAUGH] Big bags of a laxative brought to you by the friendly people of the United States of America. [LAUGH] And this came to my attention before I even heard of the phenomenon of lactose intolerance. I was touring. I, I did some field in rural El Salvador. I was working a tiny community called [FOREIGN]. The mayor was taking me around town. Showing me this is our grainary. This is our well. He took me to the school house. And we walked in and met the children. The teacher turned them out so they could come out and sing a song for me, or whatever. And then walked through the school, looking at the very simple infrastructure of the school. And in the corner were all these bags of donated US dried skim milk. And I said [FOREIGN] why, why are the bags in the school? Why aren't people using? Oh, don't worry he said [FOREIGN] don't worry, we do use the powder in those bags. At least twice a year we get the comunity together. People bring buckets. We'd put the bags. the powder in the bags and water together when we whitewashed the schoolhouse. [LAUGH] We were very grateful for the ability [LAUGH] to whitewash the school house. And I said but why, why, why, do you use it as whitewash? He said, because the people here get sick if they eat that as a, the intended food product. And you just imagine, then, in the ethnographic literature, there's stories of people in Bali, lining up to receive small vials to put it in their family apothecary. Mm-hm. Family drug supply. If they ever need a laxative, they can take U.S. food aid. But we sent thousands of pounds a year of dried, powdered skim milk to a population where 80% are lactose malabsorbers. As a general human population. I think that's one of the least exposed and, and most obvious gaffes, of assuming that what's true in our society. We have a high frequency of lactose malabsorbers because of the Northern European population that was important in the founding and, and the relative growth rate compared to the Native Americans of [LAUGH] the United States, so we have a high, relatively high frequency of lactase persistence. In adulthood. Mm-hm. And we assumed, oh just look at the billboards and things we had. Everybody needs milk. Mm-hm. You never outgrow your need for milk. Or remember that curve, you exactly do outgrow your need for milk. And most adults do. But yet, we had this cultural, let us say, a cultural cocoon that said oh, people, everybody needs milk. You never outgrow your need for milk. Milk does a body good. We had all these messages, and so we started shipping milk powder, thinking it was easy to concentrate, Right? You can take milk and make it dried skim milk. You could ship it quickly. It stores well. The schoolhouse in [FOREIGN] I'm sure still has some in the corner [LAUGH] and people found lots of different ways to use it. Wow. Amazing. That is an amazing story. It is. And so what that helps you to realize is that. it's important, I think especially important for North Americans to open their eyes and realize that what our genes encourage by way of cultural activities and, and cultural environment is not necessarily the same for the rest of the world. That's exactly right. That's really all the questions I have. Is there anything else you would ask? It's a classic example, you know. It's such a wonderful example of the interplay of, of genes and of culture. we often use it for that. Mm-hm And model genes and cultures, two parallel tracks and semi-independent tracks of inheritance. And what's so great is in this particular case you can see how well there's an environmental challenge coming through in lysine and calcium. And you can see how you could change your culture and adopt the drinking of pinniped livers and solve the problem. We can see how you can evolve a high frequency of the big L gene and solve the problem. Or you can live someplace, where that problem is less. Mm-hm. And and the problem is actually, maybe protecting yourself against sunlight and, and ultraviolet, and so therefore the high melanization. What I love is this, this idea that, to understand the human organism, you can't just study the genes. Or the culture, you have to have 'em both on the table. And you have to think about both of them. How they interact, how they may compensate for one another, how they may influence one another. Because a totally successful adaptation on the part of demelanization would have. If it had been completely successful, you would be not very likely to see the evolution of lactase persistence. Mm-hm. But it solved the problem. And what it shows you is that it helped. But that, that there was, there is still a recurring calcium deficiency at high latitude. Which we know from records and, other things. So I just love this idea that the, the, the study of the human organism involves thinking about different kinds of inheritance and their interaction in time. Thank you so much. Of course. Thank you. So, my name is Kelly Chen. I consider myself a Bay Area native. I grew up in Fremont, and I'm a Genetic Counselor. And technically, I guess my title is Perinatal Genetic Counselor. So I focus on patients who are pregnant or thinking about pregnancy. And as a Genetic Counselor, are there sub disciplines like, I mean are there Genetic Counselors who focus on sort of the non perinatal aspect? Certainly, so this profession is still pretty new. I think in the beginning, there weren't that many specialties. It was either pediatrics children, and, and prenatal was the second I think, as, as soon as pregnancy tests started. And since then, there are several specialties. The big ones are pediatrics, prenatal, cancer has become the hot new thing. counselors who work in a laboratory. And then specialty counselors, who work in certain disciplines like cardiology, or neurology, or. I see. And what are the, what are the various backgrounds? Do all genetic counselors have the same academic training? Or, or, do they have diverse academic training? So, yeah. So, counselors come from a wide variety of backgrounds. they do have in common that they have to have a masters degree. And the Masters degree programs require an undergraduate, usually 4 year college. But, and some prerequisite science courses, biology, chemistry. but other than that you can be any major. So, my classmate was a psychology major. I was a genetics major. some people were completely not really into either specialty as long as they finish their courses. And did you always know you wanted to be a genetic counselor, or was this a later decision or? So, it's very interesting. I'll tell you this story, and I like to share it when I give talks, that I didn't find out about genetic counseling until about a year after I graduated from undergrad. I went to UC Berkeley, and I knew I liked science, and I really liked genetics. So I was a genetics major. And at that time, when I was going to school, the main option was to be like a physician. And there wasn't many other allied health care positions. And so, when I found out that that wasn't really what was my career path I decided to go into something totally different for a couple of years. it was only after I was really, after I had graduated, unpacked my boxes from college, that I picked up a brochure about genetic counseling. And that's how I found out about the profession. Wow. I just find it ironic just because UC Berkeley had one of the oldest genetic counseling prog, training programs at that point. They were probably, like in the first four. So it had been going on for 20, 30 years. And when I was an undergrad, I had no exposure or or knowledge about the program. And so, now I feel like every time I get a chance to give back, I, I like to promote the profession. Nice. What kind of training was involved, so once you figured out that's something you wanted. what do you do to become a genetic counselor officially? So, it's very specific. So it's usually a 2 or 3 year master's program. specifically in genetic counseling. So, all the courses are geared towards the science of genetics and counseling theory. And so, right now, I just did this [UNKNOWN], I think there are about 30 programs nationwide. So there are three in California and in other states. And so you still have to apply, take standard testing like GRE's, they're still around. And do some training like volunteering in health care settings. So I volunteered to planned parenthood for a year. I see. Doing the pregnancy tests. Cool. And then applied. Are there different certifications for different States. Like if you get trained in one State. If you're in the United States, would do have an international audience? But if you're in the United States, if you get certified, or get your degree, are you able to move and, and, and be a genetic couselor in any State? That's a really good question. So, the certification and, and the accreditation process for genetic counselors has changed. It used to be a certificate issued by a national organization, through our national organization called National Society of Genetic Counseling. and then, just probably in the past 5, 6 years, many of the states pushed for licensure so that we have a license, just like any other healthcare professional, dog groomer, hair dresser. Which would open up opportunities for billing and for status, and things. So, this states just started issuing licenses 4 years ago. I see. What do you think about the profession itself overall? Is it, is it a profession that's growing in number? and, and how is it growing, if it is? So yeah, the, the profession itself definitely is growing in number. I don't have year by year, but I think, in the very beginning, I think the first national society started in the late 70s. And then there are probably 10 to 30 members maybe, and now I think we're up to past 2,000 nationwise. in the state, I'm organizing this conference coming up, so I just did some stats. In this state, there's probably about 400 licensed genetic counselors. So just to give a perspective of. We're still a small specialty, but definitely growing. Is, I, I guess this so, sort of more of the personal side, but I mean, is, do you like being a genetic counselor? Do you feel like you're helping people? What, what aspect of doing this job is probably the, the best and most fulfilling for you? I think it's a combination of things. Like this job definitely, I, I really enjoy being a genetic counselor. It really fits my niche. That, it combines my interest and my love of science, and specifically genetics and genetic conditions, with seeing patients, helping people in a health care setting. So, I've been thinking about some of these answers, that you know, the traditional role for a health care professional is a doctor. But doctors have a lot of stress, a lot of schooling. doing treatments and procedures. And I wasn't necessarily interested in that part. I was really more interested in communicating to patients. And feeling like I could help them just using my words. Or just being there for them and listening to them. So, I really feel that this profession has been a really good fit, for, for, for me and my personality. That's great. Yeah. Now you said you're a perinatal genetic counselor. So walk us through, what is like? I mean who, what kind of patient comes to you, and how does the workflow process work when they seek out a genetic counselor? So, the workflow for a perinatal genetic counselor. And paranetal is actually kind of a new phrase we created at where I work. Traditionally, the word has been prenatal. So, before birth, and then there's postnatal. And now that we're doing so much intervention before birth that affects after birth, we use the combination of perinatal. So most of the patients that I see are pregnant, actively pregnant and thinking about doing some testing to check for either genetic conditions or birth defects. sometimes we see patients before they get pregnant, but they know they want to have children and know that they might be at risk for a certain condition. So, our appointments are fairly, they're like office consultations. Mm-hm. We do a little prep-work. We might contact them on the phone and get a little family history or medical history. and then our meeting with them is probably about 40 minutes, 40 to 60 minutes long. and then afterwards, if we've ordered testing or there's other appointments to make. We'll follow up and, and help patients with that. I'm really curious about the, the testing. So do patients come to you and say, I want to know what's in my genes or what I pass on, and you guys do a test for them? Yeah. So I think our patients are a little biased. I mean, I'm sure there, it seems like there, there are certainly patients out there who would say, or people out there who would say they don't want to learn, know their genetic status. And those patients we never end up seeing, because they would just decline an appointment with us. So those that we do see definitely are interested in some kind of genetic information. Whether it's for themselves or primarily for their pregnancy, or their future child. so, yeah. So, sometimes there's something specific in the family that we're looking for. We've had some patients just say, test me for everything, I want to know everything. And we have to explain the science and technology's not quite there yet. And so we're trying to pin point, what can we offer you? Accurate testing, specific testing, something that will be helpful to you. So, yeah. And what kind of what do you think about this sort of new wave of personal genetics, and, and companies that are able to you know, get samples from individuals and, and, and look at genes for them. How does, how does that fit in with this whole process of, of patients coming to you. Right. So, this whole wave of personal genomics they've called it. it's a, it's a separate court category by itself. And hasn't quite crossed in the penal realm yet. But, I mean, we certainly hear about it indirectly from our colleagues. I think e, just with our experience with the genetic testing, a lot of genetic testing is not straightforward. Sometimes we find things and we don't know how to interpret. And so, the personal genomics, I think is a, exciting new field. But also, as with any new test comes with limitation. And you know, those of us in the community of genetic counselors, some are very supportive of that technology. Some of us are still a little hesitant and cautious about, is it more harmful and helpful to start looking for things that may not have a co, complete answer to, like opening up Pandora's box kind of thing. Can you give me any examples, any specific examples of traits like that that you think are, you know, make it more difficult to really understand. Like is there a particular kind of dilemma, or is the patient ever come to you, or you felt you were in a situation where you were giving them information that they couldn't do anything with anyhow? Yeah, so there's, there's actually, so, I have a few examples. So one, one example of a test that's not straightforward, that kind of gives us a little difficulty in counseling, is maybe for a condition like hemochromatosis. So, that's an adult type onset condition, where you don't have symptoms until you reach adulthood, and it causes iron storage or overload. It can be treated fairly easily, but it does need treatment. the issue with the genetics of it is that there is a gene or two genes associated with the condition, but the gene is not the full picture. So people who have changes in the gene don't always have the condition. and so I think there's a lot of conditions like that. Alzheimer's, high cholesterol levels, where you identify a gene but it's not 100% correlation that that gene change always causes symptoms. And then you're left with not the co, not the whole picture, and you're giving probabilities. And so then the issue becomes, is that helpful to know about, know about a possibility that you may or may not be able to change or treat? Mm-hm. So that's been I think the big dilemma. The ethical dilemma is, some people would say I'd still want to know, because I want to prepare myself and try to do as much prevention as possible. Sure. Other people would say, well, if it's not for sure, I'm going to be left worrying and, and I'd rather just take it as it comes. So I think that's the big issue with the new genetic te, technologies in general. Whether it's looking for a trait or a specific condition that, most of the testing right now is not 100, 100% accurate or specific. Right. It sounds like a lot of what you end up doing as well as sort of education, patient education of traits and testing, and how to interpret various results. Definitely. So, a lot of what I do is I think of it as a consultation, but also just providing information. I see us as a link between physicians and patients, that traditionally doctors order tests that are fairly straightforward like a blood count. Or a blood type, or something like that. And they can easily tell a patient what that means in a sentence. With this genetic testing, it's much more complicated than that. it's not always a straightforward yes or no, and doctors don't have time to spend with patients explaining that. And so I see us as a bridge between that. Being able to help patients decipher and interpret this information. And then also helping them make decisions based on those results. because a lot of decisions to be made, especially in pregnancy, are not always medical decisions, they're personal decisions about what patients want to do about information, about their future offspring. so, so prenatal specifically is an interesting ethical realm, because we're also dealing with pregnancy and, and termination. What's the most difficult aspect of that if I can ask. is it, is it patients actually you know, deciding about you know, continuing the pregnancy versus not? are there significant traits that they have to deal with? I just, I'm looking for some kind of idea when it, when it does get gray as far as the difficult part of the job. Yeah, so, yeah, no you bring up a good point. I actually hadn't thought about that before. One of the difficulties in the job, in what I do with pregnancy is, we're not always we're, we're certainly talking about genetic testing. Sure. Sometimes, we're dealing with other kinds of tests in pregnancy, like ultrasounds. So, a video picture of the baby. Where you see a physical problem that might be something that suggests a genetic condition like Down Syndrome, or something else. And seeing the physical problem doesn't guarantee what the outcomes going to be. And so that is one difficulty in prenatal, that you don't have a live person in front of you to say, oh, this person is actually fine. Maybe they have an extra finger or toe, but they're otherwise healthy. In a pregnancy, you don't, you don't have that baby in front of you, and you can't check if there's other things going on. So I think that definitely is one difficult aspect of what I do specifically. and I would just say in general, just dealing with pregnant patients is tough. Pregnancy is a time limited event, so I feel like of all the specialties in genetic counseling, prenatal is usually the one the, the most time sensitive. We're under deadlines for scheduling appointments, seeing patients, test results. and just the anxiety of the patients themselves. They also have the hormone issues to deal with. Mm-hm. It's a very emotional time. So it can be quite challenging, but it also can be quite satisfying. Sure. Actually there is an interest [UNKNOWN] haven't thought of either. I mean I guess and, and it's portrayed in the media, at least maybe in TV and movies to a certain extent. That you know, these kinds of, this kind of information or even services for reproductive services, I, I don't know the best way to, to say that. for couples, it's generally considered more of a middle to upper class sort of information thing. It's this what, what, what is that like in the genetic counseling. What I mean, do, is it something that only certain couples end up doing, because you know, their by, you know, I actually don't know the best way to phrase this question. But you know, is, is, is access to this sort of across the board for all types? What's the general demographic of people who are sort of taking part of trying to find this information? Yeah. So, at least here in California, we're, in this Bay Area, I think we're in a unique bubble in terms of who comes to see us and access. you know, the state government has ensured that all pregnant women have some kind of medical coverage during the pregnancy. So, we're fortunate that we can see patients on the state insurance called Medi-Cal and as well as private pay patients. I think the issue, I think many patients who come see us are very appreciative of, of what we can provide, but different patients need different things. Mm-hm. So patients who are lower to middle class, or of lower education status, may not need all the explanation of the genetic testing. May be less likely to take the genetic testing. But could still benefit for meeting with us to explain all the options. so we see a huge spectrum of patients. but even in my employers group, we have different offices. So, in different cities. So the area that I'm in is, isn't an affluent area, private insurance patients are the ones I generally see. Mm-hm. Who are educated and, and know the lingo of chromosomes and, and genes. Mm-hm. versus, we have a office in the southern portion of the Bay area where there are more non-English speaking patients, patients that are on the state medical insurance. Who, who don't know what a chromosome is may not be interested in further genetic testing. So, that, yeah. Could there be a challenge, sort of dealing with different patients at the same time too? . Yeah. E, e, if it were in the same you know, practice or office too. Yeah, usually we,we find it helpful, like our group specifically will call patients, at least try to contact some patients ahead of time to see what their concerns are. So we call that a phone intake. And we find it really helpful especially for the higher end, more educated patients who have a specific agenda or specific questions they want answered to do that, do it that way. So, I'm, I'm also curious. What is, is there a common trait or condition that you counsel for the most. Like what is, what are the things that you either end up counselling for, or do people come to you and ask them, what are they most interested in? So, for my specific specialty in prenatal. by far, I think nationwide, the common condition that we're talking about is Down's Syndrome. I was thinking about how I explained why. I think it's a combination of things. Because the condition is genetic, but it's not inherited. so, it would randomly appear, and there would be no other way to tell about it other than to check for it in that pregnancy. And is, there's a known association with the age of the mom. As women get older, there's a higher chance of Down Syndrome. the insurances actually will cover testing for Down Syndrome, so that's kind of a supportive step that, that he, aids us in seeing patients. it's common, common condition, I think about 1 in 800, 1000 births for Down syndrome occur. And it can be a long-term disability. Children with Down syndrome grow up into adults, they have intellectual disability, they can have health issues. And so, it seems like there's enough interest in that, that we have this testing. So for my specialty, it's fairly easy, we, we talk primarily about that and some related conditions. whereas in other specialties like pediatrics, where I use to work it could be a range of things. a variety of things depending on what a child comes in to see, for us to see. Whether it's a learning problem, we think about, would make us think about certain conditions versus if it was a physical birth defect. Mm-hm. Like a heart defect or a cleft lip that would shift our gear to something else. If you do enough testing for something like Down Syndrome, does that mean you're taking a genetic sample from the developing embryo? So, that is still the goldstar. Yes, the test for down syndrome accurately is still an invasive test where you're taking tissue indirectly from the baby. So, either amniocentesis or chorionic villi sampling, which have been, I think available for a generation now. So, those are still kind of the gold standard way to test for Down syndrome and other chromosome problems, because we have tissue from that baby. but more and more over the years, we have a lot more alternate tests that don't require evasiveness into the pregnancy. Primarily blood tests and ultrasounds that can check markers for Down syndrome, versus the amnion CVS are looking at the chromosomes and looking at the cause of Down syndrome. So, so now we have a combination of both, and I think especially now, patients are faced with so many choices. It really can help them to meet with us to sort out all the different options, the benefits, the risks, numbers, detection rates, things like that. What's the most difficult trait you've had to counsel? Is it Down syndrome, or is there another more difficult situation or trait that you've had to, let us say counsel a family on or a couple? So, Down syndrome is always, it's, it's always a difficult trait. Like, I was thinking about this because I have experience both in prenatal and in pediatrics. I mean one of my most memorable patient cases had to, not to do with a Prenatal case, but a pediatric case. Where we were seeing a child and part of the list of conditions we were thinking about was TaySachs disease. So that's one is also a known single gene recessive condition that is common in people of Jewish background. So when we were thinking about that disease, that usually means the child is coming in with delays, and maybe normal development than loss of delays. so, it's not like it was, it's a surprise to the family, we, we would talk to them about this is a possibility. We're going to be ordering tests for this condition. but it's always hard to have to call or contact the family and tell them this is, this is a condition. So I think any kind of test result that confirms a condition that it has high risk for complications or early death. that's never easy to, to, to convey. You do pedigrees, don't you? Yes, we do, we always do pedigrees. it's kind of our shorthand for gathering medical information. Are you fast? Are you good? How fast can you draw a pedigree? I'm pretty fast, people, my colleagues would say, I'm too fast at a lot of things. So I'm pretty fast at drawing a pedigree. We have colleagues that have the template that had, they used to have a template that you could trace a pedigree. Oh, my gosh. And so I had colleagues who could whip out that that template and do the, the rotation of things. But most of us can draw free hand pretty well. But now, there are programs that also draw pedigrees. Sure. because mine are fairly basic, I can take maybe three generations of pedigrees. So patients, their children, and then their parents. some pedigrees like for cancer, where you're really trying to pinpoint all the individuals with cancer, those pedigrees could get huge. And then, I think the counselors definitely need help with a program that can kind of line things up and sort things out. So do families really have all this information? Like are you able to build like these massive pedigrees? Or do you end up building these sort of, more like, just maybe two or three generation pedigree? So, families vary in how much information they can give us for pedigrees. I see a lot of patients also, I should mention that comes from other countries. Especially, specifically Asia, where not as, not much is known about family members. People don't talk about conditions in the family. So the ped, and, and people don't have that many children, so the pedigrees can be very sparse. So just like a circle and a square, and circle and a square, and that's it. And then all the way to families who have their whole genealogy trees mapped out with the aid of all these online tools. Right. so they come in with their pedigrees already drawn. So, it's really a fun part of our draw, job, but it's also efficient to draw this out instead of trying to describe all these people. Well, I have a really interesting question to ask for all of our students who might be struggling with pedigrees out there. How do you as an actual genetic counselor, let's say you're studying a trait. How do you distinguish when you're looking at traits, a recessive or dominant trait and put it in context of what you think's going on? So the, so, trying to figure out a trait, whether it's dominant, recessive, or X-linked, those are the top three modes of inheritance that we're looking at. We actually have a term called pedigree analysis [LAUGH]. and you know, it's, it's a subjective thing, but it really is looking at the pedigree. And going through kind of all the rules of what dominant inheritance looks like, what recessive inheritance looks like. So, if you see a trait that happens in a grandparent, a parent and a child, then that's much more likely to be a dominant trait. If you see a condition where multiple brothers and sisters are [INAUDIBLE] and by chance maybe their parents are related to each other. And no one else in the family has the trait, then that's more likely or suggestive something recessive. And if you see only boys affected through moms, that could be more X-linked. So the pedigree really does help us try to figure out modes of inheritance. That's really cool. Yeah. what about, I'm super curious, because in, in our class, we, we actually learn about sort of the possibility of recessive and dominant in, in an autosomal context and in excellent context. We also briefly go over a maternal inheritance, which would be any conditions that affect mitochondria presumably. Yes, yes. Are there any conditions or traits that you ever have to deal with that fit that model at all? So, I'm very fortunate that I, I don't interact, or I don't have to deal so much with maternal inheritance like mitochondrial inheritance, because it can be. That's that's still a very tricky type of inheritance, up a long with imprinting effects. Mm-hm. So there's some complicated modes of inheritance, that, I mean you could see in a prenatal pedigree, but would be hard to be born out unless someone had a name of a known mitochondrial condition. but my colleagues in pediatrics, certainly are looking at children where they might be something mitochondrial going on. it gives a specific phenotype or picture, where children have certain metabolic lab results, they have learning delays or physical problems. so often times they are telling families, there's a diagnosis of something mitochondrial and trying to explain inheritance patterns. Which, that is, that is really tough, because there's a much higher recurrence risk in that then the traditional modes of inheritance. Have you ever had to look at a trait, or I don't know, I'm just curious, have you ever looked where there, no one knows what the inheritance pattern is? Like have you ever discovered a new inheritance pattern? [LAUGH] Like does that happen as a genetic counselor? Are you ever looking at traits that no one's ever described before? So that's kind of two separate questions. So that, looking at a pedigree, sometimes we don't know the inheritance. Like it doesn't fit a traditional dominant, or it doesn't fit a traditional recessive. So that's kind of the fun part of our job, where it's a rare occurrence of something happening. So it's not, I don't think we've discovered a new inheritance, but we've discovered new instances of a rare, rare instances of things that can happen with traditional inheritance patterns. So that's, that's one way. Like something happens on top of something else and that's what gives that pattern. and then we can also be fooled when people are related to each other. because then that throws things, because it could be a dominant trait. But if there's relatives that are, are related to each other, it could be recessive as well. Mm-hm. and then your other question just about. I mean, we certainly have conditions that nobody's described before. And we see it in prenatal, but we see it more in pediatrics, where a child comes to us with a unique set of symptoms and that's not been described. And so that, that's a cool part of a pediatric genetics counselor's or doctor's job is they might actually identify a new syndrome. So, I haven't personally been part of that, but my colleagues actually have. And we know physicians who have discovered new conditions and have had them named after them. Wow. Yeah. That's crazy. That's pretty cool. I also wanted to know, I, you know, when I learned genetics the first time, and, as you just said a second ago, it, it happens. And you have to look for it, you're looking for maybe recessive traits, and, you see a, unaffected parents and affected children, and you're looking for, maybe, close relation. Yeah. You know, for new beginnings, new, new, new students to a class of genetics are like, has that really happened. If people find out that they actually had children can, can we speak to that all. How, how often do you people find out either, whether they knew or didn't know that they, they you know, didn't have children with somebody of a close relation. What's that like? So, I would say that the, what we call consanguinity when people are related to each other. Often, in my experience, it's not an unknown thing. I mean there a certain cultures in other countries where it's actually preferred that people marry within the family. and so, it's actually a known thing up front that they have to marry within the family to keep funding, or money, or status in the family. I have had one instance when I was talking to a patient on the phone and drawing her pedigree, that she did not know she had married either a first or se, her, her husband was her first or second cousin. And that she found out when they were invited to the same family wedding. [LAUGH] So, I mean, so, I think it doesn't happen in, for, at least for me, it hasn't happened that often where people don't know they're related to each other. Often times they're coming to us because they already know that somehow and they're worried about the risks from that. Sure. because you hear, we learn about it in textbooks, but, I'm like, what, what context does that really happen in? Or I guess not even relatedness but coming from the same community. So, for example, just people of Ashkenazi Jewish descents, and I, and I would say hopefully it's not disrespectful for anyone from that community. But I think there are a lot of communities, whether they're religious or cultural that tend to marry from that community. Sure. And it's just, I think they call it a Founder Effect. Somebody, an ancestor in that, from that gener, culture happened to carry a bad recessive or serious recessive gene like Tay-Sachs disease. And he happened to have a lot of children and those children happy, happened to marry each other. And then that condition really increased in incidents. And so that's happened, that's been known to happen in certain part pockets. Mm-hm. Of population, even if they're not related to each other. If they're a close community. So so it's fortunate or unfortunate. And, and the Jewish population in general I feel like they, they are aware of those increased risks. So many people are screened to see if they carry some of these genes, even before they get married. I see. Well, let's, let's close out here. I'm curious, let's maybe think broad aspect again, broad perspective. What what do you think other people think about genetics and genetic counseling? What do you, what, what do you think the general viewpoint is? And, and do you think that's good or bad, and should we try to change that or influence it in a certain way or is it fine on its own? So, I, I, I might, I'm al, I'm very interested in what, in what the public opinion is of genetic counseling. And I feel like we here in the Bay Area are in a very specific bubble, where we're very fortunate, we're in a very liberal area. where genetic testing is available, pregnancy termination is available. And so, I feel like the, the opinion of genetic counselors here in this area is fairly favorable. That people definitely if they have met with a genetic counselor, have definitely found it helpful and useful. I actually don't think in general nationwide. I still think it's a fairly small profession. And my sense is that, I mean, we're doing more to promote the profession, but I think there's still a lot of people who don't know what genetic counselors do and where they fit into things. A lot of patients even here, especially if they come from other countries, will hear the counseling part of genetic and think that it's a therapy session. so there's still a lot of misconceptions about what the term means. I don't think it's viewed negatively. I think it's just, it's still not very well known like other allied health professionals, professions like nurses, or social workers, or dentists. So, there's it's encouraging that there are more and more of us. And with the media being more available on the internet, hopefully we'll be promoting our profession better. and just spreading the word of the benefits of genetic counseling. Great. If you, if, if there's somebody watching right now and is really interested and wants to learn more about being a genetic counselor, what would you, do you have any particular good resource you would tell them to go visit? Or do you have any special message you would tell them about genetic counseling? So, yeah. I would, I would highly recommend that their profession if anyone's thinking about genetic counseling. it's a very good combination of medicine and health care, and interacting with patients. So we call that a clinical kind of drive, if you like patients. And if you like a specific field of genetics, because that's pretty much what we're talking about. So if you don't like genetics, I wouldn't recommend this profession. But if you want to work with people, but still be in tune with the science, it's a really good profession. and we do have a national society. So there's a website nsgc.org, that has all the information about the training programs, the background requirements. we've done professional status surveys to talk about salary, job satisfaction. genetic conselors tend to be more on the side of female. I think it's actually up to 95% are female. Holy cow. [LAUGH]. So the male genetic counselors are very well known in the field because there aren't that many of them [LAUGH]. Especially here in California. so, because of that, there's good and bad for that. there are a lot of counselors who work part time, and we don't take call like physicians or nurses. And so, for those again who want to go into medicine but don't want the extra stress of those kinds of things, it's a really nice profession. a lot of, lots of counselors work part time. again, because we're seeing patients and they can be scheduled appointments. the salaries I think, especially with our certification and licensure, hopefully are starting to increase. And there's certainly a lot of job opportunity. Mm-hm. So, I would highly recommend checking out the websites, and talking to a genetic counselor if you can. Even shadowing a counselor and doing some volunteer work in healthcare. Just to make sure that's the area that they like to be in. Hi, I'm Brian Naughton. I'm, I'm a scientist at 23andMe and I'm from Dublin, Ireland. So after dropping the DNA sample in the mail, we don't see anything until we get to our results. what happens to that sample once we drop it in the mail? Where does it go? Where does it end up? So your sample actually gets shipped to our lab in Los Angeles where it gets processed. There are four major components to that. It starts with DNA extraction, then amplicfication of the DNA, then hybridization, and finally analysis of the data to make sure it's good. Okay, great about how long does that process take to do all those steps? So if you take all of the steps, and you did them end to end, it would probably take three days or so. Mm-hm. A lot of the process is just waiting for the equipment to become available because of volume. I see. What, of all those sort of four processes, which of those is the most time intensive of all of them? The most time-intensive is the hybridization stuff, which happens overnight. Amplification also happens overnight, though. So there are two major parts where we have to leave the DNA for a while, and come back to it, so it has time to about what what, I mean I'm curious. What's the most expensive part of the Of the process. So that the chip and the reagents are going to be expensive part of the process. I mean, by the chip, you also get the reagents that sort of like the chemicals that you need to run the chip. the other expensive components are probably labor, obviously, because we actually need to hire what's called high-complexity staff to run our process. It's a CLS staff. and then the, the rest is actually fairly inexpensive. What are the are there any international restrictions, like obviously I'm, I'm guessing if the lab time only takes, you know, like you said, three days, but, you know, longer if you're processing multiple samples. You know, it should take a lot longer for any international people, who want to have this service done? So the lab process doesn't take longer, obviously the shipping is an issue and shipping can be expensive if you're coming from Asia to California that's part of the reason why we want to add another lab actually just to help with that. Uh-huh. There's also issues with exporting DNA from certain countries, so China and India specifically have laws around what DNA you are allowed to export out of that country. So that, that plus other regulations regarding biological specimens mean that it's actually quite difficult to add another country to our list of countries. Tell us a bit more aboutthe DNA extraction step. What actually happens, you get the, the DNA or the saliva sample in the lab, what do you do to get the DNA out? DNA extraction is a very, you know normal thing that happens in labs all over the world. There's nothing special about who, how we do our DNA extraction. But the process is really trying to separate the DNA in the nucleus of the cell from the proteins and other components of the cell that other wise be in the way. I see, and how much DNA do you get out of the saliva sample that someone sends in? It's actually very variable. So depending on the person we can get anywhere from ten micrograms to over a hundred micrograms of DNA. And does most of that variation happen just based on the number of cells that were in that spit sample or saliva sample? We think so, but we actually don't have very good information on that. We know that some people's saliva is more watery than other people, and we know that, for example, infants do not often give us good data, and we think that's partially because of the wateriness of the, of that saliva. Well, for those people who might be wondering, you know, what kinds of cells do you actually getting in, in my spit? What, what, what, what are the actual cells that And the and white blood cells are the other major component. Now, I, I do floss and brush my teeth, but I know that I'm sure I have some kind of bacteria or germs in there. Even still is that a concern at all, worrying about sort of having other non-me DNA in my spit sample? Again, it's not something we worry about too much. We know that people have a lot of bacteria in their mouths, and we know that from person to person there's a huge variability in the composition of those bacteria. But for amplification we are happy to amplify up all of your human and bacterial DNA. And then let the sequencing or genotyping process sort out the human from the bacterium. I see. So, as long as it's human it's good. But does that mean, like, I, you know I shouldn't go kiss anybody right before I, I, I give my DNA sample? For the 23andMe test, we actually collect two milliliters of saliva from you. Which doesn't sound like a lot, but it can take up to five to 10 minutes to fill that. That's a lot of saliva. You have to be kissing a lot to make a difference. [LAUGH] So when you finish the first step, the DNA extraction, you essentially have taken our sample and like you said, sort of purified the DNA from [INAUDIBLE] gotten rid of all the other stuff, the proteins, the other molecules that might be part of cells and other kinds of contaminants. And you pretty much have just a purified DNA product. Exactly. Now is, is that enough already to do what you want to do with it or what do you have to do next? Not really. It's common in many situations like this to want to amplify the DNA. So you always want to give yourself the best opportunity to sequence what's in there. And the easiest way to do that is to take the DNA you got and amplify it or copy it as many times as you can so that you just have enough signal that you make it easy on yourself. I see. So when you say you're, you're amplifying or you're, you're making copies I mean, are you controlling kind of how many copies you make or you just, you know, you're making like ten more, 20 more, you know, 100 more? How does that work? It's not tightly controlled, but, in essence, at the end of the process, you end up with a thousandfold enrichment of the DNA. So you really end up with a lot more DNA. So, do you end up with DNA leftover? You know, after you're done with the procedure, you actually have leftover DNA for, for people? Sometimes, we do. but usually, we store your DNA in its In the saliva form, so that we're going back to the original copy. One issue with amplification is that, every time you copy just like in DNA replication in humans, there is a possibility for error. So those errors could compound if you keep copying the copy. Just like Xeroxing [INAUDIBLE]. [INAUDIBLE]. Now, we have our extracted DNA sample that's been amplified, so we have enough of our sample to do something with. are we ready to go sequence it now? Is that what we're going to do? So, the process that your DNA undergoes at 23andME is a little different to sequencing. It's called chip hybridization or genotyping. And so, how does this differ from sequencing? What's the difference between sequencing, and sort of, what you mentioned as sort of chip hybridization for, for genotyping? So, if you can think of sequencing as just reading the genome from beginning to end almost, you want to know every single letter and what it is. With genotyping we actually decide beforehand, which parts of the genome, which letters are interesting to us, and then we specifically look at those letters with the knowledge that, these are the letters that maybe cause diseases or are associated with Some trait that we have. I see. So you have to actually put a lot of thought into it before hand as to sort of know exactly which positions, which bases, which letters your interested in. How many letters, do you actually or how many bases do you look at in an individual sample? So we look at about a million on the current [UNKNOWN] chip. that means that, when you get your results back from us, you can download a million different calls, or base pairs from us. Sequencing sounds like it gives you a lot more information. what are the prohibitive aspects of sequencing? Why doesn't 23andMe do sequencing? Yeah, sequencing is definitely the future of this field and we, we're definitely interested in sequencing when it gets cheap enough. But the main advantage of genotyping is cost. so we know that to get the same results that we get with the 23andMe chip we would have to charge at least ten times more with the sequencing product. Wow. Probably a lot more. Oh, I see. Genotyping has other advantages as well. We, because you genotype using the process of hybridization, you actually get a lot of different shots on go, if you like. You get to hybridize different molecules many times Mm-hm. And you get the, the sum of all of those, or the, the average of all of those weeds. You get a lot of information compiled into one data point. With sequencing, you might actually miss the part of the genome you were interested in, and that could be a problem. I see. So, in a way, you kind of have higher confidence, even though you have maybe more limited information in the end. You, you have a higher confidence about the actual, you know, letter or base result for that position. Exactly. And some people describe genotyping as almost like single based sequencing, where we're sequence, we're sequencing hundreds of thousands of molecules on each part of the chip. So there's an advantage there that's hard to replicate in sequencing. Tell us a bit more about how this sort of chip piratization works for people who are unfamiliar. I hear chip, and I. Well, sometimes I think potato chip. But I know in this case, we're probably talking about something more like maybe a computer chip. How does this work exactly? Yeah, so the chip is really a glass slide that contains an array of DNA. And those, and the DNA is bound to glass beads, that are, scattered, on a, on a regular pattern on the, on the chip. So then that DNA is designed by us. To bind to the parts of the genome we're interested in, it's the process I talked about a minute ago, and it comes together through the process of base pairing, just like double helix base pairing. And then either you have, let's say an a at postion The position we're interested in, or a g. And depending on which of those two you have, will either light up green or light up red on the chip, at a specific position on the chip. I see, so you essentially have sort of a discreet, or quantum unit, for every little DNA molecule that you're testing, you get a little signal that says, oh you have an a or you have a g here. Exactly. And because humans are deployed, you'll also get situations where you have A and G, one from mother, one from father. So then, what we see at that position on the chip is red and green or kind of a yellow [INAUDIBLE]. Oh, that's really clever. So that, and it allows you to easily distinguish any given position that you're looking at. Yeah, so when we get the data at 23andMe we actually can plot it on a simple xy plot with red on the y axis and green on the sorry, on the x axis. And then we'll see three clusters of people who are AA, AG and GG because those are the three possible situations. for disposition in your genome. Then we can say, well if you're in this cluster, its because of the process called clustering, and you're AG, and if your in this cluster, then you're AA. So there's a kind of a simple analysis problem at the end of the, at the end of the output there. I see it sounds like you're actually using sort of, the information from pooled set of individuals, that you know, you're sort of looking, and So even though an individual call maybe difficult to know where on that graph you're, you're placed. If you use sequestering like you said, you can more readily identify. Oh, you're part of this group. So you're AA, not AG kind of thing. That's exactly right. And there are also situations you can imagine where we get even more information, so, you could imagine a situation where you have a deletion of the part of the geneome we're interested in. Then what you will see is a new cluster another cluster of [UNKNOWN] three with lower intensity because there is less signal there because there are fewer DNA molecules. So then a new cluster could emerge and it could be as infrequent as one in thousand people or one in hundred thousand people. But we will see a nucleus of samples there. Now, in, in lesson two of, of our course, we actually talked about the first time there about the idea of base pairing. And we learned about the base pairing rules and, and how things fit together. but what I find really interesting is the idea that in, in a double stranded DNA, you know, you have all these letters matching with each other. Is, is what you're telling is the idea that a single nucleotide variant is just one letter change here? That if one letter doesn't match, that essentially what's happening is that, the, the strand can't actually hybridize completely. It can't base pair completely, and that's why you, you don't see the signal for one, but you do for another? Is that, essentially what''s going on? It's something very close to that. So what we expect is that all of the letters leading up to the letter we're interested in will bind. And like you say, if there is a, an error there, one difference, then it won't bind, or it will bind weakly. So the signal will be weak. But then, the specific letter we're interested in, which will kind of come out one more base, has, there's a pool of a's, g's, c's and t's floating around that can bind there. Mhm. Or not. They'll only bind. If it's the correct base pair And it's unoccupied. And it's unoccupied. Then, we'll see the extension happen. The reaction that leads to the color, you know, the color that we can see in our imaging system. That's great. And so essentially you have this, you said the chip is a slide, and you're looking at a million bases in this one little chip, this one little space? Yeah. So there, even more than that. There's more than a million beads per chip because it's better to read the same variant many, many times. Mm-hm. Just to get a good average signal. Mm Hm. the reason for that, is that if your in the corner, or maybe you'll get slightly different optics, cause the cameras looking at the center of the chip, or so, or something like that. So you just want some redundancy. I see. So it's a more then ten million beads per chip. And that process has been improving over the years the density of the, of the chips has been increasing, a lot. How many chips, so, I mean, do you, have you always use the same chip, or How do you make changes, you know, if there's a new, I guess, I don't know, a new trait, or a new a new SNV that you've become interested in. Are you able to change your chips, so you can look at that? Yes. We update the chip approximately every 18 months. we're on the third iteration right now, and we're constantly looking for a new variance to add to the chip to improve the performance of it. So you can imagine then, if there's a paper published that says, this mutation in this gene causes a disease. And it, you know, it's very interesting to go and find that out. We can design what we call a, a probe for that. Just a base, the sequence of DNA is attached to the glass bead, and we make sure it's on the next iteration of the chip. You mentioned that the hybridization process is sort of the, the longest part. you said it happens over, overnight? Yeah. what, I mean for those of us, I mean we've learned conceptually about base pairing, but any technical insight you might have. I mean what's, why is this an overnight process? Essentially it just takes time for the DNA in your saliva, in the extracted saliva sample to find the right bead. So you want to give it time to just search around in the solution, find the right bead and bind there. And that, that takes time. I see. It takes time just based on quickly the DNA moves around and how tightly it binds. and what do you use to measure the results? Are you, I mean are you just like snappin a picture of the chip? what's actually happening? Yes. It's very close to that. in essence, you'd get what's called a fluorophore attached to the, the bead. Because of the presence of the A or the G at that position. that's the red or green signal. You shoot a laser at it to excite the therafore, and then you take a photograph of it with a digital camera. So a lot of it is very much, you know, digital camera based. Just interesting that that technology allowed our technology. Yeah. And it also sounds like, I know how big my digital camera picture files are, that sounds like it's a lot of data, a lot of information that, that you end up with. Yeah, so all of that data from this giant image file gets processed by software that's actually done by our labs in Los Angeles, and translated into the xy plot I mentioned before. Because for each bead on the chip really all we're interested in is how much red is there in there, and how much green. The photograph itself is not terribly useful after you extracted that data. Well it sounds still like there is a lot of stuff that goes on time from the time that you guys get the wrong data and you sort of do your quality control, qc check before you know you know i see it on my twenty three [UNKNOWN] profile page I mean is, is all of that just sort of computational biology at that point. who, who's looking at that data? Who's organizing it? What's sort of going on there? Yeah, it really becomes a computational biology problem once we get the data from the lab, and that's really where 23andMe concentrates most of our Staff here are computational biologists or software engineers, so that's really where we're best. so, the next major component there is called calling, that's turning the data that we get from the lab into the AAs, AGs or GGs that you can download in your raw data, or produce the reports you see on our website. and that's kind of an involved process but it, in essence, relies on looking at these xy plots and making sure that everything is where it, we expect it to be. and so the final results that, that we get back seem to look so, so curated and so, so official w-, I mean how much of the computational sort of side of this is sort of deriving you know. Oh what does this letter mean. I mean how do you, I mean are you guys viewing all the literature and, and selecting things and, How, how are those decisions made in general? So we actually have a pretty big content team at 23andMe, they're the ones who scour the literature, look at what's going on in the current science of genetics, and find out, oh this mutation or this varient causes this disease, and it's a new discovery. Then they would write up what they think about that, and try to put it in launguage that makes sense to our users. And if it meets our scientific criteria, it goes out to the website. It is a little automated, and it can take time to just process the data through to the website. But the actual process of taking your data, calling all the variance, and all that is quite quick. You can think of the website as being in two parts. There's the part where we just look at the calls that you have for disease. And the report just links that call to the results. So for example we could say, you are a carrier of cystic fibrosis because you have this variant. So that's a, that's a scientific challenge, to figure out what's going on in the literature. But it's not an algorithmic challenge. The other part of the website includes things like our ancestry composition feature and our relative finder feature. Those are difficult algorithmic problems. You want to take the whole, you know genotype sample all million variants and try and figure out based on that, what is this person's ancestral composition. Mm-hm. So you can imagine that that's actually a more complex task and requires a lot of code taking it from, you know, ABC through to the end My name is Russ Altman I'm on the faculty at Stanford and number of departments including bioengineering and genetics. they're paying me and I have a, an appointment at medicine and computer science and I live nearby at Stanford from New York originally. That's great. And you are on of the creator, the creator, I guess farm GKB? That's a team, I wrote [CROSSTALK] the original proposal and have continued to be the principal investigaton. It's now in its 13th year, we started back in 2000. Great, and so for somebody who's just seen PharmGKB for the first time, what is it all about? So we are totally excited about the how genetics can influence your drug response. And back in 2000 the NIH and others realized that there needed to be a central repository to gather all that information together. So the mission of PharmGKB simply put, is to understand all human genetic variation that impacts drug response. And to catalog it to make it available to researchers and eventually practitioners so that they use it in their work. And it's a one stop shop for the genetic influences on drug response. It sounds like a mountain of information. We have, we do, we do this in two ways. We have human curators who are experts in pharmacogenomics, and they read the literature, literally every week, as the journals come out. They scan them, looking for genes and drugs and the relationships being discussed. And then put them on a queue for human curation. This has become difficult and so the second effort in the lab are software tools to do this. So we do a lot of natural language processing. Data mining and stuff like that. To try to help put good articles in front of the curators. So that they can be more efficient. We do still want humans in the loop because this is a sufficiently tricky and the end goal being, it might actually affect patients. So we're not ready to close the loop and just have computers doing it all, so there's always a human in the loop so far. Well, who's the intended audience for this? Is this sort of, opened up mainly to clinicians or science people or anyone? It's a great question. That has evolved. For the first five, seven years of the database, it was specifically just for pharmacogenetic researchers. To let them know what was known and what was not known. Really, so they could pick the problems to work on and not reinvent the wheel, or be unaware of some important discoveries that have been made. With the success of the field, however, Mm hmm It has become increasingly apparent that some of this stuff is ready to roll out in clinical practice. And so we are now involved in consortia where we're actually writing clinical practice guidelines for clinicians to actually use pharmacogenomics in practice. And, and that's probably we'll stop. We'll probably go all the way from the raw data. Mm hmm. all the way up to the clinical advice that you would give to a physcian who's making a decision about drug prescribing. Wow. And that's really exciting because that's how you actually impact patients and that's why we do this. We did this because we all believe that the genome was going to be important for health. And your response to drugs turns out to be one of the key early uses of the genome that we'll be able to benefit patients with. So, if you were an individual just a lay person who had personal genetic information about let's say a gene that affects the metabolism of a certain drug. You could take your variation and go to PharmGKB, and what would you find out? You, so at PharmGKB, you would find a couple of things. You would find the entire literature on that drug gene pair. indexed as to how good was the, not how good was the study, but how big was the study. How compelling were the statistics when they did the analysis And you'll find all the individual papers, but what you'll also find is products that our team has created to kind of integrate that data. So these clinical guidelines are one thing that you may find. These require a lot of evidence so there's not as many of them as there are things for weaker evidences, about 12 of them where we can really put down clinical advice. But our curators also put together pathways of drug response to show what's happening in the liver. Or what's happening in the effector cells that are affected by all of these genetic variations. They also write summaries. This gene is important because, and they actually publish these summaries so that somebody who wants to learn about a particularly important gene. Mm-hm. So a, a patient, unless they have scientific background would not find too much. A physician would find those clinical guidelines and the supporting evidence. And a researcher would find. Well, a candyland of the raw, the raw published literature, and then what we hope are very useful summaries of it to help them think about what the next research question should be. Yeah. It sounds like a great amalgamation of the information that exists but in a centralized place. We call it a knowledge pyramid. In fact if you look at the site, Pharmgkb dot org, please visit it. [LAUGH]. farmgkb.org has this knowledge pyramid where we have the raw data that's published in the literature and then we have aggregations of it, and then we have filtering of it. And then we have the clinical advice that we give to doctors. And that's really how it works. You have all this research that eventually impacts patients. To keep track of how many entries you have, like how many drug genetic variation responses. Absolutely, So, I do annual reports for the NIH. Okay. And so, over the late years, we have totally instrumented the site. We know how many hits every page gets. Wow. We know the most popular pathways that people look at, the most popular genes. Name one. so people love coding. And people [CROSSTALK] [LAUGH] Don't they? Don't they, though. Exactly, it's a pain reliever. People all are very interested in Warfarin. For the pathways, those are the ones they like. For the genes, they like some of the genes that are involved. There's a gene called CYD2P6. Terrible name. Cytochrome P450 2D6 which is very important for hundreds of drugs. And that's one of our top hits. Wow, and what are people using when they, when, when you say it's a top hit, these are probably researchers using this information? Yeah. So we learned a long time ago that people like the Google-type interface. They don't really want to do super duper searches, with lots of bells and whistles, they want to type free text. So, we've optimized our free text search on the site the nice thing about that is it's real easy to look at the free searches and. Categorize what's the average length how many words are include what genes, drugs and diseases are being mentioned and we can use that to kind of do market research for the site. To improve it, because we see what people are typing in and we can type those same things in and say do we like the answers that were given when somebody types that in? So, what would you say are, what kinds of tools would you like to see in the farm GKB side that maybe aren't there now? Great question. And we're thinking about this rapidly. this has been a website for 13 years. But guess what, there's these things called mobile devices. We haven't engineered the site for that. But it is loud and clear from our users that they are at conferences and somebody mentions a gene. And they're going to go on their smartphone or their iPad or galaxy whatever and they're going to type it in though we're working very hard. At how do you take all this information and just give the highlights in a much more restricted real estate stuff. Sure. People all over the world are worrying about this, and we are, too. so there's that, but it's funny, the other thing is, we have a very textual based site. And it's good if you want to read text but it's come to our attention that people, even when they have a lot of monitor space. They want to look at prettier graphics, they want to see networks versus text, so we're also thinking of re-factoring the whole site to produce a network way of thinking about pharmacogenomics. Like here's a drug and here's all the genes that connect to it. Here's a gene and its drug or here's a network that connects genes and drugs. And so we're also prototyping that kind of stuff. So that's kind of user interface type things that we're doing. On the content side, we're very interested in pushing these natural language processing because our curators. Are starting to see that they work very hard and the literature is starting to get them overwhelmed. What other resources would you recommend, I mean, is, do you want pharm GKB to be sort of the one stop shop. Or are there other useful resources that you would recommend to people, sort of in conjunction with it? Absolutely, so a couple things. we have this tab based display format right now. And one of the tabs is other resources. And its very important because what we can do is since we know the drug or the gene that the user is currently looking at, we can have super specific lengths to other information sources about those drugs, about those genes, about the diseases that they treat. And so we have those links and we are always looking for more links because this is what the, this is the beauty of the World Wide Web that you can make these connections. In addition to that, sometimes the data source is so valuable that we, with the permission of the people who are creating it, bring it in to the form GKB so we can more tightly integrate that data with our data. Um-hm. So there's kind of two phase of the relationship, the we'll definitely link to you phase. And then the, we love you so much that if it's okay with you, we'd like to bring you in and make you part of our interface, part of our the way we represent information. And these include basic biological databases, like Gen bank, which holds DNA sequence. There's a very valuable drug resource called drug bank, which we link to. There are the DB gap, which hold [INAUDIBLE] studies. and, and, and, and a long list of other links that you find on this site. Sure. I'm curious is online [INAUDIBLE] daily inheritance in men part of that? All men are online and inheritance. Great resource. Kills us in some ways, because it's great, but it's text based Yes. And it's not super structured. No. It's hard to write computer programs to, to Parse it. And so, but we do that because it's, it, it is [CROSSTALK] incredible valuable yeah. you mentioned that one of the most popular hits of things that people are interested in are the warfarin pathways. Yes. Now why, why is that? So warfarin is pretty much the most advanced case of pharmacogenetics that has been studied. why do I say that? Warfarin has more than one drug that impacts its response and we actually know what a lot of those, more than one gene, I'm sorry. Warfarin has more than one gene that's important for understanding its response, and we actually know what a lot of those genes are and how to combine the information for more than one gene. That's, that's a frontier. There are many gene, drugs for, which we know there are several genes, but we don't know how to combine the information yet. We do for Warfarin. So that's the first thing. The second thing about Warfarin is that we also know some of the environmental variables that affect Warfarin response. How much green, leafy vegetables you're eating. What your height and weight is. What other drugs you're on. That all combines to have Warfarin be the single best drug that we have for predicting response, based on the combination of genetics and environmental factors. The other thing that I should have actually mentioned right off the bat is, there are something between 30 and 50 million Americans alone on this drug. And probably or obviously, twice that or more internationally. So we're talking about 100 million people on this drug. there are new drugs coming out that are hoping to knock it off as the leader. But today Warfarin is still an incredibly important drug worldwide and so accurate dosing. Especially for a dangerous drug like Warfarin, as you may know, Warfarin is an anticoagulant. It makes it harder to clot your blood. That's good if you've had a heart attack. It's good if you've had a stroke. It's good if you've had a clot in your lung or in your legs, but if you have too much of it, it can kill you with internal spontaneous hemorrhage. So there's this very narrow range, we have to get it right. And that's where the genetics can help. Right it sounds like thud clouding. It's obviously important when we cut ourselves and we're bleeding, but you know if it's blocking our heart that's not so good. will, you mentioned that there's so many people on Warfarin. the variation in the human genome that exists on the PharmGKB site, for example, does it sort of separate, is it able to document the pharmacokinetic and the pharmacodynamic pathways separately? Does it combine them? How do you, how do you present that information? Yeah, so, we Those are two separates, good for you for knowing about this, and good for your class. in the case of Warfarin, there are both pharmacokinetic and pharamcodeterminants to the response. And there are genetic variations on the pharmacokinetic side that change the rate at which it's metabolized, and one of the most important genes it's called CYP2C9. there's another one called a CYP4F2 but 2C9 to take as an example. It's well known that if you're going to metabolize warfarin more slowly, you're going to need less of it. And, and if you take the normal dose when you're a slow metabolizer you're going to wind up with effectively in overdose and too much bleeding. There on the pharmacodynamics side there's a gene, again with a terrible name. It's called VKORC1 or Vitamin K oxidoreductase component 1. which is actually the target. It's, it's the, it's the protein which the drug Warfarin binds to, to inhibit clotting, and there are some variations Both inside this gene but also in the control region of the gene that it controls its expression that markedly changed its levels. And there are some variations that are very important for determining Warfin go in that. So it's a great story because there's this one PD gene that seems dominant, there's one PK gene that seems dominant. Together you can come darn close to predicting what the right dose will be for, for an individual patient. Even without needing to see them clinically first? That's right, you, it does, you do best if you have their age, because there are some age effects and gender. There's some sex effects. the genetics, and then ethnicity You would hope that ethnicity would drop out. Because you would hope that once we have the genetic measurements. Who cares what your ancestor is. But, I must say that our ability to predict dose for African descent people is still not as good. And, so in our lab we're working very hard. The hypothesis would be that there are additional genetic variations seen in that population that had not been studied yet. But, with knowledge of those, we'll be able to get our level of prediction for African decent people to be as good as where we are now for European and Asian decent. That's wonderful. I want to ask you one more question, generically. if somebody is taking this course and they are super excited about the idea of pharmacogenetics, pharmacogenomics, what advice did you give them to pursue this interest. So, as a patient or as, as a researcher? As a learner, do both separately As a patient they're increasingly companies out there that are not only providing, so I know that your class knows about 23andMe. That's not meant for clinical purposes, but nonetheless, the quality is quite good and you can get at least a suggestion of what some of your drug responses might be. I know there more formal clinically approved testing facilities that will check your genetics. And then give our report to your physician that would allow them to that your physician to make decisions about drug dosing. In terms of learning more, there are some conferences there's well I'm a president of the American Society for Clinical Pharmacology. Which has an annual conference where pharmacogenomics is featured. It's not the only thing but it's one of the things at this conference. The American Society for Human Genetics has a great conference that's going to be in Boston in 2013. That makes this tape dated, sorry, it was in Boston in 2013. there are also actually there's Twitter feeds and there's something called the genetics alliance. Which is a bunch of patient grassroots group that wants to see more genetics used in medicine. My friend Eric Topple in San Diego has a great course on genomics and medicine that he teaches down in San Diego every year. For clinicians and I bet you there are some non-clinicians that attend that. and then there are conferences that kind of pop up all the time. So I think that's one way to do it, it's getting increasingly played in the media, because people, it resonates with people very much, that their genetic background would affect how the respond to drugs. So it doesn't take long to convince somebody that this is not an unreasonable thing to think about. And unfortunately, we don't know how our parents. One of the things that we don't get get from grandma and grandpa is how they've responded to their drugs in general. And, you inherit that just as you inherit your height and your eye color. But that is often lost in the family lore. And so genetics now gives us a chance to recapture that So we can use it for the patient's benefit. So tell me, wave of the future in medicine or not? Absolutely. So, I would be disappointed if in the next ten years, I'm already aware of local implementations of pharmacogentics in some of the leading places. St. Jude's Medical Center, Vanderbilt, University of Maryland We're trying to get things going here at Stanford. So, some of these places are already giving trials. I'm I think those trials will be successful. And then you'll start seeing it becoming kind of a standard of care. And at that point they'll be an expectation that this is part of the elementarian, and in medicine, which would be incredibly exciting. And then all of this work we've been doing. Putting together the data base. Writing the guidelines. What kind of habits desired ultimate effect. Thank you so much for chatting with me. It's my pleasure. Thanks for doing this. Of course. Finding long lost relatives can be really tricky, especially if you don't have a good place to start, but it's a lot easier if you have the help from someone like a Genetic Genealogist, and today we lucky enough to be joined remotely with CC Moore, a Genetic Genealogist. Hi CC. Hi Matt, how are you? I'm doing pretty good, you know we pretty excited to be learning all about this Ancestry and Human Evolution, and we're really curious at this point. You know, what is it that a genetic genealogist does? A genetic genealogist uses DNA testing in conjunction with traditional genealogy research in order to learn more about our roots. And so, does this mean that you have to go through a service like 23 and me, a similar service like Family Tree, dna.com, what do you need as an individual who is interested in finding out more along the lines of genetic genealogy? Well you need to take a direct-to-consumer genetic genealogy test. So yes, that can be 23 and me, Ancestry DNA, or Family Tree DNA. Also, also National Geographic Genome 2.0, although that's more focused on ancient ancestry, then it is applicable to our family trees. I see, and how do, how do you get in touch with people? How do you interact with people, do they come to you with questions, do you help them find relatives? We have a very active genetic genealogy community. We have have lots of forums and mailing lists and there's people posting questions and answers all day long on these lists. So that the best way to, get involved and really learn how we're using DNA testing for geneaology. Also, to get answers from a lot of the experts. We have really an amazing community with incredibly intelligent and knowledgeable people who are willing to help for free on these lists. So that's really how I would recommend getting started. You know, sign up, take the test with one of the companies, and while you're waiting for your results, get on one of the lists and start learning right away. Now, what kind of consumers end up interested in this kind of thing? Do you find mainly just people with a generic interest, or do you find a lot of, maybe adopted individuals? I think all of the above. When we first started with Genetic Genealogy the early adopters were highly educated. A lot of times retired scientists of not geneticists but other types of scientists, and professionals from other industries, and now as we've gone further with it and it's gotten more visibility, it among the general populace. We have a lot more people coming in from all walks of life, all different types of jobs, different ages and certainly adoptees. Because DNA testing for an adoptee is just a revelation, especially for one who had no knowledge of their biological roots. Now that raises an interesting question I think for me and other people is, we don't often put a lot of thought into the considerations, ethical or otherwise, even just emotional or psychological. What are some of the important aspects that you think people should be thinking about whenever they're approaching this idea of finding family members, and trying to reach out and grow their family? I always say expect unexpected surprises. I give a lot of speeches about genetic genealogy, and I've incorporated that in every one now, and lots of my writings about genetic genealogy as well. And that's because my experience has been that you just don't know what you're going to find. There have been a tremendous number of people who have found close family members who had no idea that that other person existed. So, be prepared. And if you are not prepared to learn the truth, then you probably shouldn't test. I see. Now, that makes it sound very interesting. I take it not all the responses or reactions are always positive. The vast majority have been positive. But, sometimes it just takes time getting used to. When you don't know that you have a half sibling or a child out there sometimes. Or a first cousin, nephew. Aunt, uncle, all of these types of relationships have been discovered. It's a shock, of course, I've been, been a part of a lot of great reunions where everyone was thrilled to meet each other. But you know, it's not an easy thing to add a new family member. Especially someone so close. Is there any particular relationship that you help people find or that you just find that other people end up discovering on their own that seems to be more profound than other kinds of relationships? I think a parent-child relationship is the most profound one you can find. particularly a mother, though I think it's also true for fathers. But when mothers have carried a child for nine months and then given it up for adoption, it's an extremely emotional thing to rediscover that person. So, I think it does take a lot of, adapting. Sometimes those birth mothers have been searching for their child they gave up for decades. And, or even if they weren't searching or was hoping that that child would find them. And so they're thrilled but a lot of times they already have another family. So they have a husband and they have children, and they don't always know about the existence of that other family member. So it takes a little bit of time and sensitivity to integrate that new family member. I, I have not actually personally seen any negative responses from birth mothers or children being reunited. There have been some birth fathers who didn't know of the child's existence. Who have had a harder time accepting the truth of it. And if they don't understand genetics and they don't understand, you know, the test that we're using, I think sometimes it's hard to convince these people that yes, this is your child. And I have been a part of a situation where the father denied, the birth father denied at the time that he could have been the father and that's partly why the child was given up for adoption. And when this adoptee found a match at 23 and me which turned out to be a paternal aunt, he was still unable to accept the truth of this. Although the whole extended family has now accepted that this adoptee into their family. And one of the really interesting things about that case is, I used the MT DNA and the X chromosome inheritance in order to narrow down exactly what the relationship was between these people because they shared, I think it was 28% about, of their DNA. So as you know there could be a couple of different relationships in this case. And by looking at the X chromosome inheritance, we were able to narrow it down and say that this is definitely a paternal aunt and she had her other brother test. So also paternal uncle, we confirmed it. And the father still denied it, the birth father, so they hired a geneticist to look over it. And he thought that I was being too specific with my claim but I think that's because he doesn't understand how we're using DNA testing for genealogy and for these adoption searches. And so later when we found the birth mother. Which we found when she transferred her raw data to family tree DNA's family finder. Believe it or not we found a maternal first cousin. So in half an hour I was able to locate the birth mother. And when she was contacted, she confirmed that the person we had identified as the birth father was indeed, and they have gone to the same college, same year, I mean it was very clear. So, that case, has mostly turned out great, she's had a wonderful reunion with her mother and with her paternal extended family, but the father still has never admitted that he is indeed the father. So, it's sensitive, yeah. Yeah, I mean it seems amazing, I mean the, obviously the, the information is very powerful. The, the, the genetic tracing. I'm curious to know from your perspective, do you ever, what percentage of people do you think sign up for these 23 and me services, and don't quite know that they're getting themselves into a paternity test of sorts. is that common, or, or uncommon? I think most people don't realize the power of these types of tests. there's different reasons that people test. As you know, they might be testing for health reasons, if it's 23 and Me, whereas they might not realize the genealogical implications. And it's not always that a match finds their birth parent there, with an adoptee, for instance. Or a donor-conceived individual. We may find a more distant relative that they're related to, and still be able to triangulate this adoptees matches, and identify the probable birth parents. So, you could be identified, even if you don't test. And I think that is just something that our society is going to have to get used to. it's just the way things are going and I believe very strongly in truth. I'm not a scientist by, training, but science is about truth, and I don't think that, it's something that we should deny. It's something that we should definitely be moving towards and knowledge is power so, hopefully, everyone will agree with me and get tested and not be upset if they get contacted by a family member that they didn't know about. Exactly. We are definitely in the new information age. where all of this can really change our outlooks and our family structures in lots of different ways. What you know, for those of us. I, I, I sort of just realized, for those of us who don't know very much about genealogy at all, how, how far out do you go in a family structure as a genetic genealogist? Are you interested in, you know, up to grandparents and maybe second cousins, or do, do, do you build out farther than that? Do you connect whole families? Kind of just give us some idea of how far out you go? Well, we're interested in our family trees as far back as we can go, so with Y DNA testing which has been used in genetic genealogy much longer than autosomal DNA tests like 23 and me. We're looking way back. We could be looking back into the 1400's even, because as you know the Y chromosome changes very slowly. Therefore a father and son will probably have an identical Y chromosome. And maybe a grandparent and a great grandparent, a second great grandfather on that direct paternal line. So we've used this surname studies to go many, many generations back. centuries back. With autosomal DNA, we're not looking quite so far back because of the recombination. However, when we first started using autosomal DNA for genetic geneaology, we were told that it was only going to work maybe five generations, six generations back. And especially with our adoption DNA research we have proven that it works much further back. We're able to identify ancestral couples, a couple centuries ago actually in these, trees and the way we do that is for instance if an adoptee knows nothing about their biological heritage. We would take all of their family trees of their DNA matches, so everyone who's willing to share at 23 and Me, or Family Tree DNA, or Ancestry DNA. And we would start comparing those trees, looking for commonalities and intersections among their matches' trees, since they don't know anything about their family tree. And if we see a certain ancestral couple over and over and over and over, we can be pretty sure that that's probably one of their ancestors as well, and if not their ancestor, certainly in an ancestral line. One of their branches of their family tree would have that ancestral line in it. And we've used couples very far back, like, late 1600s, 1700s, and been able to build down to the present time. That takes a lot of work, believe me. And we wouldn't just do it with one couple, we would do it with various couples, build their descendants down to the present, and try to see where there's intersections between the descendants from those ancestral couples. And if we can do that, which we sometimes can, we can sometimes solve this adoption search cases without a close relative match. If we get second cousin or closer, we can almost always solve it. if we're only working with third cousins, fourth cousins, fifth cousins and more distant, it takes a lot more work, but it has been done. That's really amazing. you know, we have, an individual in our course named Sterling, who is actually submitted his DNA sample to 23 and Me and gotten results back. And he has been able to find a, as close a match as a second cousin on the relative finder. Now, if you were chatting with him and he was looking for a next step, what advice would you give to him to sort of deal with trying to reach out to that person or possibly, you know, finding other connections that he could get more information from. There's a couple different things he should do. First of all, he may want to join one of our adoption DNA mailing lists. We have extremely helpful search angels on those lists who started out as traditional adoption search angels. So they know how to work with the records. And if he has any non-identifying information, that can really help to use that in conjunction with his DNA results. So we can help to teach him on those lists what he needs to do next. And sometimes, you know, do more than just teach him, but hand-hold. And if he gets real close to the answer, one of the search angels will jump in and help. And when I say real close, a second cousin is really close. So he probably could find someone who'd be willing to help him work through this matches and try to identify his birth parents. And the way we would do that is, we would take that second cousin match you happen to know what the percentage is that's in common? I believe it's, it's around, I think its above 1% ish? Okay, so, we would look at the percent, and try to determine if it's a solid second cousin match, or if it might be a second cousin once removed, or third cousin. So if his match is around 1%, that could be a second cousin, it could be a second cousin once removed. Could be a third cousin. Could be a first cousin twice removed. depending on the different ages. So we would look at all of those possibilities, and we would want that matches family tree back to great grandparents or preferably great, great grandparents. Because they may if they are true seconds cousins they will share great grandparents, but if they're second cousins once removed it might be his great, great-grandparent, and their great-grandparent, or the other way around. Or if there's a bunch a removals, it could even be a little further back in the tree. So as much as we can get of that family tree, built from traditional genealogy, we want. If his match doesn't have it, then we would build that for them. So then we would look at all of those great-grandparents first. And we would build, towards the present with their descendants. And we would try to find somebody in the right place at the right time who could be this adoptee's birth parent. So we don't know if it's going to be the mother or the father. So we'd have to look at both in this case. If it's an adoptee who already knows their birth mother, which happens quite a bit, now we know we're just looking for a male in the right place at the right time, of the right age, to be their birth parent. And if we don't find anyone from those great grand parents descendants, we have to go back one generation. And go to great, great grandparents and try building them, to the present. And if we still have trouble, what I would do is start looking at his other matches. Preferably his next closest matches, but all of his matches are important. And, we build spreadsheets. So, this is a little complicated. But, this is what we do. We get all of the matching segment data into a spreadsheet and we sort it. So it's in order. Chromosome one, start with the beginning of the chromosome to the end of the chromosome, so, one base pair all the way out to the very end, 230,000, whatever it is. And we go to the next one, and chromosome two, three, four, five, and then we start looking at people who are overlapping. On these matching segments. And we try to find groups of people who all would match each other. Now we since we know that there's two chromosomes in each spot, right, it might look like they're matching, but they're not So we have to then triangulate, meaning do in common with, if it's Family Tree DNA, they have a feature where you can compare the matches and see if they match, or 23andMe, it's even better because we can actually compare them to see if they match on the same spot. So if I'm sharing with someone and sharing with someone else, I can compare them. So, then we break those groups up into a paternal and maternal chromosome. And we don't usually know which is paternal which is maternal, so we just call them A and B. So, we will have chromosome one A and chromosome one B. And we'll have groups of overlapping matches. Now what would we would do is try to get the family tree information, the regular genealogy that, of, from documentary research. And compare these family trees, of the matches since the adoptee doesn't have one, and we look for commonalities and overlaps. So if we can find an ancestral couple that appears in some of these overlapping matches then we know that that also has to be in the adoptee's family tree, and why is that? That's because each piece of DNA can only come from one of our ancestors right? Now its probably an ancestral couple, so we won't know if it's from the man or the woman of the couple, but that's okay, because we know that this couple then, goes in their family tree. And in this way, we can give adoptees their family tree back piece by piece. So even if we can't automatically tell them who their birth parents are, we can start giving them pieces of their heritage back. Which is incredibly meaningful for adoptees I found. I think it's hard for those of us who aren't adopted to understand that, but I've had a lot of adoptees say to me, I have ancestors. Like it's so strange for them to know that they have ancestors. And this also works well for African Americans who can't get their genealogy, past slavery. I've been able to identify a lot of their European ancestors by doing this. And we don't know where they fit in the tree yet, so they're just sort of floating around in space you know, not connected to which branch of the tree, but eventually, if you keep doing this, you'll be able to attach these ancestors to the correct branches of the trees. So it's really fascinating and exciting for genealogists, adoptees, and anyone who has unknown parentage, to discover these things that they didn't know about. I love it. That was a great answer. I mean, it sounds like so much work, but it sounds like it really pays off to everyone involved. you get a lot of information, there is a lot of value in that and sort of re-establishing your, your identify and your family structure. You know, I have to ask I've never met anybody who is so confident in their ability to actually say second cousin once removed, third cousin twice removed. You know, in just my preparation for this course, you know, I, I, I got, tried to get back into understanding those different relationships. How long did it take you to actually, learn all those different, cousin relationships and does it make sense to you? It does. And as a genealogist, that's something we deal with anyway But I don't think I have a really strong confident grasp on it until I started doing genetic genealogy, and it's so important for autosomal DNA because its going to half with, you know the amount of DNA we expect to see on average in common is going to half with each removal. So you have to understand that that the second cousin is going to have an average of expected DNA of 3.125%. I've seen it down to about 1% and I've seen it up to almost 5%. So there is this huge range. But if it's the second cousin once removed we're only expecting to see about half of that. So about 1.6%. You really have to get a grasp on it if you're going to do this work. Now there's charts that we have on our, International Society of Genetic Genealogists, I helped to found the wiki in 2010. So we have the charts on there. If you ask on one of the lists, someone will help you with that. It's also on my blog. So the information's out there. You don't have to have it memorized. And I do have it memorized because I've done it so much. But it's still get overwhelming and I, someone writes me and says, help me figure this out. I think I have a first cousin once removed. I'm still sitting there like writing it down on paper. You know because it helps so much to be able to visualize it and get it there. And like okay this person's descended from this person, there must be two people in between, and here's the matches' family tree and count back and, you know, it does get confusing. So you just have to be really organized about it and use all the resources available that we have out there. Sure, and I'm, I'm a very visual person too. So when I think about it, it definitely helps to see the graph in front of me or, or be able to see those connections. Now, we've skirted around it and you just mentioned it there, you actually, run a very popular blog called Your Genetic Genealogist. And I'd love for you to tell us a little bit more about how you, you started that blog and what it means to you and, and what people use it for today. I guess that means I have to start at the beginning a little bit which is that I was a genealogist, just hobbyist. And I've always loved genetics. It's not my career in the past, I wasn't trained in it, but I've always been drawn into it, I always really loved it. And so, when autosomal DNA was, introduced for genealogical purposes, by 23 and me, I jumped in with both feet, I was so excited. it was actually Katherine Borges who was the director of ISOGG, who first showed me what they were doing, and I just fell madly in love and it completely took over my life. So, it went from being a hobby to a full time volunteer position and now a career, and part of that was starting my blog. I was answering a lot of questions all the time, of people who needed help right away. And so, I wanted a way to be able to answer those questions, and not have to keep repeating the same answers over and over. I was also doing some really fascinating research with my own family and wanted to have a place to write that up. And I was corresponding with 23 and Me a lot. People who worked over there. Right away, I established a good relationship with them, and it was actually one of them who recommended that I start a blog. It was Alex from 23 and Me. He's not there anymore, but he was one of the early, employees there, and he said, you know, you should write a blog. And so, I'd never done anything like that. And I enjoyed it, right off the bat. It was so fun to share my research, and get input from everybody. And help people learn what to do with their results as well. And it's grown into something I never could've imagined. Looking at my analytics, it's just amazing. Almost from the very beginning there was people from Stanford, and Harvard, and governmental agencies reading it. universities all over the world, so it just literally blew my mind. I mean I thought I would just have a few genealogists reading it, but I think it was the right time, the right thing at the right time. There weren't many blogs. Blaine Bettinger, the genetic genealogist, had been writing since 2007, but he was really the only one doing it, and he's an attorney, so he was pretty busy and wasn't writing as much, so there was a real opening for me. So it was one of those niche things that just worked out, and turned out to do this amazing thing that I never could have planned. Well I know so many people are happy that you started, including us. we're actually going to use it as a resource for our students, who are really interested in the topic. So I hope that they'll, all you students out there will make good use of that. now what I'd love to do is actually pivot a little bit now, and we'll talk about sort of the, sort of more career side of this. As, as you sort of gotten into explaining a bit how you, how you got to this point. Now, you mentioned. Could I add one thing about my blog? Sorry to interrupt. Sure. I just wanted to say. So, early on, I started asking relatives to test. Right away, I realized that that was going to add a lot to my research. So now I have about 35, 40, pretty close family members tested. But on my blog I started a second cousin study. So every time I would test a second cousin I would write up the results from that. And I would show the range of sharing. Sometimes it's low, sometimes it's high. But the exciting thing about it for genealogists was, I started talking about how when you test a second cousin you can identify the DNA that you receive from each of your great grandparent ancestral couples. And that's an exciting thing for a genealogist because we have spent thousands and thousands of hours researching these people. And great grandparents aren't that far back, they're not that far out of our reach. But most of us never got to meet them. And of course we know that they are inside of us, but we've never had tangible evidence of it before. So to be able to say look, on chromosome ten, from one million to 20 million, I know I got this DNA from my proctor great grandparents on my mom's side. And my allen great grandparents on my dad's side. To me that was fascinating, it sounds sort of like nerdy, techy. But, for genealogist it really has been meaningful. And I think it's just going to get more meaningful as we learn more about genetics. I mean, we all know how fast genetics is advancing. So I think that will start to mean a lot to us in real life. We'll be able to say, hey you know, I know I have that DNA in that area from this particular great grandparent or great great grandparent depending how far back you've been able to trace it. And that means that I got, say, the shape of my nose, for instance. I'm just making this up. But you know, but that particular gene. From those, specific ancestors. And so for those of us who just love our ancestors, and would dig in dusty boxes for hours on end to find tiny little tidbits, this is extremely meaningful for us. So I think that's why Genetic Genealogy, in part, why it has exploded the way it has. For our group, our community. Yeah. I, I completely. I, I completely agree, you know, in lesson 11 for our course, we actually go over an example where you have grandchildren who have blue eyes, and both parents have brown eyes, and the question is, is, in general eye color is controlled by several genes but a couple of really important ones. And we can actually exactly trace which grandparent and which grandparent that eye color gene came from. Which grandparent gave you that allele, you can trace it all the way back. And it really is fascinating. It gives you a new idea instead of this, sort of mysterious, oh I know I got this from my great grandparents but I don't know which one or, even on which side, and you're like I know my great aunt, you know, my, my great grandmother Norma, gave me my blue eyes. And it just gives you a new sense of identity. Exactly. I'm so happy to hear that, because I always talk about that in my speeches. But I'm, like I said, I'm not a geneticist, so I don't know the exact genes that are, you know, controlling each of these traits. But I know that some of the information is out there, and all the time there's more and more, and more. because Ann Wojciciki from 23andme has this slide she shows in her presentations where she say's what we knew a couple of years ago. And it's just like a few dots here and there across the genome and what we know now, like what's been identified. To be significant. And it's just full of them now. So all though that that's not my area of expertise. I know that this is meaningful and is just going to get more and more so. So hearing that from you just confirms what I thought. Great, I'm glad to hear that. Well you know? We're really intriged that you say, you know, genetics is a passion of yours but it wasn't actually what you studied. Can you tell us a bit more about what you did before you got into this and sort of what your segue was. Were you just a super, super nerd spend all your free time in genetics. Or was this just a, a really fun hobby for you. Genetics was always something that I was interested in, but I had not studied it. In fact, I was a music and theater major in college, and I had fallen in love with genetics just prior to that in my senior year in high school when I was in AP bio. We had a little genetics, section as part of our course work. And I absolutely loved it. So I should have taken the clue then. And I, I loved it enough that I did think about changing my major. And I even investigated it. But I already had a scholarship for music at USC, and they didn't have a genetics, undergraduate program or I very well may have done it. But I just stuck with my original plan and many years later, here I end up back again loving genetics, but this time it took over my life. So I had started as a genealogist in 2002, I think was when I really got involved, and I was looking at making a family tree for my niece's wedding. And I, the type of person who jumps in with both feet. And I did that and, got kind of obsessed. did genealogy for a few years before I got really interested in the genetics part of it. we, we're just using Y-DNA and mtDNA at the time, which I still thought was interesting. But I wasn't quite as fascinated as I am with autosomal DNA. And that's really become my focus although I use the other types in conjunction with it many times especially in adoption searches. So how did I get into it? So I started writing the blog. And I got so many questions from people, and so much interest, that it literally started taking over my life. I had tons of comments on the blog, I had tons of private emails of people wanting help, particularly people who were searching for close family members like adoptees, and people who had discovered close family members, and hadn't expected it. there's so many people out there that this is happening to, you'd be surprised. And I sometimes wonder if there's much more of that in our society than we realize, but then I think that it's also possible that the people who are drawn to testing, are the people who maybe felt a little different, or felt like something was missing in their lives. So it's hard to say which it is. But anyway, the result was, that I was completely overwhelmed. So I had been an actress, for many years, and then when I had my son, I had transitioned behind the camera, and was producing commercials. And my poor partner has had to completely take over our production business because I work about 18 hours a day, 7 days a week doing genetic genealogy. And I never would have imagined it would have become my career. I don't have a science background, I've certainly taken science classes and always loved them, but that wasn't the direction I took with my career. So to go from entertainment and to end up in a science career in my forties is definitely not something I would have ever imagined. But it is so fascinating. Everyday, I wake up in the morning and I immediately want to jump out of bed and run down to my computer and see what new fascinating things had tra, have transpired overnight and, believe me, there is always something. I'm very involved with all of the genetic genealogy mailing lists. So I spend a lot of time answering questions on those. And I do help adoptees for free. So a lot of my time is spent as a volunteer. I do some consulting. But probably the most amazing thing that's come from it is, I am now the Genetic Genealogy Consultant on Finding Your Roots with Henry Louis Gates Jr. and also Genealogy Roadshow. And there's also another Fox pilot, which I don't know if anything will come of it. So, there are currently three television shows that I am doing consulting for. And, so now, my entertainment background, and this new career, that I never planned on, have kind of come together in a way I would never have imagined. So it's been quite a ride. I mean, amazing. They say sometimes you just fall into something. And I wish I'd fallen into it in my twenties, but still great that I eventually got where I am now. what do you think about the current state of genetic genealogists in the country, or in the world? Do you think that we're in need of, of more people who can serve the same kind of role you and your blog serve? Yeah. That's a terrific question, Matt, and it is something that I think about every day. Because I have so many people coming to me for help, I can't possibly help them all. I stay up all hours of the night and I, you know, don't do a lot of, social activities so I can help these people. It's really fulfilling. And I prioritize the ones who have a really emotionally important question. Like they have discovered something of great significance to their, close family. And I just can't keep up with it. And I need people that are doing what I'm doing that I can send these people to. And I have a couple colleagues that I am able to refer people to and there's a great network of search angels who have learned to do genetic genealogy. Who are also helping adoptees and those like them who have an unknown parentage, usually unknown father, sometimes donor-conceived individuals. But it's even more than just that. I have a lot of, just you know, people interested in their ancestry and in their genealogy. Who are either are genealogists or aren't and are just interested in learning more, because they've heard about DNA testing. There's such a huge demand for this. And maybe a year ago, some people had come to me and asked me you know, if they wanted to have a career in Genetic Genealogy, was there was there a demand for it? And it's changed. Really then, maybe a year ago, two years ago, there wasn't much of a demand for it. And in the last year or two, it has literally exploded. So now I absolutely would say that there is room for genetic genealogy consultants. People who are willing to learn what we're doing. And if they have a background in genealogy that would be great. And if they don't that's fine too. They'll have to learn both sides of it. So they'll have to learn the DNA part and the genealogy part. But if they're adventurous and they're looking for a new career and they love detective work because that's exactly what this is. Then I would strongly recommend that they look into this as a career. Well, great. Sort of as our parting words here in, in the same vein is there any other specific advice or resources you would give to someone who's particularly moved by this subject and wants to investigate about the possibility of studying more? Are there some places they can go to? Sort of [COUGH] learn more about how to become a genetic genealogist that you recommend? Yes. Because the field is so fast moving there are very few books that really address the subject. And every day we have someone asking, you know, is there are genetic genealogy for dummies book. And there isn't. Not yet at least. And that's because those of us who've tried to write them find that they are so quickly outdated. That trying to get something published is very difficult, that's up to date. So we always recommend that you read the blogs. You read my blog, Blaine's blog, Rebre-, Roberta Estes blog. There's some other really good ones out there. Kitty Cooper has recently started writing some fantastic resources. And most of all, join our mailing list, because that's where you really get help from the experts. And the people who've been doing this from the very beginning are very generous with their time, and they're on those lists. So join the International Society of Genetic Genealogy. It's free. It's ISOGG, isogg.org. And then you'll get an invitation to join the DNA newbie list which I happen to administer, and you can go there and ask the most basic questions. and we have people who've been on the list for quite a while, so we also have more intermediate discussions and sometimes even venture into more advanced. So, just keep reading everything you can. That's how I learned this. I got on the list and I made myself read every single message, whether it made sense to me or not, and it didn't at first. But I think it works like you know, osmosis for a lack of a better word. It starts to seep in after a while and it starts to make sense, and you don't even know how that happened because it, you didn't even know what you were reading. But our brains work, you know, mysterious ways. And, I, I promise you, if you get on the list and you read everything that everyone's writing, especially people like Ann Turner, who was one of the first pioneer genetic genealogists, and she wrote the book Tracing Your Roots with DNA. And she's on those lists. I mean, you can't access a better resource than her, and a lot of my other colleagues, Tim Jansen is amazing, he's on those lists. So join us, and we'll help you learn. Great. CC, it's been a pleasure chatting with you. I hope you'll join us again maybe in the discussion forums for our course. That'll be great. I'd love to. Hi. I'm Eric Durand. I'm a computational biologist here at 23andMe. I've been with the company for about two years now and I'm mostly working on their ancestry products which run from a variety of different problems. Before that I was a postdoc at UC Berkeley for another two years, and even before that I was a PhD student in France. And yeah, that's who I am. Great, well, at this point in the lesson, we've been learning a lot about how to connect the dots in our genome to figure out ancestry. And we've learned a little bit about identity by state, where we can sort of match snvs to four comparisons. And we've just learned a little bit about identity by descent. or IBD. And, what we really want to know from a, a computational biologist is, how do you determine IBD or identity by descent? Yeah, so first maybe we should define exactly what IBD, or identity by descent is. So IBD is something that refers to a chunk of continuous DNA. And we say that two individuals share a chunk of DNA identical by descent if this chunk has been inherited through a common ancestor without recombination. It means that you inherited these segments from the common ancestor however far back it was in the past and it was never broken by a recombination event. During meiosis. So if you want the simplest example of, of identity by descent maybe is between the parent and his child, where because of the way, if I refer you back to a high school biology, because of the way chromosomes are inherited, a child will inherit one chromosome exactly from each of his parents. And so, a child is 50% identical by descent with his parent. And in this, in this case, a common ancestor is a parent, himself. And the child is 50% IBD with, with the parent. And so, it doesn't matter how big the segment is. The segment could be the whole length of the chromosome, itself, or anything shorter than that? Exactly. So if you only look one generation back in time, the, the segment will cover a full chromosome in the child. The full chromosome in the child would be identical by descent with this parent. If you go one more generation with, with a, a child is about 25% IBD with each of his four grandparents. But there already, the 25% is only approximate. And it can vary, you can be more IBD, you can share more IBD with one grandparent than with another. Just because of the way recombination occurs. I see. So there may be an average, re-, an average IBD. But it doesn't have to be exact. Because, like you said, the recombination doesn't happen in the same place every time. Exactly. And also because of our ability to detect it, there is some error, some statistical error around the estimation of IBD, which in the end, will lead to slightly differences [SOUND] time and the more variation between this person changes [SOUND] segments become [SOUND] relate IBD and IBS [SOUND] serves the reccomendation process. It would be great if [INAUDIBLE] tells us where this is where recommendation occurs but [SOUND] even worse, we don't even know the genealogy at least [INAUDIBLE] things that are closely related, their second cousin, most people just ignore [INAUDIBLE]. We don't know how [INAUDIBLE]. [SOUND]. Which is IDS, identity by states. You can definitely detect segments between individuals that are [INAUDIBLE] so this is [SOUND] IDB algorithm works. We start by [INAUDIBLE] long segments of IBS, and that gives us some kind of candidate pool of IDB segments, and then we apply vice filters. From these sets to extract the IBD segments hmm And those filters are varied. They depend on the length of the segments meaning that it's pretty unlikely to have a very long IBS segment that was not generated by a common ancestor. We have we also have an applied filter for the frequency of the segment that was. Inherited. If the segment is very, very frequent in the population, maybe it's not IBD, it's just IBS and that arose to, to being fixed in the population because maybe of natural selection or other reasons. So frequency, quality of the segment. If it contains many mutations, then it's unlikely to be IBD. We have a lot of filters. Yeah, it sounds like you really have to think a lot around how to make sure that it's a true identity by descent, and not, like you say, either coincidental or something else. So let me make sure I even understand this. The smaller the segment that, the smaller the segment that appears to be commonly shared the more likely it could be that it's just, you know, a match of identity by say, by chance with someone random in the population. That's correct. So maybe I should clarify the definition of IBD a little bit, because under the definition I gave, actually everyone is IBD everywhere. Just because we all have a common ancestor if we go back far enough back in time. So when we talk about IBD, we usually restrict ourself to the recent past. Say, I don't know, a few tens of generations, maybe 1,000 years. And what, what's beyond this point we, we're, we just don't have the power to decide anymore if it's IBD or not. But if you go, if you look small enough everyone is IBD everywhere. how difficult are these algorithms to write actually you know essentially predict or infer IBD? So they're pretty sophisticated now, and difficulty comes mostly from the fact that these algorithms need to be fast. So the main computational challenge with IBD is that the problem is fundamentally quadratic, meaning that we want to compare all pairs of individuals within our data set. It's fine probably if you're in an academic setting and you study, you have your one-off analysis and you have one or 2,000 individuals and you just want to computer IBD once. You're okay with letting your computers run for months and then you have your result and you'll have it. But in a setting like the one we have here at 23andMe, first we have others of my age and more of individuals. We have more than 300,000 individuals now in the database. And we need to recompute IBD every time we have new customer who come in. So every day, we have new customers coming in, and we need to compute IBD permanently on the fly with them. So we really need to think a lot of how to make this algorithm faster. So that is as far as difficulties, that's purely computational. And the second difficulty is more, I would say, algorithmic, where we need to find ways without compromising the speed of the algorithm to make it as accurate as possible. And the good thing for the second point is that we have pretty sophisticated way now of testing the algorithm. So, of course and algorithm is going to make mistakes, that's guaranteed. But we can assess the rate at which it makes mistakes. Pretty, pretty well now through either simulations in which we simulate the pedigree, and so we know we know exactly which segments are IBD because that's the way we run the simulations, or through pedigrees that our customers report to us. So customers can tell us who their parents are in the database, who their first cousins are in the database. And so we can compare the prediction of our algorithm to the known truth, and that gives us a good sense of how accurate the algorithms are. That's amazing, and it does sound sophisticated. what about Mis, user mistakes that if someone thinks they know who their father is and. That. It turns out not to be true. Yes. That definitely happens. we trust the law of large number I guess. And so because we have lots of people reporting their, their pedigrees and we guess that you know, not everything is wrong, and we can still extract a lot of, it's still a very powerful dataset. We have other ways of checking whether someone is really the kin of someone without doing IBDs. There is some more obvious stuff that you can do. So this isn't just a static feature that you work on. I mean, its constantly changing, you're always having to work on it or update it? We do, we're updating it now, but we definitely try to minimize the number of times we need to update the features. Not because it's not fun to develop new algorithm, but because of the cost of recomputing. Every time we change the algorithm, we don't have just to do this incremental update for new customers, but we have to recompute everything. All 300,000. All three, and it's still, even with fast algorithm, we're still talking about months. And months and months after that sometime. Where do you get your computing power? I mean, as a non-computer science or coding or statistical or math person. How much, I mean can you relate to me how much computing power we're talking about here? So, in production they have their own cluster that computes for new customers, and I'm not too sure how big it is. In research we also have our, our own cluster, it's about 120 CPU's, so it's not huge it is definitely challenging to run very, very large scale experiments on this cluster. And my guess is that soon we'll have to go to the cloud to where we're actually talking to Google compute engineers to be able to compute IBD on their machines. Just because it will scale much better. What happens if you get, I don't know, three million people? Will you break the, the system, will it, do you foresee it getting a point where so many people participate that the computational power isn't, isn't high enough? It's definitely hard to keep up with the growth of the database, but it's doable. And the fact that we build our algorithms to be incremental means that it's pretty easy for us to separate. The customers into smaller batches and run, and run on each batch. Mm-hm. And, and get the job done but, yeah. Well you know, speaking sort of more on the computational side of things I want you to talk to us for a minute about what, what computational biology is sort of all about, I mean, you have a particular a job at 23andMe, which you seem to really like. Mm-hm. but to, let's say budding geneticists, young, young, middle or old people you know, interested in genetics and looking for maybe a job or career change. What is it about computational biology that's appealing or useful? Well, so, a computational biologist, I think is always someone who is trying to develop or at least who implements computational methods to analyze biological data. So in, in my field, in genetics, even in my field, there is a wide variety of different data. And a wide variety of different applications. So, a computational biologist could be someone developing pipeline to analyze whole genome sequences, for example. Just from the raw data to the alignment to culling the SNVs from the raw data and just process the data so it's ready for statisticians, for example, to try to. Mm-hm. Further process it. Could be someone like me, who's, for me a very bad, very big part of my job is machine learning. So it could be someone who's really interested in machine learning and trying to extract sense from the data indirectly. it comes from the, from the realization I think that the amount of genetic data is huge and growing really fast. And even maybe more problematic is the complexity of the data, like any single phenotype is going to be influenced by, not any single but many many phenotypes, is going to be influenced by a lot of different genes. It's very, very hard to find exactly the structure in the data. So [INAUDIBLE] is, is one way to, to tackle the problem. I, and I think it's a way that's proved successful already. So, yeah. And it sounds, you know? Based on what you're saying that, you know? The information age is just growing bigger and bigger, especially in the world of genetics. hm. So the need for understanding and the need for people who can actually use this information and this data is really important. Yeah. how many, hm, how often do you find the biologists, the trained geneticists or biologists understand enough coding or computer science to move forward versus how often is it that it's the math and computer science people who are learning the biology to help out, which direction is it normally? So, here at 23andMe, I think it's safe to say that all the computational biologists came from the computer side of things. They have training either in computer science, or in math, or in statistics. And they learn biology later as fascinating application field for data scientist basically. And so as you know, biology in genetics grows, you will think there will be a an opportunity for many more computational individuals who are interested to sort of learn genetics and biology and, and apply that? Yes, definitely. I think, I honestly think that biology is a science of the 21st century, nothing less. And it will change everything for most people. It will revolutionize medicine. Being preventive or, or personalized. It will yeah it will basically change the daily life of, of everyone I guess. And we need more people, and I think many, many more jobs are going to be created around, around you know computational biology. can you talk to us maybe a bit about just in general the type of coding you've done while you worked for 23andMe, even beyond 23andMe? you mentioned that you've worked on the ancestry. And specifically IBD, are there other aspects that you've worked on as well? So I developed another feature of 23andMe called Ancestry Composition which goal is to find the origin of segments. Not as precise of finding who you share it with, but where does it come from, so it could come from some part Europe, it could come from some part of East Asia, or some part of Africa. So here it's, we apply very, very different methods. The type of coding there was very much the machine learning type of coding. So it's a lot of numerical analysis where you're trying to predict classes for your data. So it's a lot of, you, you end up developing a lot of optimization problems. A lot of dynamic programming is involved in these kind of, of problems. For example, when you code a hidden markov model to relate adjacent adjacent chunks of DNA, then there is some very well-known dynamic program that you need to implement to make this thing fast. And to be able to optimize it to fit your data as well as possible. hm. How do you think the future of biology and genetics looks with regards to computer science and computational biology? Do you think there's going to be a big need for geneticists in general and people who study biology to learn these skills as they go along, or do you think they're just going to need to partner up with other people who know them? I think you could defend both point, point of view obviously. I think there is still a lot of value for being a specialist in your field. Obviously, you cannot be good at everything and, I think good biologists and good geneticists can give people with a strong computational background, you know, hints at what they should be looking at, and advice on what is important in field, what is the problems we need to solve first is definitely very vaulable. So I think there is room for, there is still room for pure biologists, definately. Well, tell us a bit more about in your background, I mean how did you get interested, I mean, well first, I should ask, how did you get here, what did you study in school and how did you get interested in it? so my undergrad was in applied math and computer science, and then I went on to do a PhD in statistics. And because the way, that was in France, and because the way it works in France, I had to choose a field of application for statistics. And that's, only then that I began to think about genetics. Because my PI was very interested in population genetics which is this field in genetics where we try to learn about human evolution, so natural selection, demography, ancestry, identity by descent so then I became interested as well, and I developed statistical learning method to learn about the genetic structures of populations. After my PhD, I decided to do a postdoc here at UC Berkeley because I had a very good opportunity with someone very famous in the field of population genetics. And there I was lucky enough to work on the first draft of the neanderthal genome. Wow. So I actually had the first fully enacted genome sitting on my hard drive, and I could just do my stuff with it, anything I wanted. That's awesome. And I contributed to develop methods that, that estimated the amount of neanderthal DNA that modern humans have today so that was a pretty fascinating project. So, no big deal, right? No big deal. [LAUGH] It was. I think it was a pretty big deal because it changed the view of people in the fields like before, before 2010 most people would, including me probably would have said no, neanderthal is a strictly distinct species. It never contributed any DNA to modern humans. Just was extinct for some reason. And didn't give any trace. And now we know that's probably not true and that left few percent. That's a pretty exciting project to work on. Yeah. And then, I always knew about 23andMe, I've known about them since it started almost in 2008. And so, when I was there, I was local, and so I knew it was a good opportunity to apply. And so there was this job opening, they were advertising for a computational biologist position. At first, I didn't know exactly what it implied. And so I sent my CV, was interviewed and got the job. since then, it's been amazing. And here you are. Yeah. so it sounds like you had a major interest in You know, basic math, a love for math and computation, you know which sort of blossomed into you know an applied, or an application in biology. If there was somebody watching this interview right now, and they're really intrigued about how biology, and computer science and math, statistics work together in an a particular job. What advice would you give them to, to study in school? What would you recommend that they do? Or maybe where would you recommend that they seek, you know career advice or, or, or work? Yeah so as I said, I do believe there is needs for specialists. So I do recommend they keep studying math and computer science and statistics a lot. But they still need to take some biology. At the very least to figure what are the problems that we need to solve today in biology. And how to relate. You know, it's not enough to get out of school, and know list of the ten fastest algorithm for each specific problem that you learned in school. You also need to be able to relate those great class of algorithms to different problems in biology. How you will need to adapt them. How sometimes you have to realize there is nothing that exists already and you need to develop something that's not going to be optimal, probably, but you need to do the first part of the problem. So you do need to know enough biology, at the very least, to understand the problems. Otherwise, for example, for ancestry, if you don't have a very clear understanding of the recombination process, there is nothing you can do. [LAUGH] . You need, you need to understand exactly what probabilistic model you can put behind meiosis. How often it's going to break a chromosome, or these things. So you do need to know enough biology to understand the problems, definitely. So you need to take at least an intro to biology class or something at the very least. So for someone who is interested you know, kindle that passion for computer science and math but you know, also pay attention on biology class Uh-huh. Yeah, and yeah, and just, I guess just do it. I think it's, I think it's the most exciting field for data scientist to be in now. It's just growing amazingly fast, and it's already changed a lot of things. I want to ask you two more questions. We'll edit these back a little bit, because I want that to be sort of how we close. I want to know, what's probably, what's one of the best moments of being you and having your job. Like, what's one of the, the most positive parts or most exciting moments you've had? so I'm lucky at 23andMe, because I have both a foot in research and a foot in product. And I think the most satisfying moment is when you pool your research to make a product out of it, and when you see customers start to use it. And then you know, if you're interested in science, and you publish a very good paper, you're super lucky, you get a thousand citations, its already, you can have a lifetime achievement. But here, if you put, if you make a product out of your research it's going to be seen by hundreds of thousand of people instantly, and they're going to react about it, they're going to talk about it, they're going to give you new ideas about it, they're going to find bugs you never thought you had in the first place. Because 300,000 pairs of eyes, you know, it's much more than yours. So that's definitely very satisfying. And what would you say is probably one of the most difficult or challenging aspects of what you do? that's a good question. I guess, testing is probably the hardest. Yeah, everyone believes they are write good code, everyone believes their code is fast. But not everyone tests enough, especially when you're in a production setting where you're going to put a lot of stress on your algorithm, so the most difficult part I think is to make sure everything works as intended. There is no, it's going to stay fast, you're going to, you need to have very good understanding of you know, the algorithm complexities, the algorithmic complexities of what you code just to make sure you're not going to receive an email on Sunday saying oh you broke the website or we're losing a lot of money, fix it. So, yeah, you need to test a lot, I would say. Great, well thank you Eric for joining us. Thanks Matt. So I'm Sascha Ellers, and I'm the Director of Clinical Operations. I'm from San Francisco, California. Alright, and what does a director of clinical operations do exactly? So, I work with physicians and researchers to run clinical trials. I take the ideas that the clinical staff, the, the physicians have with a protocol, and I work to implement that protocol. So, I will go out to key opinion leaders, which are most likely physicians, try to recruit them to participate in the study. I will work with data that comes out of the study, so data that's from the patients that enroll in the study. do monitoring which is basically verifying that the data that's recorded for our study is accurate and matches what the data looks like in the patient's medical records. I see. and then, you know, all of the, all of the work that it takes to oversee the study. it's a regulated environment. So it's regulated by the FDA, or if, if, in some cases research isn't regulated by the FDA, but it's always regulated by good clinical practice and international guidelines on how to take care of patients, so. So you have to actually be informed of a lot different things to be able to carry this out. Yes. Now for those people who may be slightly unfamiliar with how a clinical trial works or even what one is, can you tell us briefly the significance of a clinical trial? Sure. So anytime you want to test an intervention, be it a drug, a diagnostic test or even just changes in behavior, you want to show that there's actually a difference, you want to run a clinical trial because that's going to give you the gold standard, to show you that there is a difference with your, with your drug or your intervention. So the, the clinical trial itself is a way to ask your question prospectively, design your, your experiment in humans, and then implement that study. I see, so this is sort of like the, okay, prove that it works kind of thing. Exactly. And this process you said itself is regulated by the government? By the FDA, correct. By the FDA. and must you pass a clinical trial to carry out your test or your diagnostic or whatever you want to do? Is that part of the requirement of ever selling your product? It, it depends. so, to, to back up, there're, there're three phases of clinical trial development for a drug. There's phase one, where you're looking for your safety. So you've got to prove that you're not going to do undue harm to people with your drug. And then in phase two, you're further refining your safety data and you're starting to look at efficacy. Mm-hm. And then phase three are your large efficacy trials where you're treating a lot of patients with the drug at that point. so that's kind of the basic methodology. But then within that context, yeah, there is, it is regulated by the FDA. They do have a say in what they're going to accept from the phase three trials as something that they are willing to approve. Mm-hm. And so a lot of effort goes into buil, putting together a study that's going to meet their requirements. It sounds like it takes a lot of time to do this. Yes. so it's sort of a big commitment from anybody interested. Big commitment for companies, a lot of resources go into these trials. And academic settings a lot of resources will go into these, these studies as well. For the type of clinical operations that you manage, or that you're sort of the, that you work with, can you give us an idea of the time frame that you end up working on? Like how long from start to finish for any given project does it take? no it's a good question. So it takes many, many years to go from start to finish. So your looking on, order of seven to ten years. Wow! but within one study, a, a, you know a big phase three study, that can take three years, five years, sometimes when they're these longitudinal studies, they're, you know, lifetimes. So they do take a long time. Wow, so your, your portfolio just keeps going on single project then. yeah. What can you give us an example of a specific, any kind of specific product, or diagnostic or anything that you're familiar with or that you've worked on at some point, that you know, sort of went through this process? Yeah, so, a recent example that's been approved is a drug called Zelboraf, that looks at a mutation in the melanoma cancer Called V600E. So it looks at this mutation and says, if the patient is positive for this mutation, that if the cancer is positive for this mutation, this would be a good drug for the patient to try. And if they don't have the mutation, they're probably not going to respond to the drug at all. So this is a great example of using genetics in in a clinical study to select patients. But you can also use the genetic information to stratify patients. If you want to compare patients with the marker to those without. So it would just be a marker that would be used to look at how you could break apart those two groups to look at who did better or not, in that case. Right, and you said, so that's an example of something that sort of went through this process, and has been approved? Yes. Exactly. In general, for a lot of groups that, you know, bring products through clinical trials, do you see an increase in the use of genetics to actually either, you know, bring these products through or to stratify groups like you say, or just generally bring more possible products to market by using genetic information? Absolutely, I think this is really the opportunity. Is part of the problem with, with clinical studies is that you're confined to the population that you're testing them in. So sometimes we'll see a signal when we look at the entire data set. There'll be a signal in a subset of patients, but you don't really know why, and you've wasted a lot of money on a negative trial. One of the opportunities that genetics provides is to help us get the right patient on the right trial so that it increases the likelihood that we're going to have a positive outcome for the trial, and decreases the risk to the patients or subjects of being exposed to treatments that aren't going to help them. So I think that that's one of the most exiting things about the future of, of personalized genetics. Mm-hm. In looking at developing drugs and treatments. So you, in general do you think there's going to be a big increase in the number of either individual companies that, you know, are sort of doing this as well as the need for people who understand and can carry out these, this kind of job? Yeah, and I think, I think that the, that the old paradigm of, of the big pharma and having these very large studies is going to shift towards running smaller studies in targeted populations of people that have markers that. Mm-hm. That could indicate that the drug is going to work for them. So a lot of that data can come out in early clinical trials or even pre-clinical trials. Mm-hm. And it's just going to make it a much more streamlined process to get those treatments out there. So tell us a bit more about your background. How did you get to be a director of clinical operations. What did you study in school, what did you do before you got here? Yeah. so I have a bachelor's degree in biology. When I finished school, I didn't really know what I wanted to do. I feel really lucky that I found this this world of clinical studies. So I've, I started out in a CRO, Contract Research Organization. So these are companies that serve pharma companies by helping to run the clinical trials. It's outsourced to that group. Mm-hm. And so I I had my first job in, in a company like that, and from there came into Biotech and Pharma and Diagnostics. And have found it to just be a lot of fun. I like to solve problems. Right! So, it's, it's a great place to apply that. Yeah, it sounds like it's, it's a very fun sort of problem solving or puzzle solving scenario. Exactly. Tell me a bit more about the Methodology of, of the study, how you set it up. So, in all studies we'll have a protocol. It's the core of the study, it's the documents written before you even start. Mm-hm. It has information about the background of the clinical question that's being asked. eligibility, so what patients would be appropriate to enroll in the trail. And then it has information about things like the, every procedure that's going to happen and all the data that's going to be captured. and finally, it has a prospective data analysis plan. Mm-hm. So you know, when that data is available, how you're going to analyze it. Okay. All that's important so that we're being really targeted, and going after a clinical question that we've really thought through. So, yes, so once we have the, the protocol complete, then that has to be reviewed by an ethics board. So that's an IRB, an Institutional Review Board, and they make sure that the research is appropriate. So our number one is protecting patients. that includes really pro, not just protecting them from harm in the study, but also protecting their privacy. So there's all kinds of HIPAA, the Health insurance. Oh gosh [INAUDIBLE]. Health In, Health Information Portability. Do you know, do you know. Yeah. What HIPPA stands for? Yeah and protection. And protection act, yeah. Yeah. Act, I think. Yeah, I always get the. Yeah. [LAUGH] Yeah, so so anyway, so there's all kinds of considerations that have to go into to, to that piece. With making sure that patients are protected. So in general you know let's, let's go back to sort of one of the examples you mentioned. Yeah. You know for example that there is let's say a genetic marker in, in, in an individual that says something about how they're going to deal with this drug or that drug. Mm-hm. Or something like that. when you go through your selection process for the clinical trial, is that information, I mean, how, how private is that information to, to you as you're trying to direct the clinical trial? Do you know the name of the individual, and you know exactly what genetic makeup they are that causes this, and then you, you know. Yeah. You either use or don't use them? Though it's a huge issue that the industry's really struggling with. we do everything we can to protect patient privacy, so when we are looking at genetic information, it's de-identified. So, all of these identifying information is stripped. Okay. But that's challenging, because, what is identifying information and So, so it's been really an interesting thing to be part of this evolution in, in having more genetic information available, and trying to make sure at the same time that we protect patient's privacies as, as we go after these questions. Mm-hm. so, yeah, de-identification is kind of at the core of, of how that would work. And we would as, in a role like mine, I don't get patient names. There, there's a single de-identification step that happens, where the patients become a number. And then a second de-identification step that happens where, with the genetic information. Mm hm. So, so Pete, we try, work really hard to protect patient confidentiality. What aside from the privacy issue, how is this sort of new age of personal genetics and sort of the, the advance of, I guess, whole genome sequencing, whole genome information. How do you foresee that changing you, the role that have you to go through in this sort of pre-selection or selection process in in a clinical trial? So the, the short answer is I don't know. But you can see so much potential, Right? So there's this spit for science from 23andMe. Mm-hm. So patients are self-selecting based on their, their history to participate in that trial. And I can see a world where patients would look at their genetic information and then be able to self-select into clinical trials based on, you know, the, the markers that they're seeing. We're not there yet, it's not happening yet, there are lots of ethical questions that have to be addressed on that road, but, but I think it's really exciting. So it sounds like you really get to, in, in your job, you really get to sort of be exposed to a lot of ideas and subjects that deal with genetics. But you also really get to sort of I, I guess I like the, the verb wallow, in the, the ethics, too and really have to be concerned about procedure. Mm-hm. You have to pay attention to detail. Mm-hm. You got to sort of know technically what's going on, and, but you've also got to be able to remember where you are and what you're doing with regards to, ' kay, this is a human study and these are all the things we have to go through. Yeah, exactly. in general how would you describe how difficult is this job do you think compared to other jobs, or? It's difficult probably in a different way then somebody who's actually crunching the data. Mm-hm. We have to think through problems, like sometimes we'll have a study that it's, it's well designed, it, it could yield great data, but we just can't find the right subjects that want to join the study. So then a lot of effort goes into recruitment planning for the study. I've never worked on two studies that have the same problems, they're always different, so. And then, you know, it builds on itself. You learn, okay, we gotta have recruitment plans in place before we start the study. We've, we've gotta think through how we're going to ensure quality data before we start the study. All of these things that kind of become part of the methodology. But yeah, every study has its own issues, and the landscape changes. Mm-hm. So it's, it's interesting from that regard. I don't know if it's harder than any other [LAUGH] job. Sure. Yeah. What would you consider as probably your favorite moment so far in the kind of work you've done? Just sort of, if you can describe like a, a great moment or a really positive side of something you've experienced. Yeah, it's always exciting when you see something you've worked on that's approved by the FDA. Early in my career, I worked on a drug called Sutent. I've worked on a phase one study of Sutent in gastrointestinal stromal tumors. and so when I saw that it was approved, I, that was really exciting. I also worked on a drug called Pertuzumab. Mm-hm. that's called Perjeta, and it's approved for metastatic breast cancer. So that's been exciting, Yeah, wow! That's very impressive! so they're just these little, you know, those things happen. But of course, those drugs were approved many years after I was done working on them. But yeah. So you never know, when you're working on something, where it's going. And you just deliver your little piece of the puzzle, and then other people take over. that's both frustrating, and also kind of cool. But, because you can see in the end, looking back, oh yeah, this is how the, the work I did on that, phase one or phase two study. It feels good. Yeah, fit into the big picture. So, yeah. so equally, then. [COUGH]. Excuse me. What would you consider one of the, I guess, the hardest, or most frustrating aspects of your job that would be? I've also worked on studies that did not end well. Mm-hm. Where we un-blinded data, and found that patients were being harmed. Oh. Which is never a good thing. But I'll say in, in that particular case the company and, and, you know, the ClinOps group I was part of, did a very nice job of immediately stopping the study. Mm-hm. Notifying all of the physicians of the problem and doing what we could to make sure that the patients were no longer exposed to a treatment that was not treating them, was hurting them. Right you know, I, I seem to remember in the news, not that long ago, I only have a peripheral knowledge base. Mm-hm. Of certain clinical trials, but I, I do seem to remember one about statins that was a big. Mm. was a big study and apparently, I correct me if I'm wrong here but like, if you, if you know, but I think there was like a, a big benefit to like people who are at risk for a heart attack you know, if they were either on or off the Statin. it really decreased their risk significantly and it became such an ethical impairment. It became so obvious so early in the clinical trial that this worked in this way. Mm-hm. That they stopped the trial early, and said. Right. And said, it's unethical. To continue. To not give the statin to everyone in this case. Yeah! That's a great story. it doesn't happen that often. And, I'm not familiar with that example. Sure, sure. but yeah, that's very cool But what I think, what's nice is, I mean, you know, when we hear a story like that or others types of stories, you're sort of a face behind all of that. Right? You were in the process of planning that clinical op, that clinical trial. Yeah, and somebody in clinical operations was working very diligently to make sure that everybody was informed of the decision to stop the study, and that all of the you know, like I said, this is a very, in some ways, a very controlled methodology. So we would have to like, let IRBs know that the study was stopping, and, and make sure that all the, the pieces were put in place to wrap it up. So how much of your job would you say is sort of, teamwork? A lot of it is teamwork. partnering with physicians and researchers and colleagues doing the same work I do. I I would work with people in a commercial organization. Mm-hm. of course there's the huge financial components. You're working with people that have budget responsibilities. Yeah, there's a lot of team work that goes into it. Is there anything else you want to talk about related to clinical operations or anything else that you think would be really interesting or relevant to, you know, genetics or just the job itself? Yeah, I mean I think the what's interesting right now is the movement towards personalized health care. I want to see how this, how personalized genetics fit into that. so yeah, so I just think it's an interesting time to be in this field. If you, if somebody's watching you right now, and they're super excited, they're like, wow that sounds like a really cool, kind of job. Mm-hm. What advice would you give them to either learn more, or [COUGH]. What advice would you give them to learn more, or to possibly, you know, become a clinical operations director themselves? I think it's, I know it's a tough field to break into, because lot of people are interested in, in getting into this type of a field. So, I think it's really getting work experience. there are degrees, there are Masters degrees, and there are great programs, through, like, a UC Berkeley, or a UC Santa Cruz, that'll give you a certificate in clinical trial management. Mm-hm. And, and those certificates are great. People learn all of the methodology behind how to run the studies, but it really comes down to doing it and working on studies which happen both in an academic and a drug company, diagnostic company now, now personalized genetics companies, so there's so many different places you could get this experience. So I guess that the main advice would be not to just focus on drug companies. To look across the board for other places that are running studies and, and see if there are opportunities there. Would you recommend anybody who's interested to try to get work experience before school experience in this? I think work experience is the foot in the door that will help to land the job. Yeah. And what kind of work experience exactly? so, there are entry level positions running clinical trials, they're, it's called a clinical trial associate. Okay. but also background in a, in a physician's practice that are, where they're running studies is another great way to get exposure to it. And yeah, I think that, that it's not, a lot of people focus on getting into a drug company. Mm-hm. And, I think that might be the wrong first step to take. It's definitely something to put on the list of things to do eventually, but just to break in and get the foot in the door working in other capacities, it's probably easier to, to get that, land the first job. Yeah, it sounds like to carry out a job like yours, they want somebody who's very knowledgeable, and I mean, you gotta know the ins and the outs. And it sounds like you might gain that better by, like you say, you know, sort of getting your foot in the door. Maybe taking a lower level position on a clinical trial or clinical operations development. Right. Program first. Right. I mean you have to be able, to interview for these bigger jobs, you have to be able to talk about the mistakes you've made. Right? Mm, sure. And what you learned from those, which you can't get unless you're actually doing this work, so yeah. there, there are other angles to get in than just going through the drug companies. Sure. Yeah. Well, thank you so much for joining us, and you know, wish you the best of luck Thank you, Continuing your clinical operations. Thanks. I'm Rachel Zuraw. I'm live here in San Francisco. I'm an attorney specializing in, intellectual property. Especially pharmaceutical and biotechnology. With a background in bioethics. Great. Well, we're very happy you're here. we have just learned a little bit about Henrietta Lacks And what we learned in the story of Henrietta Lacks is her non consensual contribution to science. Mm-hm. And over the years, how her cells were used for many great medical advances. And her family has ultimately, really hasn't been compensated in any way, financially. But has recently, there have been a couple of things that have happened where the NIH has put family members on a committee to help them decide how the genome of HeLa cells is going to be used, who gets the information. Very recently. Yeah, very, very recently. What I wanted to talk to you first about was really Just. Actually, You know? What are the ethical issues surrounding the use of specifically, Hela cells, in the case of Henrietta's story? Mm-hm. But also the, the issue of using tissues from people, without their consent, in general. Well, that's a big question, you know, what are the ethical issues with this, because it has to be couched in a way in a long history of failing to see consent from people who involuntarily participated in medical research, like Henrietta Lacks. it's one of the fascinating things that Henrietta Lacks story and HeLa cells is the ability to identify An individual who participated in research without her consent. Most of the time, these sort of looking back at people who accidentally moved research forward inadvertently, not voluntarily. That's groups of people who were in many ways taken advantage of by the medical establishment. The researchers who took the cells from Henrietta, as you've already covered, you know, they were attempting. There were multiple attempts to find this immortal cell line, and they were taking samples from anyone they could. She was there for therapeutic treatment when they took the cell line, and at the time the, the cells were harvested from Henrietta Lacks, there were not, the informed consent guidelines weren't in place, requiring. Well, how in-depth should I get to informed consent? well give it a try. I'll stop you. Okay. So, the Nuremberg Trials of the Nazi physicians who participated in medical experiments. Well, quasi medical experiments in the concentration camps. The, one of the first principles to come out of the Nuremberg trials is that the voluntary consent of a human research subject is absolutely essential. Mm-hm. And that's been embroidered on in United States law and ethical guidelines ever since, the informed consent. That any individual participating in research needs to be told beforehand They need to have all of the information that they are able to understand, so that they can agree or not, to participate in the research. So, it must be fully voluntary. It must be fully voluntary, fully informed, and fully voluntary. You can't make a voluntary choice to participate, if you don't have all of the information. Now you mentioned the Nuremberg trials. Yes. Which happened I believe in the 1940s. Yes. but the Henrietta Lack story happened I think in 1951. Mm-hm. So was there anything extra compounding the issue with Henrietta Lack that maybe hadn't caught up yet with informed consent in the United States? [LAUGH]. informed consent in the United States in the early 1950s was still a, a good theory, y'know, everyone thought that this sounded like a great idea, but then you have an uneducated patient in the hospital, who doesn't understand what treatment she's receiving. Is not advocating for herself. And in the consect of the time, in the context of the time, most physicians would not have paused to think, I should explain to her why I'm taking this tissue sample and let her know what I'm going to do with it. Today, and we can discuss some other examples, that sort of behavior still goes on, but it's recognized by the medical establishment. Mm hm. To be an actual intrusion and invasion of the patient's autonomy. Of the human research subject's autonomy. Now, for people who are hearing about this story for the first time. it may be important for us to sort of briefly discuss the idea that, You know? To use the phrase, maybe she was a victim of the, sort of. contemporary climate and culture that she was in, may or may not be true. I mean, I guess what I want to have you speak to is, there was nothing specifically malicious done against Henrietta Lacks. Nothing. It's more along the idea that there was a right that we recognize now, that was violated at that time. that happened. Exactly. Now that's one of the trickiest things about the Henrietta Lacks story, I agree, is that at the time when the Hela cell line was first harvested, there was no recognized duty to tell a patient that you had taken some of their genetic or cellular material for research. The researcher who took the material wasn't even intending to profit off of it. He may have had, he may have felt, he probably would not have realistically felt any obligation to tell her if he intended to market and profit off of the Hela cell line, which he did not. But his intentions were pure in his mind. He was trying to advance the scientific cause. Mm-hm. And there was no recognized obligation to the participants in the study to inform them of their participation. Right. Now, obviously things have chanced since then, and, Incrementally. [LAUGH] Okay, incrementally, then. Leaps and bounds maybe not as much as we would have liked. [LAUGH] [LAUGH] Well, I want you to speak to that for a second, then. I mean, did the Henrietta Lack story Change anything? If not at the time eventually? And if not that were there other cases that, you know, had a bigger impact on we will get informed concent? Well the Henrietta Lag stories, you know, it wasn't known for more than 40 years. So, when the Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks was released, when Rebecca Skloot sort of publicizing the story then I think the story has now become part of a really interesting movement towards control over personal genetic information. Which I think we're really just seeing the beginnings of, because legally, there was never a recognized right of ownership or control of your, well in the past, tissues, blood sample, etc before genetic information could be extracted and used from those samples. Mm-hm. But now, you know Henrietta Lacks. You mentioned that her descendents Are now sitting on a committee to authorize the use of the genetic information link from the Hela cells. Likewise, there was a really interesting decision in 2010, regarding a small Indian tribe that lives in the Grand Canyon. Who had given blood samples to a University of Arizona researcher, for it to be used in diabetes and schizophrenia research. one of the members of the tribe found out several years after these blood samples were donated, that they were being used for purposes that the tribe members had not consented to. Mm-hm. The University of Arizona, of course, argued that this was perfectly acceptable, they had the samples, they had no right of ownership to the samples. However, the ultimate outcome of this case is that the trail was able to dictate that they would not authorize their blood samples to be used for anything other than the original intended purpose and actually all of the samples that they donated were destroyed. Mm-hm. So I mean these are just a couple of isolated examples, case by case situations, not really setting the precedent for how we're going to be managing, Mm-hm. Genetic information that are, that is in the hands of researchers, but, it's indicative of the interesting movement towards people becoming aware of and taking measures to control the use of their genetic information. Now, in that same thing, I feel like I've heard, and maybe you'll correct me if, if I'm wrong, If you know, Is it true that, if I had discarded a piece of my tissue or of myself. If I have left skin cells behind. If I have left bits of me, you know, a hair follicle with the root attached somewhere and someone finds it, are they free to use that sample however they see fit, if it's been discarded from my body? At this time there'd be nothing to stop them, no. Is that a hotly debated issue? Discarded genetic tissue, it's being debated. I wouldn't call it one of the biggest issues in bioethics at the moment, but it's certainly out there and I think it's going to become more and more of an issue as, well I mean it's a two-fold thing, right? As both science advances such that we can do more with a discarded hair follicle. And as individuals in society, non-scientists become aware of what can be done with a discarded hair follicle, then I think you're going to see a lot more legislation [LAUGH] aimed at Sure Aimed at preventing those uses. I mean, we're going to talk about GINA. [UNKNOWN] genetic nondiscrimination act, which, that was sparked back in 1995, before there was a very real possibility of workplaces or insurers discriminating against people based on what could be uncovered in their genome. But science was getting there and people started to worry. Yeah, sure, I mean, it often, it seems that we rarely get ahead of the curve on these things. But, that's one of those things where they were. I want to ask one more question, more about the Henrietta Lacks story. You know, there are people who claim that she sorry, I should say there are people who claim that, that the, the Lacks family, Henrietta Lacks family, her descendents. Henrietta Lacks is deceased. Mm-hm. But that her family deserves some sort of the financial benefit, that has occurred from the use of her cells, and not so much morally speaking but legally speaking. When a tissue or a sample from an individual has been taken in a way that we consider unethically or illegally today, maybe not at the time, what are the ideas surrounding financial compensation, in that sense? I mean, is there any validity to those kinds of arguments? Or is that just more of people arguing from a moral standpoint? That is a moral standpoint. The commercial rights to your tissue, once it has been separated from your body. Are, for better or worse, pretty much zilch. one of the first cases on the area was the Regency of the United States of California versus Moore decades ago. But in that particular case More, the patient was going down to UCLA for treatment of [UNKNOWN] cell leukemia. Yeah. Mm-hm. His physicians said that they needed to remove his spleen for therapeutic treatments. they actually intended without disclosing it to him to isolate material from his spleen and from his blood sample to create a highly profitable cell line. And for years actually, they kept him coming down. He lived in, don't remember if it was Washington. Mh-hm. I think. they kept him coming down for visits that they said were therapeutic for the treatment of his leukemia. But they were actually harvesting samples for use in developing a cell line that I think was valued at about $3 million. Once he found out, he sued trying to you know, get a share of this, not irrationally one would think. but the courts ruled that he had the, the doctors of course, violated some rather important duties of disclosure. Towards him, that they should have, like the guidelines of the American Medical Association, their ethical guidelines require that physicians disclose if they have any commercial interest. Mm-hm. [LAUGH] you said they, physicians violated some duties of care in that vein, of not disclosing their commercial interest in his materials. But that he had no right to any of the profits, derived from his, cellular material. And there's actually a line of cases on that same principal. And this is actually, a really interesting debate in intellectual property and in bioethics about whether, whether giving individuals any kind of commercial right to their bodily materials, and the products derived therefrom. A lot of opponents of doing that say that it would have a drastic chilling effect on research, that if, you know, physician researchers were always going to be beholden to the individuals who hopefully knowingly donated their material to the research. Mm-hm. Then the physician researchers wouldn't bother to do the research in the first place to explore commercial possibilities. I don't know whether or not that's true. I'd like to believe a little more in altruism than perhaps that debate [LAUGH] presupposes. Sure. But. Fantasy world, who knows. Right. Anyway, that, it's just a really interesting debate going back and forth, about whether or not to allow this kind of commercial interest. And also, whether to allow, whether to allow control. Mm-hm. Over the use of tissues, and now over genetic material. There have been a number of fights about whether or not, for example, a physician who has collected a number of tissue samples while at one university can take those tissue samples with him to his next university. And you know what studies can this be used for and do you legally need a, legally, you probably don't need a consent of the donors. Ethically, Fun question. Yeah, that is a fun question. Well, so, that, that sort of brings us to, to a new point, then. I mean, we, we, we've changed in the last 5800 years. We do have these new rules of, at least informed consent. Voluntary informed consent. Mm hm. And there seems to be a new worry, as you mentioned a second ago. In 1995 there was a, a big concern about the power of personal genetics, and what it would be used for. Why are people so worried about genetic discrimination? What is the biggest worry in people normally site and say, this is scary, we need to do something about this. This is a moral imparity. What is, what is behind that? Aside from the movie Gatika, which I think is behind a lot of it. It's a very scary movie. It is. I don't know if you've seen it lately. GINA was conceived of in the past because people, people are very concerned that opportunities will be forestalled based on a possibility of some genetic issue that could befall them later on in life. If that they are being, you know, pre-judged, pre-penalized, based on something that might not happen. It seems very, like, antithetical to the western philosophical idea of individualism and free will. Exactly. I mean, it's. Alright, you can understand, you know, from a gut level why of course it's terrifying to think like, you know, why are you, why won't you hire me, why are you charging me all of this extra money to get health insurance just because someone in my family had a health problem that will probably never effect me? No, it seems unfair. Unfair. which is, you know, a very high-minded, ethical and legal concept. [LAUGH] What so, GINA, or the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act, was passed in 1995, and what did it do? GINA was actually signed into law in 2008. It was a very long process. So, it, the fight to create GINA first began in 1995, you know, a bunch of the bills that eventually became GINA started circulating through the government back in 95, and probably being talked of even earlier. I'm so sorry, you're, No, I was going to ask what did what did GINA do? What did it say, what was the legal meaning behind it? Well, GINA's general goal is to prevent discrimination by employers with 15 or more employees, or by insurers, based on an individual's genetic information or family medical history. So they included family medical history in part because, y'know, not everyone has had their genome sequenced. But the idea is, there are a lot of, this breaks down into a lot of different provisions, of course, a lot of different individual, granual protections. That the, an insurer cannot raise premiums based on the fact that, say, my aunt had breast cancer. I may or may not carry one of the BRCA gene variants that would increase my likely risk of receiving breast cancer. I cannot be charged under GINA a higher premium for that. Likewise, your insurer or your employer cannot require that you undergo any type of genetic testing to assess your risk for developing any condition. Your, it permits of course in health, a health care provider to recommend genetic testing for various purposes. But even then, an insurer or an employer can only collect the bare minimum of information that they need to have for coverage decisions. Basically they cannot collect and store additional information regarding your genetic Make up predispositions, whatever we're going to call it. Are there ways around that? How do you mean? I'm just wondering you know so legally I can't raise your premium because you have the BRCA1 mutation, Mm hm. But could I raise your premium for some other reason? I mean, do, are there any examples? Workarounds where people do end up discriminating based on these based on personal genetic information, anyhow? Or is it just, is it not even something people really even try or think about doing? So far, it really hasn't been an issue. and I think it's. I think one of the reasons is because, a lot of the early thought in, you know, some of the predecessor builds to GINA was, okay. Sure, you can't make someone take a genetic test and discriminate against them on that basis, but you can take down their family medical history, and discriminate against them on that basis. Which, of course, you know, principles of genetic inheritance. so that's why that got folded into GINA in the first place. I'm not aware of any successful work arounds actually that anyone has tried yet. Perhaps that's because it's an iron clad law. [LAUGH]. Such a great piece of legislation. Or more likely the challenges haven't made it into the courts yet. [LAUGH] I could go with either of those. Do you feel that concern about genetic discrimination is valid? Absolutely. I mean, you can all to easily imagine an employer, you know, saying, you know, let's, let's not say breast cancer, let's say someone who has a you know, they've had their genome. they've had their genome coded and they show a likelihood, it shows, you know, that they will almost certainly develop Huntington's, Mm-hm. Say, and an employer who wants to make a long term investment in an employee if they have access to that information, they're allowed to make decisions based on it. Might say, you know, we really rather have some who'll have a longer working life with us, likewise in insurer. I need insurance Make their money based on having the maximum number of basically healthy people paying into the insurance pool which then. Right. Goes to pay for the less healthy people. it is in the insurer's best interest to keep as many people who are going to develop serious conditions out of that pool as possible. So yeah, I think that's a completely rational concern that people have that led to GINA. I think it's one of the few occasions when, as you said, they got out ahead of the possibility of experiencing this type of discrimination. You know we discussed BRCA1-1 mutations, we talked about the biology behind it and we even mention the idea that. And Myriad was a company that patented the human gene sequences, the mutations, that cause, that are the BRCA1-2 mutation. And these patents have allowed them to develop a diagnostic acid that no one else can touch that are the three dominant BRCA1-2 mutations. And they have fought vociferously in the courts to keep those patents. It was a long and bloody battle. What what is the current state of gene patenting in the United States? So the current state of gene patenting, thanks to the decision on June 2013, I think it was June 13th, 2013. On the myriad case, is that human genetic code is not patentable. However, code that is synthesized from, like if you, I cannot say, I patent that mutation you have, because I discovered it! However, if you synthesize that DNA, a thing that's called CDNA Mm-hm. That is patentable, because that is a product of human innovation. So a lot of the debate over the myriad case and the patenting of genes. Has really been about the purpose of patents in the United States. And you know this whole history of intellectual property protection in the United States. Which is super fun stuff that probably doesn't need to be done in depth in a Genetics Course. but the purpose of patent code is to protect the fruits of, human innovation. Either if you have worked on something. And you have created something. You are entitled to control it and profit off of that. For, you know, protected period of time. Which has changed of course, throughout patent protection history. Which you're entitled to exclusively profit off of that for a period of time as a reward for your labor in bringing this new thing into the world. So patenting of natural materials has actually been, there's a pretty extensive case law that this was not something that you could do. Because you can't just, you know, discover a mold, scoop it out and say, I patent this, I get to use this mold alone. A lot of people were arguing that genes, the discovery of genetic mutation, took so much effort and took so much ingenuity to isolate. And to interpret this information, that that made it patentable. And, there actually you know, Myriads patents were not the first to be issued. Mhmm. Myriad was really just the worst behaved patenter [LAUGH] a of human genetic information. They didn't make any friends. Exactly. Even since the Supreme Court decision, it seems that they're still going after people. I know that there are companies that, you know, were trying to run with the Supreme Court decision and. Mm-hm. Myriad is still suing them. Yes. Yeah, there, there's plenty of clean-up work left to be done. [LAUGH] But yeah, over the course of this litigation, people were arguing. Instead of invalidating patents like this then having this sort of compulsory licensing system was another idea that's you know, common to further scientific innovation by licensing your patent. Licensing your discovery. And the whole problem with myriad's holding of all these patents that led to all these lawsuits is they didn't grant any licenses. Which was putting a choke hold on research. And of course an individuals ability to access a diagnostic test to determine whether or not they had these mutations. Now, what about other genes, so, I mean, obviously we can't patent human genes, can we patent cat genes, can we patent tree genes, can we patent bacteria genes? Unless they are synthesized, and therefore a product of human innovation, they're not patentable. Now what I find fascinating, and I don't even know if you're aware of this or not, but CDNA. Mm-hm. And our students don't know about this yet, we haven't talked about it in the course, but CDNA is a type of DNA Created when take an MRNA, which is when we have a gene in our cell, and it's turned on, it's transcribed into an MRNA. We have enzymes that can we can, in a lab, add to that mix and turn that MRNA back into DNA. And the interesting thing about MRNA is it's spliced together. It originally starts out really long, but we cut a lot of pieces of the MRNA out, and the resulting MRNA is really short, and it just has the genetic information that gets turned into the protein. So when you turn an MRNA back into CDNA, you only get the relevant coding information that was used, but a gene is actually much bigger. A gene itself has tons of information, called entrons, that don't end up in the final product. But there are genes that don't have entrons, that are just entron-less. So the MRNA is pretty much the same length as the gene itself. And I'm really curious to know what the supreme court thinks of that, because technically the information within a CDNA of an entron-less gene is the exact same as the gene itself. So I just wonder how you know if it really is about the nature of the, of the molecule, or if it has to do more with the information in the molecule. Like is it, is it the idea that it's synthesized? Hm-mm. Or is it the idea that the particular order of the information is not natural? That is a really, I mean I think that will be an interesting question when it inevitably turns up in court. Because the idea at this point is that you can patent something that is synthesized. I don't know what to tell you that if the product that you synthesized is informationally completely identical to the natural product. I mean, the. Although, then, the CDNA that you're working on would still be something that you've produced in the lab. The CDNA. Absolutely. That is, you know, being circulated to other labs to do their research on. That is a lab product. As opposed to, you know, I took a sample from Matt, and I worked on that because it's informationally identical to the cDNA. So. Hmm. I'll be interested, yeah, I mean. I'll be interested to see how that, how that shakes out. Yeah. But at this time, the distinction really is in the Have you synthesized it? Have you altered this from its natural state? And it's not really about information altering, although it's usually about purifying and distilling. Alright so we're going to transition. So we're going to speak more about, sort of, your job and, or the idea of bio-ethics in, in general Mm-hm. How important do you think it is for us to better understand genetic information, but also the nexus of genetic and ethics together for our future? Do you think this is going to be a more pressing need? Do you think we've already figured out most of the hardest stuff? [LAUGH] And hard stuff behind us? where do you see the place of bioethics in the future of genetics and personalized medicine? I actually think that bioethics and especially a knowledge of genetics is increasingly important, because, you know, bio-ethics, as a concept, originated as an idea of how to protect participants in research, and consumers of healthcare. People who don't have all of the training, and the information held by the physicians and the researchers, who are, you know, bossing them around. Standing there in white coats looking scary and saying, give me your blood, I'm going to go do great things with it. It's important in order to, protect autonomy that people have, as we've talked about, informed consent. You need to have the information going into a study. But I don't think protecting informed consent is just about giving someone a form when they're coming into a study and saying, this is exactly what we're going to do, this is what you're going to experience, do you sign on the dotted line? Okay. It's about making sure that people have the tools to understand their participation in such an area, in such a venture in the first place. And that's by insuring that people are educated about, genetics, about personalized medicine. About, the that possibilities their future and their genetic code actually hold. What that actually means for them. The level of predeterminism, or not. That this information actually implies. And, well, I'm perhaps a little bit biased in favor of the study of bioethics, because I think it is super fun and interesting and really important. But, you know science is advancing at a pretty breakneck pace, and you know we won't always get out in front of it like with GINA, but. Someone needs to be paying attention and, you know you never want to say stand in the way of any kind of scientific advancement. I don't think that's at all what the study of the intersection of ethics and science is about. Mm-hm. But, ensuring beneficial and responsible use, I think, is critical to respecting the people who make research possible. I want to know, how did you get interested in bioethics? What's your background? What did you study in school? So my background, I came to bioethics as a philosophy major, as an undergraduate. I, I began studying human rationality, mostly. And philosophical conceptions of understanding individuals as rational beings. And what your ethical duties to a rational being are. That led me into studying informed consent and medical ethics. ' because I found it fascinating. I mean especially how you get informed consent. How you get any kind of consent from someone who isn't rational, was formerly rational, was never rational. Fun questions. Yeah, seriously. and then that in tern lead me actually to becoming a lawyer. Because I realized that, law is the tool that you're actually going to use to make sure that people that cannot advocate for themselves, are none the less protected. So. So, understanding genetics, for you then, is Or at least the certain fundamental principles of genetics is sort of central to understanding what the very questions are. Exactly. my knowledge of genetics. I took some courses on genetics as an undergraduate, and you know, sort tried to keep up since then. Has been important toward understanding what's going on in the world towards isolating my own research questions and to my everyday practice as a lawyer which, you know, I don't tangle in bioethics everyday. I don't tangle in genetics everyday. But my background with, you know, studying science and the implications of scientific discovery has landed me working in intellectual property and technology in my law firmware. I need to be ready to learn and understand a new scientific or technological concept based on whatever case is thrown at me that particular moment, and. You know the tools of knowing genetics has helped me in a couple of cases definitely. [LAUGH] That's good to hear. so let's say there's somebody watching this interview and they're super excited. They really like the idea of bioethics. They like genetics. And they're interested in maybe in law and they just want to know what they could do. What advice would you give to a budding young bioethicist? What would you tell them to study? Or what would you tell them to do or where would you tell them to work? A budding young bioethicist. Well, I'd tell them to read philosophy. Because again, exposing my own bias. where to work? I mean, there're a lot of essentially, even when I started studying bioethics, there weren't a lot of jobs for a bio-ethicist. Now you see jobs for bio-ethicists at pharmaceutical companies. You know who want to know both how to do their research and how to distribute their product. How to market their product. hospitals. Definitely need people. There are they need bioethics consultants, actually, who mediate between physicians and patients to help, help explain the information and the implications of it. Genetic counselors are, you know, field, I don't know if you've discussed in this class, but that's what, where a lot of bioethicists wind up is, translating this kind of, you know, probabilistic determinism. You know, translating that to people who don't have the educational background always to understand it. And help them make their decisions based on that information. Mm-hm. So, you know, best advice I can give to learning bioethics is just be open to figuring out what the next weird issue is going to be and learn all you can about it. [LAUGH] That's why bioethics is fun, right? It's sort of a, a mix between hard-nosed practicality and science fiction. You're paying attention to, what could go wrong? And how do we stop that? Or, you know? Aspirational fiction. What, what's not great right now? How can we make it better? Great. Rachel, thank you so much for comin' in. Thanks for bringin' me in. Joanna, there is a study that shows one in 60 dads end up raising a child that doesn't belong to him. So non-paternity is obviously an issue at fairly high prevalence in United States in general and possibly the world in general. How does 23andMe deal with issues of non-paternity? Well, I've heard estimates similar to that a big range of estimates. from 2% to 10% of, of kids. are not aware of who their biological father is. So this is certainly a big issue for 23andMe. because it's one of the most high impact results that someone who signs up for 23andMe can get. Mm hm. And before people sign up it's very important that they consider the possibility of making a discovery about biological relationships in their family that they didn't previously know about. And so, and that's why when we launched the service, from the very beginning, we, in our Terms of Service, we said. be, you should be aware that you may learn things about yourself that, that you find uncomfortable, that are disturbing, including that your biological father is not your biological father that the person you know to be your father is not your biological father. So we were very explicit from the very beginning that this is a possibility. And so that, the people are aware that that is something that can come out of DNA analyses. And so are people, do you find many people not aware that the personal genetic services offered at 23, I mean, is essentially, in a way can be like a paternity test? Well, many, Organizations that do official paternity testing are doing it in a way that it the evidence will hold up in a court. So it's a bit it's a bit of a different process. So for 23andMe customers it's more like something they just discover right when they're exploring their data. And the main way that people discover non-paternity is if they find that their genetic relationship to another family member is not what they had anticipated. That, that they are, instead of being a full sibling with someone they think that's their sibling, they're a half sibling, because they have different fathers. So that's not an, unusual, and. one resource that we provide is we provide a forum, a discussion forum where many of our customers put out their questions to other members of the 23andMe community. And that's where we've seen evidence of people discovering an opportunity. And very often they have questions like, how do I check with, out, to find out whether this is true or not. How do I handle conversations with other members of my family? And, other members of the 23andMe community often come forward with advice on, you know, who else should be tested in the family how to, you know, approach other family members and I've seen people reporting cases where they've said, I'm not going to tell my dad that I've discovered this, because he's been my dad all my life. And and there's no need for us to change that. Sure, I, I imagine. And so people make these big personal decisions, once they get this this information. Now is there any way for 23andMe to actually track this discovery rate, or is it just a sort of organic thing? So we do not do any formal tracking, it's really if someone comes forward with a story, And said, and tells us and said and tells us that they made this discovery. That's the only way we actually find it out. So it does happen, we have seen people coming forward with stories about discovering that their father's not their genetic father. Mm-hm. But it's sort of the two sides of the coin. We've, we've also had cases where people have discovered their father's not their genetic father. But then they've actually gone on to discover their biological father, So it becomes sort of a story of discovery. That's right. And not just a loss. they've actually found their biological relatives through DNA as well. And, so, it's all part of the big picture that you know DNA is all about families and you can discover that relationships aren't as you think they are and you can find new relationships that you didn't weren't aware of before. Months before the launch of Tales from the Genome, during the planning and preparation phases. I actually created a mini-lesson to see what it would be like to try to teach genetics to the world. Now I shared this mini-lesson with my colleagues here at Udacity. And they liked it so much that they thought we should share it with all of you. Now although the style's a bit different from what you're used to in other Udacity courses because I've pretty much created the whole thing using just my iPad, I still think you're really going to enjoy it. So have fun learning how to extract DNA from strawberries in your very own kitchen. Hey, have you ever wondered, what does DNA look like? You know, deoxyribonucleic acid, DNA. The stuff inside virtually all living things, from the smallest, to the largest organisms. Oh sure, you've seen pictures of the molecular structure of DNA before. You've probably even seen forensic shows, like CSI or Bones or maybe you've even seen DNA make an appearance in movies like Jurassic Park, or Gattaca, but have you personally ever seen DNA in real life. In this lesson, we're going to learn how you, yes you, can in the comfort of your own kitchen, extract raw DNA from living cells and see it with the naked eye. DNA is a really, really long naturally occurring molecule. In fact, you've got over 6 feet of it packed into almost every one of the cells in your body. How do you think that 6 feet of DNA fits into a single cell? Could it be that DNA is long but really, really thin? Or maybe it's highly organized by proteins. Or maybe it's divided into more individual or mobile units within a cell. Or maybe all the cells in your body have to expand to 6 feet in width. Go ahead and pick any and all answers that you think are best. Your body has billions of cells, and if every one was six feet at any given point, you would be the biggest organism ever. So cells can't expand like that, but DNA is actually quite thin. In fact it's 0.000000002 meters thick and it's also highly organized by proteins into individual units called chromosomes. You may have seen a picture of DNA before shaped like this. That's called a chromosome, a mix of DNA and protein. If you look closer, you'll see that the protein serves as a scaffold for the DNA to wrap around and fold into a superstructure. Although DNA is very long. It's so thin that we're going to need more than one molecule if we want to be able to see it. If we get enough starting material, we should be able to see the DNA even with our crude home made extraction. So, let's go and see what we've got in the kitchen. Hey kids, this is Matt, and in this lesson I'm going to show you how to extract and see DNA with the naked eye using common household ingredients and tools. Now this is something you should be able to do in your own kitchen, but you're going to need a couple things from your cubbourd. Before we begin, I want you to try to tell me. Which do you think, of these samples, would be best to try to extract DNA from? A tasty candy, like jellybeans? A raw fruit, like strawberries? Or, a cooked meat, like ground turkey? Although jelly beans are in fact quite delicious, oh, cinnamon's my favorite, they don't actually have any cells inside, so there's no DNA for us to extract. Now, our cooked meat over here, our ground turkey does have self DNA, but once it's cooked, we've really digested and broken up all that DNA and protein that existed in the cells, so it's really hard to get. Plus, we have to kill a turkey to get it, which isn't really worth it. [SOUND] However, our raw fruit, like strawberries over here, these guys have live cells in them and they're chock-full of DNA. And they're pretty delicious. Strawberries have a lot of DNA, because they're an example of a really cool phenomenon called polyploidy. Ploidy is how many copies of every chromosome you have. So, polyploidy is when you end up with a lot more copies than normal. For example, humans have two copies of every chromosome. They get one from mom and one from dad. So we're considered to be diploid. Di, meaning two. But strawberries have eight copies of every chromosome, which makes them octoploid. Octo, meaning eight. They get four copies of every chromosome from each parent. So, if we wanted to use a sample for our extraction that has a lot of DNA, which of the following would we want to use? An organism that's triploid, tetraploid, hexaploid or octoploid? In the Greek nomenclature or naming system, tri means 3. Tetra means 4. Hexa means 6. And of course, octo means 8. So an organism with 8 copies of every chromosome, like strawberries, has more DNA than if it were triploid, tetraploid, or hexaploid. This means that strawberries have 4 times as many copies of their chromosomes than humans do. That's a lot of copies. It makes strawberries polyploid and a great selection for our DNA extraction. Okay. So here's what we're going to need to do our experiment. We'll need some strawberries, some hot water, some table salt, some dish soap, some powdered meat tenderizer. Ice cold rubbing alcohol or isopropyl alcohol, two coffee filters, two short and clear drinking glasses, and a fork. Each of these materials will play a very specific role in helping us to extract DNA from the strawberries. Based on each material's specified role, which two will serve the purpose of helping to break down cells and proteins the most? In the same way that soap is used to kill bacteria by lysing, or breaking them open, dish soap will help to break open the strawberry cells. Additionally, the active ingredient in meat tenderizer, called bromelain, has proteolytic activities, or the ability to break down proteins, that will also help rupture cell membranes and free the DNA. We're almost ready to start our experiment. Lets see if you can help me figure out the exact steps we're going to go through to extract DNA from strawberries. Here is a bulleted list of the steps for what we're going to do. See if you can put them in the right order by numbering them from one to five, with one being the first event, and five being the last. Here's what the steps will look like in order. The first step will be to break open the cells. All of the cell contents will spill out into solution, including the DNA. Then we'll need to break down some of the cell protein, by letting the sample sit in hot water with our meat tenderizer, for a few minutes. Next, we'll pour our sample, through a coffee filter, and this will get rid of any undigested chunks of strawberry that are left over. Then we'll take our filtered liquid, and add the alcohol, so that our salty DNA can precipitate out of solution. Finally, we'll collect the DNA with our fork, and take a picture, to post online. Alright, let's get started. First things first. Make sure you get all your ingredients out and ready from the cupboards. [MUSIC] Now once you have everything out, you're going to want to take your rubbing alcohol and put it in the freezer' because we're going to need it to be chilled for later. Okay, now it's time for you to get your strawberries out. Now, if you're like me, you went to the grocery store and actually bought some fresh strawberries. Ideally you want your strawberries to be. Kind of fresh, but maybe a little mushy, a little soft. If they're too hard they have a hard time breaking down. You can also, get frozen strawberries from your grocery's dessert section. When you thaw them, they're really mushy already and you can use those. What we're going to do is we're going to take our fork. And we're actually going to cut the head off the strawberry. We're going to use two strawberries. I'm going to cut it into a couple of pieces here. And now I'm going to get some hot water. Make sure you run the tap for a little bit first. You really want to make sure you got some really warm water. [MUSIC] Okay. You want to add about a quarter of cup of really hot water from the tap, into one of your drinking glasses. And you're going to drop in your chopped up strawberry. [SOUND]. Come in close, and tell me from these items here, which of the two item we're going to add so that we can actually help break up the strawberries. Okay. Hopefully you picked dish soap. We're going to add just a squeeze of this here, into the water. We're going to take some of the meat tenderizer. We're going to add that too. Just a sprinkling of it. Now what I'm going to do, is I'm going to take my fork, and I'm actually going to start mashing up. [SOUND]. And what you want to do is mash the strawberries up really well, and you want to mix it up. [SOUND]. And what you're doing is breaking down the strawberry tissue, at the same time you're helping rice the cells open, break them open, with the soap and the meat tenderizer. Now, we're going to add one other ingredient right now. We're going to add the salt. The salt's going to come into play later when we need to precipitate DNA. It turns out DNA has a charge to it. And it wants to stay in solution with water. But if we add a little salt when we get to precipitation step of alcohol. It'll come out a solution a lot easier. So you want to add just a little bit of salt, maybe a teaspoon, and then we're going to mix it all up again. Continually mashing to break up big chunks of tissue, and hopefully our soap and our meat tenderizer will do the rest. Okay, so once you've got it nice and mixed you'll remember that our second step is that we want to break down the protein. And our meat tenderizer's going to do that in the warm water, but we need to give it time to work. So what I want to do is, we want to set the timer for about [SOUND] three minutes. And while the timer's going, we're going to keep mashing, and keep swirling. Okay, it's been three minutes. Mm. Smells kind of good. If you had to guess, what do you think it smells like? Of course it smells like strawberries and dish soap. Now we've been through the first two steps, and we've got a nice solution that's mixed up, mashed pretty well, digestive protein. We need to move to our third step, which is where we filter out all the unwanted chunks of strawberry that are [SOUND] left over. And this is when we're actually going to use our coffee filters and second glass. So what you can see here, is I'm going to take two coffee filters, mainly because one just isn't quite enough. I'm going to place it inside the cup here. And then I'm going to take [SOUND] my strawberry mixture and I'm going to pour it right here in the middle. Just like that. Now I'm going to grab the coffee filters by both sides, and I'm just going to lift up, and you'll see that it's filtering through. This is liquid that contains the salty DNA that's dissolved in it. And all those big strawberry chunks are left in the coffee filter. So I can squeeze the filter just a little bit, and get even more out. Okay. Once you have enough of this pink salty DNA strawberry liquid. Then you're ready to go on to the next, and forth step, where we precipitate the DNA, with alcohol. So I'm going to go to the freezer, I'm going to get out our rubbing [NOISE] alcohol that we put in there so it's, nice and cold. We have our strawberry liquid. I have my alcohol. I'm going to uncap it. I want you come in close, so you can see what I'm doing. Now, I've got my pink liquid. I'm going to add about an equal volume of the alcohol to the glass. And I want to slowly pour it down the side. Really carefully, so as not to disturb what's going on. Now if I do this right, I should have a nice layer of alcohol laying on top of my strawberry liquid. And I don't know if you can see it clearly yet. But right there in the liquid. In what we call the interface. There's some cloudy material showing up. And so I'm going to take my fork. You put it inside. And I'm going to swirl. Now if you come in over top of me here, what you'll notice. If you did this well, you see what's attached at the bottom of my fork? That's DNA right there. So I'm going to put it back in, spool it around a little bit more, and pull it right out, and there you have it. Now, it's time for you to take a picture, that you can put on Facebook, of you and your DNA. [MUSIC] So now, with your spool DNA and picture of yourself that you've put online, you can show the world what a great scientist you are. Of course, if you go to any dinner parties, and find yourself in the kitchen, it also works as a great party trick. If you're feeling ambitious, you can also try other fruits, like bananas, which are triploid and kiwi fruits which are hexaploid. And the amount of DNA you get out, is predicated entirely on the amount of DNA you put in. So I hope you've enjoyed this lesson. Good luck if you try it on your own. Thanks for watching and good science. [MUSIC] [SOUND]. Hey there, I'm Matt. One of the instructors from the course Tales from the Genome. I'm really excited that you logged on to learn with us. What do you say we get this genetics party started? You mind loading the course? [SOUND]. Welcome to Tales from the Genome. And adventure in DNA, identity, and health. I'm Matt. And I'm Lauren. And together, we'll be your genome guides. Now, I have my PhD in cell and molecular biology and I'll be your main instructor for this course. And I have my Masters degree in experimental psychology. Matt approached me to help him teach this class because I know a little bit about genetics through psychology, but I always want to learn more, and I thought this was a great opportunity for me to learn about my own genome. And help you learn about yours. This course should be accessible to anyone of almost any age or any knowledge base. If you're still in high school, or even if you already have a graduate degree. If you find yourself taken a lesson, and the information in it is a little too basic for you, feel free to jump ahead or skip around. You can use the syllabus to find out which portions are most relevant to you as a good starting point. Together we'll discover the secrets of your genome. And, reveal a new perspective of what it means to be human. We have an awesome course planned for you. We're going to facilitate learning and discussion on different biological concepts, as well as some social issues. But before we jump in, we want to take a brief moment to mention our course expectations for you, as well as give you a little orientation on how to interact with us here. Now first and foremost this course is going to require a time commitment. So, be prepared. But the joy of online learning means you can take the course however you're the most confortable. Hey guys. What you want to do tonight? Oh, sure. We can do class. no. I'm actually working. This course is 12 lessons long. And each lesson is going to vary in the time commitment required, and level of difficulty. And that brings us to our second expectation: [CROSSTALK] Interactions. [SOUND] You may think that our lessons are confined to this video screen. But in reality you can interact with us through this screen too. Stopping to think and answering questions can really facilitate future learning. We want you to click to respond or type in a short response. Now, it's important for you to remember that these interactions are not graded. We want you to think of these as learning opportunities. Now, if anything's unclear, check out the solution video for help. Or you can go back and re-watch videos. For example, we might ask who are the coolest genome guides ever? Go ahead and pick which answer you think is best. After you answer a question, there's typically going to be a short video explaining the answer before moving on to the next video or topic. For example, right now I'm explaining that all the answers to the last question were correct. Go us! Woohoo [NOISE] Now some questions are going to have right or wrong answers. If you don't get it right the first time, don't worry about it. Just pay attention to any feedback that you see appear on the screen and try again. And some questions don't have right or wrong answers at all. These questions are just meant to get you thinking. Or poll the class in interesting ways. And remember, you should have fun answering these questions. After all, genetics is all about fun. Another key point is that you don't need any extensive knowledge of biology or genetics to take this course. The Udacity team has worked really hard to make sure that this class is accessible for everyone. Ideally, you'll have some exposure to high school biology but event that's not necessary. Now if you need resources to help you out where you're in the course, there are two main places for you to look. The first is in the section titled Instructors' Notes. And that's where we as your instructors will post relevant information to the concepts and topics that you see in the videos. The other important section is called Discussion Forums. And this is where you and your fellow classmates can actually post links to topics, or questions that you want to talk more about. For example, there is a discussion forum on this page entitled the meaning of life. And I've put a permanent link to it in the instructor's notes on this page. Now I want you to click on that link and go see what it says because you're going to need the information to answer the following question. What is the answer to life, the universe, and everything? Now, if you clicked on the discussion link for this question, you would've found that it's a reference to the book, The Hitchhikers's Guide to the Galaxy, in which case, the answer was 42. Now, if you ever have a question that you don't know how to answer it, go to the discussion board and look at the forums. Ask the question there, see if somebody else has the same question. You could also check out the instructor's notes. Let's recap our four major expectations. One, a time commitment. You need to be sure to set aside enough time to complete the course. Two, interaction. We want you to actively engage with us here by answering the questions as we go through them. Three, minimal background. You don't need much information. So just bring yourself, and you'll get through the course just fine. And four, get and give help. If you need extra additional resources, be sure to check out the links under the instructor's notes in the discussion forums. And as always, help out your fellow classmates. If you have information that can help answer a fellow classmate's question, go to the forums and give it a shot. We could always use another genome guide. Matthew? Yes? I have a surprise for you. Oh what'd you get me? My genome. Oh you got your genome's information back. What do you think? I love it. It's really exciting. I found out a lot about my traits. Including some diseases that I'm not a carrier for. Great. Which is great news. As well as my risk factor for some complex traits. Well, it's kind of like a big storybook of you, isn't it? It is, except that there's something missing that I kind of wanted to know about. What's that? I wanted to know, like, where I fit in in the grand scheme of things. Well, Lauren, when, when two people love each other very much. Okay, Matt, Matt, I know where I came from in that way. Oh. I've had that talk before. Right. I'm talking about, like, 10000 years of ancestry. I want to know where I came from like that. Well, it is true. Your genome can really reveal that information giving you close family members even answers into your deep distant past. All you need to know, is where to look. What? Where are we? Yeah, this is the genome library. And all of these books represent the genomes of thousands of people all across the world. Wow! And using this information we can make comparisons and, possibly find family relationships that you never even knew about before. Well, I mean, I know I have a brother, and I have half-brother, I have parents, I know those things. Well sure, you know these relationships. But your genome has a lot of secrets to it, and it could possibly reveal that some of the relationships you think are true may not be as true as you think. And it could reveal new relationships you never even knew about before. And don't forget, there are adopted individuals who never even had an opportunity to know who their blood relatives are, so this could be a great opportunity for them. Well they're really fortunate to have this school, I think this is an awesome opportunity for anybody. But, I am still interested in knowing where I fit in the grand scheme of things. Well, you're in luck, Lauren, because with this genomic information, we can get pretty far in answering that question. I'm Sterling Tadlock. And I grew up in eastern North Carolina. in a really small rural community. about 50 minutes southeast of Raleigh. In a little town called Grantham. I was raised as an only child. My dad was a Sheriff's Deputy. My mom was a stay at home mom. we lived a pretty country, a rural life. you know, we never really traveled outside of the state. and I grew up as an only child thinking my parents were my real parents. which I still classify them as my real parents. But yeah I didn't really any thing, think anything about it until I got a little bit older. And sort of realized that, you know, I don't really look like my parents How old were you when that, when that happened? I was probably, you know, probably 11, 12 when I sort of noticed. You know, my parents have different body shapes than me. I always just, sort of wondered, why is that? And, sort of just put it to the back of my mind. Mm hm although I did notice that my friends, parents and their siblings looked more similar than I looked to my parents. Mm hm But again, I didn't really question in it because I didn't really think anything of it. That was really the only exposure I really had, I never really understood, you know, growing up what adopted meant. Just because sex is not talked about in eastern North Carolina and the understanding of where you come from. through your biological parents wasn't really ever brought, so the concept of being adopted was also never brought up. So how old were you when you finally actually sort of, figured it out? Or someone talked to you about it? So, it was a really interesting story. I was 14. And like most people in eastern North Carolina was raised in the Church. The Church was a big facet of everyone's life. And I went to Sunday School one day. I was 14 and coincidentally it was Father's Day [LAUGH] And in church that day, in Sunday school lesson the teacher was talking about how whenever you become adopted. Or whenever you become a Christian, you become adopted into God's family. And he then looked at me and he said So, why don't you tell the class what it feels like to be adopted, Sterling. And, that sort of struck me. Because I, I had never heard that I was adopted before. Like I said, I thought that... Mm hm. You know? I look a little bit different than my parents. And but then I saw pictures of me as a baby with my parents. And so. You know, I just thought about it and I was like no, I can't be adopted. And I remember there was a lil, a girl, a distant cousin of mine who said Sterling's not adopted those are his real parents. and so, I sort of squashed it in church although there was this rumbling anxiety within me. Mm-hm. and then I went to the sermon portion of church and I sat between my grandmother, whom I refer to as me-maw, And my mama on the other side. And [COUGH] I leaned over to my memaw and I was like, so am I adopted? And she didn't look at me, she looked, kept looking straight at the pulpit. And she's like, you're going to have to ask your mother about that. and so then I turned to my mama and I was like, so I heard in Sunday school that I'm adopted. And she's like, well you are. And I just kind of froze, right there in the pew, and [COUGH] I just was in shock. I, I didn't really react at first, and then I just started tearing up and crying and stood up and just sort of left. I think it's one of the sort of disadvantages in a way of being adopted is this notion of survivor's guilt where there's a big disaster. this is where the term came form originally, I believe. There's a big disaster and those that survive the disaster feel guilty because they are not the ones that have been injured or killed... And, when you're adopted, you feel like, I was chosen, you know, by my parents. But there are plenty of other people still in the foster care system who weren't adopted. And you feel like you should be grateful, you know, that you were adopted. And you should be thankful every day that you live that you have a family that you know, raised you and supported you. And, and I am thankful, but you know, anytime I question being adopted, who my biological parents are, that's like a twinge of guilt. How did that make you think about your biological parents? Once you discovered this information, what was going through your mind about the scenario in which you found yourself? Right. Did you have a lot of questions? Yeah, I mean, I think there's a lot of fantasy that goes on with, you know, who they could be. Like, are they like me? Do they act like me? Do they talk like me? What are their professions? Like, what if it's like, you know. I remember when I was a teenager, like what if it's like some European like. royal family. [LAUGH] Who like, ships their child off to North Carolina. And was reared by you know, some really awesome Southern parents. Mm-hm. that obviously came to mind. Also like, what if they're in jail? Mm-hm. Or you know, you know, not even alive. Like, even that, that came into mind. So I was just always curious as to what they were. What they were like. and also what was the situation that led them to having to put up a child for adoption? I'm also just sort of curious about their lives. Like, what are they like? if I have any siblings or not. I mean that's always a question of mine. if there are any health considerations? You know, there are a lot of health diseases medical diseases. Have the huge genetic component and like knowing that information is important to me. You know, as part of participation we've offered you an opportunity to actually submit a DNA sample and find out. You know, if there in the 23andMe program if you might find any genetic relatives of yours. you know, what are your thoughts surrounding that. You, you've submitted your, your, your DNA. You submitted your sample, but you haven't seen your results yet. you know, what are some thoughts going into that about participating in a program like that. And what you expect to see, what you expect to find and how that might make you feel. You know, to be honest, I haven't thought about it too much, because Again, that fantasy play of, you know, finding my biological parents. Like, finding the DNA that may match with mine and seeing what percentage the similarities are and being able to contact them. I don't want to disappoint myself, because I know that the the highest likelihood is that there's probably going to be some distant, distant cousin that has similar DNA to, to me. So I'm not really putting a whole lot of stock into it, as far as finding somebody. But I am interested in seeing you know, the other facets of my DNA. That 23andMe will sort of elucidate such as risk for medical diseases. And pharmacological sort of ability to metabolize drugs and respond to them. I think that's a part of it, and just generic ancestor stuff. Are you excited to see your 23andme results? I am, I am, I've been holding out. They've actually been available for a little bit now, but For the purposes of the interview, I've sort of held back. I'm waiting on the edge of my seat to see what they say. Everybody, especially adopted individuals, have a unique story to tell. So if you feel comfortable, I want you to share with us. Indicate whether or not you've been adopted. Remember just like for all the other questions, your responses are kept anonymous from other students. If an adopted individual wanted to find his or her parents, they might choose to look by signing up for a genome service that will get their genome's information and compare it to everyone else's genome in the system to see if there's a match. For example, you'd imagine we might just take some of the sequence from the adopted person and compare it letter for letter, to a sequence from a random person. We could even do the comparisons with a lot of random people. But there are three billion base pairs in every genome. Six billion once you count both copies of all your chromosomes from each parent. So doing a letter by letter comparison of the whole thing would take such a long time and a lot of computational power. Instead, the general technique used for comparisons is similar to that used to match DNA at crime scenes, or even in paternity tests. It involves the general statistical process known as sampling. Sampling is concerned with the selection of a subset of individuals from within a population. To estimate characteristics about the whole population. In this case instead of looking at all three billion letters in the human genome, we'll select a random subset of letters, let's say a million from one genome and compare the same subset from one genome to another. So if we do this random sampling. What do you think are two advantages of random sampling compared to total genome sequencing? Make sure you check two of the answers. Two advantages of sampling in genome rather than sequencing the whole thing are that the cost is lower and the data collection is faster. Now overall, this is because we're analyzing less information and we're measuring less information. Unfortunately, one of the disadvantages is that since we're not looking at the whole genome,.We may be missing large regions of variation. We're limited to the subset that we actually choose from our collection. So deciding on the subset will be important. Sampling can be a lot cheaper and faster than trying to sequence a whole genome and compare it to something else. But, still, random sampling can have it's own disadvantages. For example, let's try a random sample from a random page of my genome book, where we just take one letter from the random page. We can turn the page and take another letter, and then turn the page and take another letter. And keep doing this over and over and over again. But what if we do this for lots of people, and find that most of the regions we sampled show no difference at all? We could have compared genomes from all over the planet, and not seen a single difference, because all human genomes are already over 99% identical. So the key is to sample in regions where we know there's going to be some variability. And of course this is when our single-nucleotide variants or SNVs are really going to come in handy. Personal genetic companies like 23 and me don't just randomly sample the genome. They're actually going to take a million individual letters of the genome, SNVs to be precise. Regions where they know even comparing closely related individuals, they'll expect to see some differences. Armed with our list of 1 million SNVs, we're ready to compare genomes all over the world. Now, for example, we can take this genome of person 1. And we can go SNV by SNV, and match them to the SNVs that we find in the genome of person 2. For example, let's say we look at an SNV on chromosome three, I've marked the location of the SNV here in red, in the genomes of person 1 and person 2. For example, person 1 may have two alleles for SNV one just like person 2. Because person 1 and person 2 are identical at the site, we give them a score of 1. Now let's take a look at a different SNV on chromosome seven, here I've marked it on the actual chromosome seven for person 1 and person 2. Now, for the second SNV, person 1 is homozygous for the C allele, but person two is heterozygous, with a C and a G allele. So they would be assigned a matching score of 0.5. Right? It's a half match. Out of the two possible letters that they could match, only the C's match. And now let's look at this last SNV. SNV three here, on chromosome 16. In this case, person 1 is homozygous T for SNV three, but person 2 is homozygous G. There is no match at all. So the matching score in this case would be 0. So in each case, we can look at each individual SNV, and make a comparison from Person 1 to Person 2 and assign a score, of either 1, 0.5, or 0. Or we could look at multiple SNVs at once and take the average. The average here, we had 1 plus 0.5 plus 0 is 1.5 divided by 3 is 0.5. Our overall matching score for all three SNVs together is half. This means that between person 1 and person 2 for these SNV's, half of the alleles they have match. This matching score is also referred to as an IBS score, or an identity by state score. Identity by state is just the coincidental possession of alleles that appear identical. It's your identity by an individual state, or SNV. We can also write this score from 0 to 1 as a 0% to 100%. Where 100% is a perfect match, 50% is a half match, and 0% is no match at all. So let's take an individual that has an allele composition for four SNV's like this. The first SNV is CC. The second one is TG. The third one is AG. And the fourth one is AA. Which of the following options would this individual share an IBS score of 50%, on average for all four SNV's? Be sure to check any and all that apply. Only by comparing the SNVs with the third option here do we achieve an IBS score of 50%. So this is the only right answer here. So how did we figure this out? Let's take a look at the first SNV. GC, CC. There's a 0.5 match. 50%, right? TG, TG is a 100% match, GG, AG is a 50% match, and TT, AA is a 0% match. If we average this, 0.5 plus 1 plus 0.5 is 2, and we divide it by the total number, which is 4. 2 over 4 is one half, or 0.5, or 50%. Now, let's look at the first option. GC, CC is 0.5, 0.5, 0, and then 0.5. This gives us 37.5%. So that's not right. The second answer is low, only 25%. We have two SNVs that have a half match and two SNVs that have no match at all. And the last answer is even lower, at only 12.5%. Only one allele in one SNV matches, at 50%. So the average is 12.5% Now, in the last exercise, we only looked at four individual SNVs in the genome. But now, let's imagine that we expand our comparisons from just four SNVs, to 1 million SNVs across the genome. Then we have a lot more statistical power behind our numbers. The SNVs that 23 and ME uses for genome comparisons. Are spread all over the chromosomes in the genome. The autosomes, the sex chromosomes, and the mitochondrial chromosome. Once the SNVs have been determined for an individual, then we can actually determine the IBS score between any two people sampling from a million positions in the genome. Now you may be surprised to find that the IBS score, if we measure over a million SNVs, the IBS score between you and the most distantly related person we could find around the world. You would still have an IBS score of about 70%. Even after looking at all these positions, 70% of them would be identical with another person. The person that you're most distantly related to. Now this is when we focus specifically on the SNVs, the single-nucleotide variants, regions of the genome that we know and expect there to be variation. Remember the human genomes, though, are already more than 99% identical. So even though we're sampling from regions, that we know should be different, and in general we do find differences between humans here. Humans just aren't that different from each other. And the IBS score between you and most humans will be about 70% or higher. So if the background IBS score for you and the most distantly related person is about 70%, then I want you to assume minimal inbreeding and tell me what you would expect your IBS score to be between you and one of your biological parents. About 70, 75, 85, 95, or 100%? I want you to pick the answer that you think is best and then tell me why in this text box here. The answer to this would be about 85%. Now the reason for this, is that you're about 70% identical to a random person. You, with your IBS score. So this is the background. You're 100% identical to you. So there's a difference of 30% in here. Would you know that for any given parent, you're half related to a parent. So in a sense, all we have to do is take half of the difference of this 30% and we get essentially, roughly the IBS score between you and a parent. IBS scores are powerful tools that can give you a sense of genetic identity, with other humans around you. But it's not just the presence of similar SNVs that gives away clues to relatedness but, it's also the order of the SNVs. Remember when personal genetic information is obtained, not only is the individual SNV determined, but we know where exactly it's placement is on the Chromosome. This order on the chromosome is significant, when we consider that your genome is one set of chromosomes from one parent and one set of chromosomes from another. What if instead of doing a point by point comparison of SNV's, we actually look at the order in which you share them along the length of a chromosome. For example lets say you find that your 50% related to one individual. Now this is not 50% IBS. Okay, this is not what we're talking about. We're talking about relatedness you're 50% or half related to someone. In the genetics world there are only two options that allow you to be half. Exactly half related to someone. You're half related to a Parent. Right? You have two parents. You receive half your chromosomes from one and half from another. And you're also half related to one of your Full Siblings. So based on what you know about chromosome transmission and recombination which we learned about in lesson five. Which of the following chromosome comparison diagrams indicates a parental relationship and which one indicates a full sibling relationship? Now in this particular scenario the shaded areas are whole links of shared SNVs. So there is were we had an IBS match. These SNVs match with the other person. Remember you have two copies of every chromosome so imagine that these are your chromosomes. And in this scenario, you match them with an individual, and you see the shaded regions are shared. You match with another individual, and you see that the shaded region is shared here along the length of the whole chromosome, but not the other. Indicate which one is the parental relationship and which one is the full sibling relationship. By entering the number one or the number two in the text boxes you see here. Okay, this first set here represents a full-sibling relationship; and the second set represents a parent-child relationship. Now, why is this? Well, let's start with the parental one. Remember that you receive a whole chromosome from one parent, and a whole chromosome from another parent. So if you compared your IBS score, the SNV's on your chromosomes You should have a complete matching set for the whole length of a chromosome. But two siblings, on the other hand, didn't receive the same kind of chromosome form each parent because of what? Recombination during meiosis. So instead they share segments of certain chromosomes with each other from both parents. So in the chromosome they got from dad, they'll share some segments. But remember, dad's chromosomes recombine. And so it's not the same for both children. The same thing with mom's chromosomes. You'll notice that there's roughly 50% here in the parental child relationship, sharing 50% of the DNA. Right one whole chromosome set matches and the other one doesn't. And even in the full sibling case, you end up with roughly 50%. If we add up the shaded region it's about 50%, in the unshaded regions that's also 50%. So even though you're half related To your full parents and your full siblings. The half that's related is different when we look at the order of the SNVs on the chromosome. This king of analysis is the basis for something we'll learn about in just a little bit, called identity by descent or IBD. Every child, including you, has two parents. A mom and a dad, and each parent passes down one copy of their chromosomes. Here, I've color-coded them for you, to make it easier to see. Your blue chromosomes came from dad, and your pink chromosomes came from mom. In the same way that your parents gave their chromosomes, one day, you're going to pass down your chromosomes to a child of your own. But the question is, what will they look like? Now, because of meiosis, which we learned about in Lesson five, recombination causes a parent's chromosome pair to mix and match their information roughly equally. So when you have kids, your chromosomes in your germ cells, when they undergo meiosis are actually going to exchange pieces of information, so that no longer do you have these discrete individual chromosomes, the set you got from mom and the set you got from dad, but you're going to mix and match the information you got from mom and dad on the chromosomes. So the chromosomes that you pass down to your child will actually be a mix and match of your own parents' chromosomes that they gave to you. But every time recombination happens during meiosis for each of your germ cells, every time a new sex cell or gamete is made, a different recombination happens. And the set of chromosomes that you pass down to one child will actually be a different mix and match of your own parents' chromosomes, then another child you pass down those chromosomes to. There are virtually an infinite number of combinations for this to happen. So, even though each of these children is receiving half of their chromosomes from you, the parent, the half that you give one child is roughly only about half the same as the set you give to the other child. For any given parent, you and a full sibling only share about 50% of the same genetic information. Since it's the same for both parents, together you're considered about 50% related to each other, through both parents, because it's about the same through individual parents. And it all has to do with recombination. So over all, we can look at identity by state. So, understanding the effects of recombination and the fact that a 50% relation between siblings, is not the same thing as a 50% relation between parent and child. What would you assume if you found a 100% relatedness with someone? Take a look at the answers and select one. While you may think it is an error at first, the most likely explanation is that you have an identical twin. As you recall from lesson nine, identical because they used to be the same individual cell, or group of cells that split during early development. So they share the exact same genome. A fraternal twin is like a full sibling, so you'd be 50% similar. And to only have a mother, means that you must have been a virgin birth, which isn't really known to happen in mammals. So Matt, let's say an adopted individual was looking for a parent or sibling through a genome match. Now, would they be looking for somebody who they share 50% IBS with? actually no. Remember that an IBS score for a parent-child relationship is already much higher, somewhere around 85%. Oh, yeah. The 50% number is referring to actually the shared segments, the shared SNV single nucleotide variance between a parent and a child. So, for example, we would be able to lay the chromosomes side by side and see that in a parent and a child, they share the SNVs all along the whole length of the chromosome. Whereas a sibling relationship, you would share regions of chromosomes that are shared SNV's, but not the whole length of the chromosome. That's really cool, but where can I actually line these two up? Well, you can actually do this on the 23andMe website. They have an ancestry tool that allows you to select individuals that you've shared your genome with, and you can lay the chromosomes side and side, and you can see exactly which segments you share with another individual. That's awesome. So we're not just looking at the percent we're related to somebody, but we're actually seeing what portions of our genetic information we share with someone. Exactly, that's exactly what it is. Now, the shared regions of descent, actually represent the percentage relation we are to each other. If you share 50% of these regions, you're 50% related. And we call this, identity by descent, or IBD. Okay, so I get this whole parent-child relations thing. But, what about beyond that? What if I share 25% IBD with someone? What does that mean? Well, let me ask you, which of the following family relationships do you think would share 25% relatedness with you? Go ahead and check all that apply. So you would be 25% related to a grandparent, an aunt or uncle, and a half sibling. Now what's the reason behind this? Well let's start with the grandparent. You're 50% related to each of your own parents. And that means each of your parents are 50% related to each of their parents. And 50% of 50% in this case would be 25%. So you're 25% related to a parent of your parent. Or your grandparent. Now, in the case of your aunt and uncle, there's something similar going on. The full sibling of your parent is related to them 50%, so this means your aunt are related to your parents 50%. So, if you're 50% related to your parent, and they're 50% related to your parent, that's 50% and 50%. You're 25%, again, in this case. But the half-sibling option is a little bit trickier. Of course, you share 50% with each of your parents, and your half-sibling also shares 50% with each of their parents, and you share that parent. The trick is, the same 50% that they give you is not the same 50% that they gave your half-sibling. And the reason is because of recombination during meiosis. We learned about this in lesson five. Remember that when meiosis happens and the sex cells are created, they must figure out how they're going to pass on half the genome. And every time they do this, they mix and match the chromosomes slightly differently. So that in the end, a half sibling shares 25% with you instead of a full 50%. You share a certain percentage of your genome with each different type of family member in your family tree. For example, we'll start with you. You are 100% related to you and to every other family member you're going to be less genetically related unless, of course, you have an identical twin. Now we've discussed a few of these relationships. And a few of the percentages that you would be with each individual family member. But I want you to see if you can fill in the rest of this family tree a percentage relationships. Using the options that you see here in the number bank. Now this could be a little bit tricky, so take the time to think about each person would relate back to you. Okay. I hope you're beginning to find some of these relationships pretty intuitive. Let's start over here with the close ones. You would be 50% related to your sister and 50% related to your mother. Remember we just got done talking a few exercises ago about how that 50% is not the same kind of 50%. You're also 25% related to your grandparents and your aunts and uncles. Of course this is because an individual parent is half related to which of their parents. So if you're 50% related to your parent, half of that would be 25%. Now you're 12.5% related to each of your great-grandparents. As well as your granduncles. The siblings of your grandparents. So I don't know if you're noticing a trend here. We've got this set of 50%. Alright? And then this set of 25%. And then this set of 12.5%. And now we also need to include first cousins in this. And then we move one more out. We would have great-great-grandparents and what not. And then we'd have our first cousin once removed at 6.25%. And our second cousin would be 3.125% roughly. Notice that at each extension we've essentially cut it in half from 50%. Half of that is 25%. Half of that is 12.5%. Half of that is 6.25%. Half of that is 3.125%. Now, because of recombination during myosis. These numbers are not exact. This is not exactly. We could put a little about sign, a little tilde, in front of each of these, to represent that you're going to have a, on average. A 25%, 12.5%, so forth and so on. About the only relationship that you can guarantee you're going to be exactly 50%. Is the father, and the mother. Everything else has recombination playing a role. And because that doesn't happen the same way every time. You can get a little more. A little less. From one relative or another. This is just an approximation. The percentage relationship you have with any given relative or one of your family members is what we call Identity by Descent or IBD. This is a number that's assigned to each family member that indicates the percentage of a genome that you would share with them based on your common ancesters. In the same way that we have an IBS score. We have an IBD score and they're both measured from a range of zero to 100%. But in the case of the IBS score, we generally go from a range of about 70% to 100%. Right? And that's sampling SNVs across the whole genome. But an IBD score can get down pretty close to zero. It's almost never completely 0%. Remember, we're all related through common ancestors at some point. So we share some relations, but it gets to a very low percentage at some point. And we can be all the way up to 100% obviously if you compare it to your own genome or if you have an identical twin. So, in a way, what we're looking for is to see where you're closest genetic relatives are to your furthest genetic relatives. You may remember from lesson 5 when I introduced the idea of the family rainbow right instead of the family tree. And what it allows us to do is sort of do these categories, this hierarchical relationships using this different colors. We can fill in each tier here, right, you 100% related to you. Your siblings and your parents, your 50% related to. Your half siblings, grandparents, aunts, uncles, you're 25%. And then it gets pretty complicated quickly, 12.5% related to your first cousins, grand uncles, great grandparents. And then 6.25% related to your first cousin once removed, great grand aunt, great-great grandparents. And all kinds of other shrubby like things coming off this tree, or our family rainbow. And we can keep going out. But what I like about the family rainbow is it allows us to organize our relatives in a way that allows us to easily visualize these tiers of genetic relatedness to each other. Now this is all well and good if we know our relationship with our family members already. But, how do we calculate this percentage. Which is equal to the IBD, the Identity by Descent score for unknown relations. Let's actually go talk to somebody about how this IBD score is determined. Hi, I'm Eric Durand. I'm a computational biologist here at 23andMe. I've been with the company for about two years now. And I'm mostly working on their ancestry products which range from a variety of different problems. before that, I was a post-doc at UC Berkeley for another two years and even before that I was a PhD student in France. We really want to know from a computational biologist is, how do you determine IBD, or identity by descent. Yeah, so first maybe we should define exactly what IBD, or identity by descent, is. So, IBD is something that refers to a chunk of continuous DNA and we say that two individuals share a chunk of DNA identical by descent if this chunk has been inherited through a common ancestor without recombination. It means that you inherited these segments from the common ancestor however far back it was in the past and it was never broken by a recombination event during meiosis. So if you want the simplest example of, of identity by descent maybe is between a parent and his child, where because of the way, if I refer you back to high school biology, because of the way chromosomes are inherited a child will inherit one chromosome exactly from each of his parents. And so a child is 50% identical by descent with his parent. And he is, in this case a common ancestor is the parent, himself. And the child is 50% IBD with, with the parent. And so it doesn't matter how big the segment is. The segment could be the whole length of the chromosome itself or anything shorter than that. Exactly. So if you only look one generation back in time the, the segment will cover a full chromosome in the child. So, full chromosome in the child will be identical by descent with his parent. If you go one more generation with, with a child is about 25% IBD with each of his four grandparents. Mm-hm. But there already, the 25% is only approximate and it can vary. You can be more IBD, you can share more IBD with one grandparent than with another, just because of the way recombination occurs. I see. So, there may be an average an average IBD but it doesn't have to be exact because, like you said, the recombination doesn't happen in the same place every time. Exactly. And also because of our ability to detect it, there is some error, some statistical error around the estimation of IBD, which in the end will lead to slightly different estimate. But it should be pretty close to 25%. And the further back you go in time and the more variation you have between those percentages and also the shorter the segments become and the harder they become to, to detect. So if you want to relate IBD and IBS for example, the main diff, difficulty with IBD I guess it's two-fold. It's first, we do not observe the recombination process. It would be great if we had that in some kind of black box or, or records that tells us where this is where recombination occurs but we, we don't see that. And even worse we don't even know the genealogy that relates to individuals even if they're kind of closely related. Their second cousin most people just ignore the tree that connects them. Mm-hm. So you don't know how far back in time they were connected and you don't where recombination occurs. so, the main problem is that you cannot observe IBD directly from the data, you can only observe a proxy of IBD, which is IBS, identity by state. You can definitely detect segments between individuals that are identical or roughly identical. And so this is how an IBD algorithm works. We start by scanning the chromosomes and finding long segments of IBS, and that gives us some kind of candidate pool of IBD segments. And then we apply various filters from these sets to extract the IBD segments. Mm-hm. And whose filters are varied, they depend on the length of the segments, meaning that it's pretty unlikely to have a very long IBS segment that was not generated by a common ancestor. We have, we also apply a filter for the frequency of the segment that was inherited. If the segment is very, very frequent in the population maybe it's not IB, it's not IBD, it's just IBS, and that arose to, to being fixed in the population because maybe of natural selection or other, other reasons. So frequency, quality of the segment, if it contains many mutations then it's unlikely to be IBD. We have a lot of [UNKNOWN] Yeah, it sounds like you really have to think a lot around how to make sure that it's a true identity by descent and not like you say, either coincidental or something else. so let me make sure I even understand this. the smaller the segment that, the smaller the segment that appears to be commonly shared the more likely it could be that it's just, you know, a match of identity by state, by chance with someone random in the population. That's correct. So maybe I should clarify the definition of IBD a little bit because under the definition I gave actually everyone is IBD everywhere, just because we all have a common ancestry if you go far enough back in time. So when we talk about IBD we usually restrict ourself to the recent past, say, I don't know, a few tens of generations, maybe a thousand years. And what, what's beyond this point we, we're, we just don't have the power to decide anymore if it's IBD or not. But if you go, if you look small enough, everyone's IBD everywhere. Instead of just calculating an IBS score percentage, IBD focuses on using this IBS, in a particular order on your chromosomes. It helps you determine which piece, which piece of the chromosome came from, from who in your family., For example, let's think about the chromosome pieces you inherited from your grandparents. Here we have your grandmother's chromosomes and your grandfather's chromosomes. Now, your mother has her own set of chromosomes. She got half from her mother and half from her father; half from your grandmother, half from your grandfather. Now when your mother's germ cells went through miosis to make eggs, Recombination allowed our chromosomes to mix and match the grandparental chromosomes, her parental chromosomes. So that when you inherited a set of chromosomes from your mother, you got this interesting mix of your grandparents. Now you could do the same thing for your father. And we could add up how much each grandparent contributed to each chromosome. And you'll see that it's roughly 25%, right? Here you have half of your chromosomes came from mum. And of those half, you'll notice that the blue segments represent about half of that. So total, 25% came from each grandparent. If you and a grandparent actually participate in a service like 23andMe. You can see exactly which segments of the chromosomes you share with the grandparent and the fact that you're roughly 25% related to each other. Although the individual sizes and chunks of the segments you may share with the grandparent can vary, roughly speaking would be about 25% related. Through IBD to a grandparent. On the 23andMe website, there's a full service called DNA relative finder. That actually generates an IBD, or Identity by Descent Score for you. And compares it to that of other individuals in the database. Attempting to actually make family connections. Most people you find on a site like this will be cousins. Many distant cousins, in fact. But you just might find a closer relative that you didn't even know you had. There's an added procaution on the 23andme site that asks, are you sure you want to opt in to see these close relatives? Can you think of a reason that you might not want to participate in finding close relatives? Go ahead and think of a response and put it in the text box here. And consider checking out the forums to see what your classmates think. There're many reasons why someone my not participate in a service like this. For example, maybe you're not ready to find out that perhaps your dad is in fact not your dad. Now if that information would be something that's too much to handle for you, then you might decide to opt out. But if curiosity or an adventurous spirit are what drives you, then you'll likely click ahead and see what happens. A recent article published in the online magazine Slate, brought to light the unexpected possibilities when you participate in services like 23andMe. The story was about a woman named Jackie and her brother Alex who participated in 23andMe in the spring of 2012. Jackie and Alex opted in to the relative finder program that 23andMe offers. The result would turn out to shock them. 23andMe listed Alex, Jackie's brother as Jackie's uncle because they shared 25% IBD. Now Jackie and Alex had spent their whole lives together growing up. And and Jackie knew Alex couldn't be her uncle. Or could he? Choosing from this list of possible family member options, I want you to tell me which of the following relationships could even share 25% relatedness or IBD with Jackie. Remember to check any and all options that you think apply. There are only three possible relationships that Jackie could have 25% relatedness, or IBD, with in this particular list. And that's a half brother, an uncle, and a grandfather. If you had trouble with this question, look back at the last couple of exercises and see if you really understand how IBD works, and relatedness among family members. The discovery that Jackie and Alex were only 25% related completely changed their relationship. Instead of being full siblings, they're 50% related. Meaning they share 50% identity by descent. They were only 25% related. Now this means that Alex would have to be her grandparent, her aunt or uncle, or possibly her half sibling. Now in this case it only made sense that Alex was Jackie's half-sibling. This means they shared a mother and not a father. The discovery that Jackie made was that the father who raised her was not in fact her biological father. Joanna there is a study that shows one in 60 dads end up raising a child that doesn't belong to him. So non paternity is obviously an, an issue of fairly high prevalence in United States in general and possibly the world in, in general. How does 23andMe deal with issues of non paternity? So this is certainly a big issue for 23andMe Because it's one of the most high impact results that someone who signed up for 20, for 23andMe can get. and before people sign up it's very important that they consider the possibility of making a discovery about biological relationships in their family that they didn't previously know about. And so. And that's why, when we launched the service from the very beginning, we in our terms of service we said, be a, a, a, you should be aware that you may learn things about yourself that, that, you find uncomfortable, that are disturbing. Including that your biological father, is not your biological father. The person that you know to be your father is not your biological father. So we were very explicit from the very beginning that this is a possibility. so that, The people are aware that that is something that can come out of DNA analyses. And so, are people. Do you, do you find many people not aware that the personal genetic services offered at 23? I mean, is essentially, in a way, can be like a paternity test. Well, many, organizations that do official paternity testing are doing it in a way that, the evidence will hold up in court. Mm-hmm. So it's a bit, a bit of a different process. So, for 23andMe customers, it's more like something they just discover. right when they're exploring their data. And the main way that people discover an opportunity is if they find that their genetic relationship to another family member is not what they had anticipated. That that they are instead of being a full sibling with someone they think is their sibling, they're a half sibling, because they have different fathers. So that's not an unusual. And, One, resource that we provide, is, we provide a forum, a discussion forum. where many of our customers, put out their, questions to other members of the 23andMe community. And that's where we've seen evidence of, people discovering non-paternity. And very often they have questions like how do I check to find out whether this is true or not? How do I handle conversations with other members of my family? And other members of the 23andMe community often come forward with advice on, you know, who else should be tested in the family. How do, you know, approach. other family members and I've seen people reporting cases where they've said, I'm not going to tell my dad that I've discovered this because he's been my dad all my life and and there's no need for us to change that Sure I, I imagine. And so people make these big personal decisions once they get this, this information. I can't imagine what it would be like to find out that your relative isn't actually as closely related as you once thought. I thought so too, until I actually participated in 23andMe myself. Wait, did you find a relative? Amazingly, I discovered that I have a half sister living all the way across the country from me. Seriously? Yeah. And she had been searching for her biological faimly for a long time. And when we both participated in 23andMe, That's how we discovered that we shared a father. That's amazing. You're a real-life example of this actually working. It's really cool to know that people can find their relatives even when they're not necessarily looking. You weren't, right? It's true. And I think it's time that we actually went to check in on our friend Sterling and see how he's doing on his biological family search. So when I got to the ancestry portion, I sort of wanted to start with, you know, where I was, my deep ancestory history, where I originated from. And it showed that I was around, not surprisingly, 20% from the British Islands and then the rest were from some unidentified European countries, but about 1 percent was from Sardinia, a little island off of Italy, which I find really fascinating. Well I want to know, when you got the results back, when 23 and me, I think they send you an email saying the results are ready, what were you feeling as you, when you got the results, rather the notification. what, what were you actually feeling in the process? I was feeling very overwhelmed because I knew that there was a potential for me to find out from the relative finder section, you know, my biological parents, and, or biological siblings, or biological aunts, or any relatives and information that I never had Because as you know, my adoption was closed, and they didn't release any of that information, and I felt always that I had reached a dead end, but this was a potential It could potentially further my, finding my, my biological birth parent. So I was very anxious very overwhelmed, very nervous, like clicking through everything. I even tried to like, go through all the other parts of 23andMe before I got to that just so I could sort of, you know, calm myself down. and then I clicked on the relative finder. Okay, so you opted into the relative finder, and you, you, you clicked on it. what did you see? Well, I saw a whole host of third to fourth cousins. quite a few from both England and Eastern North Carolina, which was, which was where I was born and raised. the closest though, I did find one second cousin. It didn't come up at first, after about a week, a week of having the original results. evidently, this person opted it in. Or 23 made was able to match her DNA a little bit better, and this person showed up. And it basically said that they were male and that they were from North Carolina and they shared about 0.97% of the DNA that I had. And then in the advanced tools section of 23andMe you can look at your actual chromosome pattern and see what bands of chromosomes match, and there were quite a few bands which lead me to believe that, you know, we had somewhat close, you know, DNA lineage. Wow. So, did you, did you reach out to this person? I did. I was sort of debating whether I would, you know, contact them. Sort of open up the can of worms or the pandora's box. Sort of get this new person involved in my life. And I reached out and basically, I said my name, age, where I was from, and that I was adopted and that I would love to know more about their background, and after about three days, an email was sent to me for this person, who gave me His name, how old he was and that he was from eastern North Carolina. And he gave me a bunch of surnames, hypothesizing his four grandparent's last names, which is a very common name in the community I was born and raised in. So I mean, it sounds like you connected with somebody who is, I mean, who the surnames, the family names you're familiar with. I know. It was, it felt like a bit of a soap opera that I was sort of, like becoming apart of, I called my adopted real parents, I called them and you know. I told them I'm participating in this course, as well as participating in 23and me and. They were not hesitant, they were okay with it and when I told them a list of names my mother pulled out all the phone books from Eastern North Carolina because she collects those evidently and was trying, like, this certain name that could be in the county where she knew that three other names were in. And she was calling my aunt, to see if she knew this person, and so it's just started this sort of domino thing where everybody's trying to be Nancy Drew or the Hardy Boys to try to figure out Who this cousin is. I'm still debating about, you know, where to take this, how, how, involved I should get with this person. you know, I, I don't know how receptive this person will be. And it's a second cousin which, you know, isn't an aunt or an uncle. This, you know? It's still a little far out. And so for me to say I'm adopted. Do you know anybody that you may be related to, who had a child put up for adoption? The likelihood of that is still low, however, I am hopeful that, you know, maybe, maybe they do know. I, I'm still debating about how to pursue this. So overall, how would you describe your emotions? Excited, nervous, happy, sad? My emotions about this process are varied. I'm excited and happy for the most part, and hopeful. I think those describe how I'm feeling about this right now. Would you recommend this for other people who are adopted and are interested? Do you think that it has the ability to Fill gaps in their knowlege or, do you think that it's a positive experience that you recommend to other people? I think it depends on the person. I think that, it depends on where the person is an how, an their identity as being, adopted. You know, are they, if they're interested and curious, I think this is a perfectly legitimate ada, avenue to pursue. I think that everyone who does pursue this as an avenue for trying to find biological relatives, should enter into it with a mindset that, they may not find anything. or they might find very distant cousin. Because this is all dependent on other people [COUGH] opting to send in their DNA to the company. With that said, I think that as, you know, genetics is coming to the forefront of our everyday lives and our health, more and more people are going to opt to send their DNA in to be sequenced and to be analyzed and to be compared with other individuals. So, I think that this is a very hopeful enterprise for adopted individuals. 23andMe is not the only service out there that offers ancestry testing. There are other companies like ancestry.com which also have very large databases for comparison. But either way, finding long lost relatives can really be tricky business, and you might want some more expert help. At least more than you can find on a company's website. So I think it's time we actually met CC Moore, a genetic genealogist who runs the popular blog, Your Genetic Genealogist. Finding long lost relatives can be really tricky, especially if you don't have a good place to start. But it's a lot easier if you have the help from someone like a genetic genealogist. And today we're lucky enough to be joined remotely with CeCe Moore, a genetic genealogist. Hi CeCe. Hi Matt, how are you? I'm doing pretty good. you know we're pretty excited to be learning all about this ancestry and human evolution and we're really curious at this point, you know, what is it that a Genetic Genealogist does? A Genetic Genealogist uses DNA testing in conjunction with traditional genealogy research in order to learn more about our roots. How far out do you go in a family structure as a Genetic Genealogist? Are you interested in, you know, up to grandparents and maybe second cousins, or do you, do you, do you build out farther than that? Do you connect whole families? Kind of just give us some idea of how far out you go. Well, we're interested in our family trees as far back as we can go. So with Y-DNA testing, which has been used in genetic genealogy much longer than autosomal DNA tests like 23 and Me. We're looking way back, we could be looking back into the 1400's even, because as you know, the Y chromosome changes very slowly therefore a father and son will probably have an identical Y chromosome, and maybe a grandparent and a great grandparent, a second great grandfather on that direct paternal line. So we've used these surname studies to go many, many generations back, centuries back. With Autosomal DNA we're not looking quite so far back, because of the recombination. However, when we first started using Autosomal DNA for genetic genealogy, we were told that it was only going to work maybe five generations, six generations back. And especially with our adoption DNA research, we have proven that it works much further back. We're able to identify ancestral couples a couple centuries ago, actually in these trees. And the way we do that is for instance, if an adoptee knows nothing about their biological heritage we would take all of their family trees of their DNA matches so, everyone who's willing to share at 23 and Me or family tree DNA, of ancestry DNA. We would start comparing those trees looking for commonalities and intersections among their matches trees, since they don't know anything about their family tree, and if we see a certain ancestry tree couple over and over and over and over, we can be pretty sure that, that's probably one of their ancestors as well. And if not their ancestor, certainly in an ancestral line, one of their branches of their family tree would have that ancestral line in it. And we've used couples very far back, like late 1600's, 1700's and been able to build down to the present time. That takes a lot of work, believe me, and we wouldn't just do it with one couple. We would do it with various couples, build their descendants down to the present and try to see where there's intersections between the descendants from those ancestral couples and if we can do that, which we sometimes can, we can sometimes solve these adoption search cases without a close relative match. If we get second cousin or closer, we can almost always solve it. if we're only working with third cousins, fourth cousins, fifth cousins, and more distant, it takes a lot more work, but it has been done. Great, CeCe, it's been a pleasure chatting with you. I hope you'll join us again, in maybe the discussion forums for our course. That would be great, I'd love to. Our genetic similarities can do more than just connect individuals. The broader scope of ancestry is about populations and evolution. For example, I know that I was born in United States, but if I trace my relatives back several generations, I would find that I have a strong connection to Northern Europe. In fact, when I look at my 23andMe ancestry report, I find that I'm 98% European. I can zoom in here. And I can see what percentage of Northern Europe I am, and then it maps mainly to the British and Irish isles. We can also look at the same information in Chromosome View. And what I notice is that even though me and my genes currently reside in the United States. Apparently, my genes have traveled over space and time all the way from Northern Europe, look how much of my genome is from Northern Europe. And specifically regions from Britain and Ireland. A much smaller percent of my genome we can see is from Sub Saharan African and a much even smaller region, a teeny, tiny region right. Is from South Asia. When we think about genes and alleles moving over time in a geographic space, we get a new perspective on our past. And it can also be a lot more meaningful when you have somebody who doesn't have quite the homogenous genetic background that I have. Here we're looking at an example from someone named Roy King. And we can see they have an amazing history, 51% from Sub-Saharan Africa 43.3% European, about 1.8% East Asian and Native American, and 0.2% South Asian. Wherever this individual is currently living, their genes are truly from all over the world. A key aspect to connecting your genome into populations all over the world, often includes understanding allelic distribution. Remember, unlike a disease that spreads laterally from person to person, alleles are spread across generations from parents to offspring to offspring to offspring. Of course this is an inherently slower process and it changes depending on reproductive habits of various populations. We learned a bit about this in lesson six, when we discussed natural selection and genetic drift playing a role. Take this map for the allele of lactase persistance. Now, it may be a little hard to see here but we have an outline of Africa, Europe, Asia, Oceania and some of the Pacific islands. We also have an inset here of Central America and South America. Now each circle represents a snapshot currently of the prevalence of the T allele or the C allele. Remember the T allele correlates with lactase persistence. And the C allele correlates with lactase non persistence. And you can see just looking at this map each circle from each spot represents the prevalence of that allele in that region, in that given population. So although allelic frequencies and distributions can change over time, we can get individual snapshots at any given moment. And at this particular moment you can look at this map and see the regions where lactase persistence would be prevalent based on the prevalence of the T allele. And where lactase non-persistence, would be prevalent based on the prevalence of the C allele or the darkened region of the circle. Now selection pressures in milk drinking populations. Really only, maybe 5,000 years ago, have resulted in the rapid spread of the C allele throughout the world. The T allele. So if I tell you that I am lactase persistant, which regions of the world would you assume that I do not share ancestry? Now there are multiple answers to this question, so make sure you check any and all that apply. And if you're absolutely terrible with geography, I've actually labelled the different regions or answers here in the map for you. All right, based on the map you see here, anyone who's lactase persistent. If I tell you I'm lactase persistent, you would expect me to not share ancestry, or genetic information, from Africa, East Asia, or the Central and South Americas. Now of course this is only one possible allele that relates to lactase persistence. And to examine my long-term ancestry, we really need to look at far more than just one SNV. Not only can we use our SNVs to connect ourselves and our families to populations all over the world, but we can even connect to one of our extinct relatives. Homo Sapiens Sapiens us, to Homo Sapiens Neaderthalensis. This is a close but extinct species. Neanderthals evolved outside of Africa, and existed along a geographic range that covered Europe through parts of the middle east and central Asia, and using nothing more than a DNA sample from Neandertal bones over 30,000 years old. A first draft of the Neandertal genome project was published in May 2010. Since this report has been published, new research has suggested that Neanderthals and humans actually interbred with each other in Mesopotamia. A region in the Middle East about 50 to 100,000 years ago. New research indicates that Neandertal chromosome regions were identified in European and Asian genomes, but not in African genomes, which was expected based on the geographies of Neandertal fossils. Amazingly. Looking at the SNVs shared between humans and neanderthals, we can estimate roughly what percentage of your genome might be carrying genetic information that was once part of the neanderthal genome. So even though neanderthals are now extinct, they left relics of themselves in our own genomes through possible interbreeding. And on the 23andMe website, they actually have an ancestry tool to discover what percentage of your genome has neanderthal variation. So, here I'm showing you mine. I'm about 2.7% neanderthal. I'm in the 56th percentile, and they even have a little comparison here for you to see, essentially, how modern humans compare to neanderthals. Now it's important to remember, this is kind of speculative and it's an estimation based on the current data. And as new data comes in, these values may be reassessed. And we may change how we think about the human in the neanderthal relationship. So if you were looking at an individual with little or no suspected Neandertal SNV sharing, then where would you expect their heritage to most likely be from? Of the following locations, pick one. Because Neanderthals lived outside of Africa, and we have fossils of them living in Europe, Middle East, and Asia, we would not expect to see any Neanderthal sequences in genomes that show their main heritage in Africa. And we can even see here, my Neanderthal ancestry is about 2.7% And I have a European background. But if we go to our example that we've talked about a bit more, Roy King, who has amazing chromosomes from all over the world, he shares about 50% genetic ancestry from Africa. And you can see his Neanderthal percentage is much lower, just as we'd expect form someone with a significant African heritage. Sophisticated analysis of genomic DNA can provide insight into individual's ancestry. But most nuclear DNA undergoes a recombination over successive generations. And therefore patterns of ancestry decay more quickly in these regions. To look back into our deeper past, we need to look at DNA sequence information that's directly inherited and not involved in meiotic recombination. In this diagram here of all the human chromosomes, I want you to tell me which two chromosomes do not experience significant recombination over many generations. There's a checkbox associated with each chromosome 1 through 22, the X to Y and mitochondrial chromosome. I want you to pick the two that don't experience significant recombination over many generations. Okay, only the Y on the mitochondrial chromosomes don't undergo significant recombination of over many generations. Obviously you know that chromosomes 1 through 22 do the autosomes. And even the X chromosome does. Remember when you have two X's in an individual, plenty of crossing over goes on between those X's. In the X and Y combination, they largely don't have a lot of recombination. There are a couple of regions that can, but very few. So over many generations, the Y chromosome is left largely intact, whereas the X has plenty recombination that goes on when it finds itself in combination with another X. And of course the mitochondrial chromosome doesn't undergo recombination at all. In lesson 7 we learned that the Y in mitochondrial chromosomes can be used to trace both the maternal and paternal lines. But lets do a quick recap to learn why the Y can trace the paternal side and the mitochondria can trace the maternal side. All right, so lets set up a little scenario here, lets imagine that I have biological children. Congratulations. Thank you, and I pass down my x chromosome, what sex will the child be? Be a female, because the mother has two Xs so she can only pass down the X. And you passed down an X, and so you have a child with two Xs. Baby girl. Exactly. Now, what happens if I pass down my Y chromosome? Well, the mother again only passes down the X and you gave a Y, and so an XY equals a baby boy. So you'd have a male child. Exactly, and we can use this Y chromosome to trace back father, to father, to father And that's how we trace the paternal line. And the mitochondria are only passed down by the mother. So they trace your maternal line. Precisely. This means that if you're a male, you can actually submit a DNA sample. And you'll get information about your maternal and paternal lines because you have both mitochondria and a Y chromosome. But if you're a female you only have mitochondria. So you can't actually get your paternal information just from your own DNA sample. You're going to have to use someone else in your family. I want you to tell me, Which of the following relatives would you not want to use if you're a female and you want to get information about your paternal lineage? I can basically use any male on my father's side, because they would share the same Y chromosome. So I can use my biological brother. But I couldn't use my maternal half-brother or my maternal uncle, or my maternal grandfather, because they don't share the same Y chromosome as my father. Exactly. So Trulin you mentioned that you have a European ancestry background which didn't surprise you too much, but I really liked to know about your paternal lines. So from your Y chromosome, do you mind logging in and showing us what it looks like? No, not at all. Show us what to navigate to get to this information. so basically you go to My Results and then you go to, under Ancestry Overview you go to Paternal Line. So what does it say? What are you? I am R1b1b2a2a 2f2. That is a mouthful. It is. Which is a subgroup of R1b1b2. And so, where is this from? Where does this take us? it says that around 500 years ago, before the era of intercontinental travel, I was predominantly from the Southern European area. And it looks like there are some spots other places too, like maybe even less so like the Middle East and some. Yeah. Western parts of Asia. Right. this is, is this what you expected? Did you expect anything? is this surprising? It's a little surprising. I mean, I thought like both my maternal and paternal line will be primarily all from the Northern European sections, but this is showing the Southern European section with a lot of spread out into other areas. So, what kinds of populations does it say this Y chromosome paternal and half a group per pattern. So, if you look at it here, it says that the populations are Irish, Basque, British and French. In 2003, a ground breaking genetics report that performed the y chromosome analysis, revealed that a significant proportion of men alive today, are actually direct line decendants from one man who lived about 1000 years ago. A whopping 16 million of men alive today actually share the same y chromosome. That's like 0.5% of the world population of men, or about one in 200 men. So how did a y chromosome spread so fast in only about 30 generations? Almost all the evidence points to a single man, Genghis Khan. About 10% of all men living within the borders of what was once the Mongul Empire, share the same y chromosome. And Genghis Khan was a warlord. An emperor of the Mongol Empire who gained land mainly thru battle and trade. Now the key to understanding how his y chromosome might have spread so fast is not so hidden in a quote that's attributed to him and the methods of his empire expansion. The greatest joy of a man is to defeat his enemies. To drive them before him and to take from them all they possess. To see they love in tears, to ride their horses and to hold their wives and daughters in his arms. And Genghis Khan was one of the most ruthless warriors who ever lived. And his y chromosome has been so successful in part, because of forcible rape and reproduction of the many women that he came in contact with. And now 0.5% of the world is the genetic evidence to prove it. So, know that we know a bit more about your Y Chromosome in your paternal line, would do you know about your Mitochondria, you maternal line? Well, if we look over here, back to MY RESULTS and then under ANCESTRY OVERVIEW. If you click on the MATERNAL LINE, I found out. That, I am J2a1a, a subgroup of J2. Wow! And where's this from? So this basically shows that it's from the Northwestern portion of Asia in the Middle East. Wow, this seems maybe a little surprising or, or not? it's very surprising, I mean [SOUND], like I've mentioned earlier I, hypothesized that both my maternal and paternal line were all from the North, Northern Europe. And it says here that the Haplogroup J originated about 45,000 years ago. On the Arabian Peninsula, just as modern humans were first expanding out of Africa. I mean that sounds, I mean this is some deep history. Some. Eh. Some deep Ancestry here. I never could imagine that I would find out information about my ancestors that, that far. Although the maternal and paternal lines trace different chromosomes, they both converge on the same notion of human evolution. All modern humans share a common ancestor from Africa. Now with early humans populated Africa and migrated up the coast, to the north east. An event of the Great Human Expansion resulted in the human exit to the Eurasian continents and the eventual colonization of Oceania and lastly the Americas. Over a period of 40 thousand years, humans migrated and colonized new areas. And at every step of the way, each founder population had significantly reduced genetic variation compared to the original larger populations from which they migrated. Now we talked about this effect in lesson six. So I want you to tell me, what is this founder effect caused by? I want you to pick one of the following answers. And remember, that what we're talking about here is the transition as humans go from Africa outwards, each time they colonize a region. It's only a subset of humans that colonize, so the gene pool is a little bit smaller for that given population. As they grow out, it expands again but then a new region is colonized. And so you have a smaller group. Which of the following do you think most appropriately applies to that? It's the bottleneck effect that whittles down a genome to minimal variability to start over in a small population. If you need a review of how this works, go back to lesson six and check out the bottleneck effect. In each step of the migratory path of the Great Human Expansion, humans founded a new area with a small population. Now this illustration here is showing you the great genetic diversity of the population here in Africa, and then as a subset of the population moved over here to the Middle East for the first time. And colonize the area. Notice the reduced number of people, but also the reduced genetic diversity. This randomly selected group had a much smaller gene pool. There's less allelic diversity than the bigger population over here from where it came from. Of course, over the generations, this allowed new alleles to gain a foothold. For example, the purple allele, in this case, is the most prevalent in this population. Whereas, over here, in the original population. Purple is prevalent, but maybe not to the same extent as it is in this new population. This specific bottleneck effect right here. Reduced genetic variation at each founding spot. It happened again as humans moved outward, and colonized new areas. Each time experiencing another bottle neck. This altered the allelic composition compared to the original population. Not only from the population that it recently came from, but the very original population out of Africa. This special kind of bottleneck event is referred to as a founder effect, because as you found a new area, a new founding population, as you colonize an area, you have reduced genetic variability. So a specific kind of bottleneck has occurred, that's referred to as the founder effect. After colonization of the whole world by about 14,000 years ago, stable populations grew larger, and were insulated from the original populations from whence they came. As a result, new traits emerged in various regions that stayed regionally restricted. We had sickle cell anemia in Africa as a protection against malaria. The lactase persistance allele in milk drinking populations of Europe and the Middle East began to grow. And various skin pigmentation alleles to accommodate humans in new climates with various penetrance of UV rays from the sun began to appear. From humble beginnings, humans expanded out of Africa into the rest of the world, creating a vast array of alleles in brand new population. It wasn't until about a few hundred years ago that travel began to bring us all back together again. Leading to mixing of the alleles between different populations at rates like we've never seen before. Therefore, the resulting genetic diversity has most likely had which of the following effects? I want you to check any and all that you think apply. The people are more homozygous for more genes, or people are more heterozygous for more genes? Are the population is better suited to survive natural selection, or the population is less suited to survive natural selection? Pick which answers you think are best. Bigger populations and more genetic diversity, indicates populations with more alleles for a given gene. This results in more heterozygosity, and populations being better suited to survive a selective pressure, like a disease or climate change. The net effect is genetic diversity. Which is an awesome thing for species survival. Sometimes it's hard to remember just how humble, our humble beginnings really were. We've used our genome cell to look at our close and distant relatives, to discover our countries and continents of origin even trace our maternal and paternal lines out of Africa. But all we really need to do, to see where we've come from, is look at the genomes of some of our closest living relatives. One of the best kept genetic secrets, is hiding in your chromosome two. Now humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes, and chimpanzees along with our other close primate relatives, like orangutans, and gorillas, have 24 pairs of chromosomes. Now humans and chimps are cousins. We share a common ancestor. Now we've also shared a common habitat in Africa, for a very long time. We look alike. We act alike. And new tools are showing us everyday how we even think alike but if we're so similar to chimpanzees, then why don't we have the same number of chromosomes? Here's an actual picture, from an actual experiment, where somebody used a probe, a label, to look in the genome of a human and a great ape. These are all the chromosomes and in green here they've painted the chromosomes that have sequences from our human chromosome two. And you can see this chromosome lit up in green here that's nice and long. And in the picture of the great ape, we see the same chromosome lit up in green, because it has the same sequences but notice that we have twice as many chromosomes, and they're smaller. If we were to actually look at the sequence of our chromosome two, it matches the sequence of two smaller chimp chromosomes. We can even line them up side by side and see which of the chimp chromosomes go in which order for our human chromosome two. Humans and chimps shared a common ancestor that lived about six to eight million years ago and this common ancestor likely had 24 pairs of chromosomes. Just like all the other great apes, orangutans, gorillas, chimps and then the population was separated by the Great Rift Valley in East Africa. Where the population on the west side remained in the forest, and evolved as chimps while the population on the east side was pushed into the Savannah, and experienced a chromosomal fusion during the evolution to human. Now you may find a profound connection to parents and siblings, and grandparents, and even great grandparents and cousins. But I hope you take a second, to just sit and think and share a deep appreciation for the connection that you have with your even more distant cousin, the chimpanzee. Alright, my favorite genetic friends, as you ponder your amazing connection with the chimpanzee and other great apes, it's time for you to fill out the concept map for lesson 11 and see what you learned. Use the word bank over here on the left and fill in the blanks that you see here. Good luck! Okay, let's fill out this concept map and see how you did. Let's start with the personal DNA sample, which can be used for genome sampling and comparison. We learned how to acquire this personal DNA sample in lesson seven, and what we're going to be doing is genome sampling and comparing individual SNVs. Now an IBS score or Identity By State is a score based on individual comparisons of individual SNVs. This indicates a genetic identity which we have greater than 70% of for all SNV matches in humans. Remember that you share at least 70% IBS with even the most distantly related human on the planet. This is a rough approximation. Now another kind of scoring involves the IBD, or identity by descent, which scores based on segments of chromosomes sharing individual SNVs. And this indicates genetic relatedness, which can reduce to about 1% for third cousins and beyond. Now altogether, the SNVs that we measure are located on the Y chromosome, which can be used to trace the paternal lineage. The mitochondrial chromosome, which is used to trace the maternal line. And autosomes and the X chromosome, which altogether, can be used to trace close and distant family relations. Putting all of this information together, we've learned that it indicates a human origin out of Africa. With each expansion experiencing genetic bottlenecks, specifically referred to as a founder effect. But we learned about these bottle necks more in lesson six. In this lesson we learned a lot of new information about human ancestry and evolution, so let's see if we can summarize these concepts into seven main points. Point one, genomic sampling from SNV or Single Nucleotide Variant regions of the genome is enough for us to trace ancestry and evolution. Point two, IBS or Identity By State scores use individual SNVs to determine genetic identity. Point three. IBD or Identity by Decent scores incorporate SNVs that are shared along the length or a segment of a chromosome to help us determine genetic relatedness. Not genetic identity. Point four. SNV comparisons across the genome are really useful to help us find close relatives. Or connect us with geographic populations. Or even trace our deep ancestry. Point five. The Y and mitochondrial chromosomes, our paternal and maternal lines, actually suggest a human evolution out of Africa. Point six. The great human expansion out of Africa experienced many genomic bottlenecks at every major point of colinization. And point seven. Human chromosome two is actually a fusion of two smaller chromosomes, shared by all great apes, particularly our closest living relatives, the chimpanzees. Well, this has been quite the family adventure, for some more than others. It's definitely been a bit exhausting. But I love learning how connected we all are and how many cousins I have. I'm going to have to print more holiday cards this year. [LAUGH] Well, I do find it amazing, the conceptually elegant process of mutation and natural selection that drives evolution. Creating all of perfections and imperfections that we share through common ancestry. I mean I love what we've learned so far, but where do we go from here? Well, I think it's time we turn to each other and try to apply this knowledge. In the next and final lesson, we're going to see how different professions use genetics to actually do their jobs. And then we're going to see the societal implications behind it. I'm ready to apply this knowledge. Let's do it. I want you to meet Henrietta Lacks, who's had a hand in changing medical biology and genetics for the better, even today. I want to share with you a short version of the story of Henrietta Lacks. But the longer version is documented in detail in Rebecca Skloot's 2010 book, The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. In 1951, Henrietta was unknowingly suffering from cervical cancer. After admission and treatment at the only hospital in the proximity that would admit black patients, Johns Hopkins Hospital. Two samples of Henrietta's cervix tissue were removed. Including a cancerous portion without her permission. Although Henrietta died on October 4th, 1951, due to her metastasized cancer, the cells from the tissue biopsy from her cervix continued to be grown in the lab to this day. Known as HeLa cells, He for Henrietta and La for Lacks. They were the first human cells that scientists could keep growing in the lab long enough to start actually doing real research. Most human cells would grow for a few days and then die, but HeLa cells kept growing and growing. As a result, the cells were commercialized and distributed all over the world. HeLa cells were used in the development of the Salk vaccine for Polio. HeLa cells have also been used for cancer research, AIDS research, gene mapping and countless other amazing medical advances. And in the spring of 2013, finally, the genome sequence of HeLa cells was published for the whole world to see. In return for the outrageous contributions of HeLa cells, despite the fact that they were taken and used without the consent of Henrietta herself. What compensation do you think's been provided to her family over the years since her death? Do you think that there's a multimillion dollar trust fund, that's been sent from labs and pharmaceutical companies all over the world that used HeLa cells for discoveries? Or do you think that 0.1% of all profits from biotech companies that use HeLa cells go to the family every year? Or is there $1 million that was paid in a lump sum just once to the family from the NIH? Or is it that $50,000 was paid to each family member, from the Johns Hopkins Hospital, where the cells were originally isolated? Or do you think that there's been no real financial compensation at all? You may or may not be surprised to learn that there's really been no real financial compensation at all, for Henrietta Lacks's family; however, the Moorehouse School of Medicine has donated money for Henrietta's and her daughter's grave stone. And two members of the family now sit on a committee at the NIH, who decides who gets access to the genome information and there's a promise to acknowledge the family in scientific papers published, using the information. This is a great example of a story that changed how we think about medical ethics. It's a fascinating story that you can read far more about online, but I highly recommend the book The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks by Rebecca Skloot. Go to the forums and chat with your classmates about what you think, the most moral outcome of this scenario should be. I'm Rachel Zuraw. I'm, live here in San Francisco. I'm an attorney specializing in intellectual properties, especially pharmaceutical and biotechnology, with a background in bio-ethics. You know, what are the ethical issues surrounding the use of specifically HeLa cells in the case of Henrietta's story. Mm-hm. But also the issue of using tissues from people without their consent in general. The researchers who took the cells from Henrietta's you've already covered. You know, they were attempting There were multiple attempts to find this immortal cell line. And, they were taking samples from anyone they could. She was there for therapeutic treatment, when they took the cell line. And, at the time that the cells were harvested from Henrietta Lacks. The Nuremberg trials of the Nazi physicians who participated in medical experiments, well quasi medical experiment in the concentration camps. The one of the first principles to come out of the Nuremberg trials is that voluntary consent of a human research subject is absolutely essential. And that's been embroidered on in United States law and ethical guidelines ever since. The informed consent, that any individual participating in research needs to be told beforehand. They need to have all of the information that they are able to understand so that they can agree or not. To participate in the research. It must be fully voluntary. It must be fully voluntary. Fully informed and fully voluntary. You can't make a voluntary choice to participate if you don't have all of the information. Informed consent in the United States in the early 1950s was still a, a good theory. You know, everyone thought that this, this sounded like a great idea. But then you have an uneducated patient in the hospital who doesn't understand what treatment she's receiving, is not advocating for herself, and in the, in the context of the time most physicians would not have paused to think I should explain to her why I'm taking this tissue sample. And let her know what I'm going to do with it. Today, and we can discuss some other examples, that sort of behavior still goes on. But it's a. Recognized by the medical establishment to be an actual intrusion and invasion of the patient's autonomy, of the human research subject's autonomy. Right, now obviously things have changed since then and Incrementally. [LAUGH] Okay, incrementally then. It's leaps and bounds, maybe not as much as we would've liked. [LAUGH] Well, I want you to speak to that for a second then. Did the Henrietta Lacks' story change anything, if not at the time, eventually? And, if not that, were there other cases that, you know, had a bigger impact on how we look at informed consent? Well, the Henrietta Lacks' story is, you know, wasn't known for more than 40 years, so when the Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks was released and Rebecca Skloot started publicizing this story, then, I think, the story has now become part of a really interesting movement towards control over personal genetic information. Which, I think we're really just seeing the beginnings of. Because legally, there was never a recognized right of ownership or control of your, well, in the past, tissues, blood sample et cetera, before genetic information could be extracted and used from those samples. Mm hmm But now, you know, Henrietta Lacks, you mentioned that her descendants Are now sitting on a committee to authorize the use of the genetic information from the Hela cells. Likewise there is a really interesting decision in 2010, regarding a small Indian tribe that lives in the Grand Canyon, who had given blood samples to a University of Arizona researcher for, to be used in diabetes and schizophrenia research. one of the members of the tribe found out several years after these blood samples were donated that they were being used for purposes that the tribe members had not consented to. The university of Arizona, of course, argued that this was perfectly acceptable, they had the samples, they had no right of ownership to the samples. However, the ultimate outcome of this case, is the, the tribe was able to dictate that they would not authorize their blood samples to be used for anything other than the original intended purpose. And actually, all of the samples that they donated were destroyed. Mm-hm. So I mean, these are just a couple of isolated examples. Case by case situations. Not really setting the precedent for how we're going to be managing genetic information that are, that is in the hands of researchers. But, it's indicative of an interesting movement towards people becoming aware of and taking measures to control the use of their genetic information. Medical and research ethics have changed a lot since the time of Henrietta Lacks. In part because of her story and other stories of research misconduct. And there have been events that have happened all over the world not just in the United States, that have challenged our laws and our morals. And the question is what are the new frontiers of genetic technology today that challenge our morals and ethics. What are the things, 100 years from now that we're going to look back on and be aghast that we ever did or participated in? Well one of the things, that's really the forefront of people's mind is genetic discrimination. How much are you concerned about how other people view the information that you might find out? Is this information you're comfortable sharing with anybody only your family, only yourself? I'm extremely concerned about insurance companies getting a hold of this information. And that, that preexisting condition aspect. because I really, really need my insurance company. Currently and in the future. So you're most concerned that they would essentially not they wouldn't carry you any more for. Right. And especially if there were a job change. And, and we're, we're starting with a new insurance company. Now, you know, supposedly Obamacare kind of does away with that, but, what happens when Obama goes away? [LAUGH] Any other thoughts specifically about insurance companies from anybody? I just think there's, like she's saying, there's a lot of potential for some, for people to take this information and exploit, exploit people with certain traits. Or certain thing, with certain, yeah, with certain traits or with people who are confirmed with certain conditions. So I think, yeah. You're the one who would be a potential employer. You know if they had the information that we could be out on medical leave a lot for surgeries, for our children surgeries. I think one thing that is also different about me than you all is that there are five of us in our family with Achondroplasia, so insurance companies are a really big deal in our house. The thought of losing that and, and, or my husband losing a potentially a job offer, if the employer said to himself or herself, hm, this is going to be a very expensive employee. Our rates are going to go up, and he's going to be out of work a lot dealing with either his surgery or one of his four family members. we better not touch this one. What is the biggest worry that people normally cite and say, this is scary. We need to do something about this. This is a moral imperative. What is, what is behind that? Aside from the movie Gattaca, which I think is behind a lot of it. It's a very scary movie. It is. I don't know if you've seen it lately. GINA was conceived of and passed because people, people are very concerned that opportunities will be forestalled, based on a possibility, of some genetic issue that could befall them later on in life. That they're being you know, pre-judged pre-penalized. Based on something that might not happen. So GINA, or the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act. Mm-hm. Was passed in 1995 and what did it do? What? GINA was actually signed into law in 2008 it was a very long process. So it, the fight to create GINA first began in 1995. You know, bunch of the bills that eventually became GINA started circulating through the government back in 95 and probably being talked of even earlier. GINA's general goal is to prevent discrimination by employers with 15 or more employees or by insurers. Based on an individual's genetic information, or family medical history. So they included family medical history, in part. Because, you know? Not everyone has had their genomes sequenced. But the idea is. There are a lot of. This breaks down into a lot of different provisions, of course, a lot of different individual granular protections that an insurer cannot raise premiums based on the fact that, say, my aunt had breast cancer. I may or may not carry one of the BRCA gene variants that would increase my likely risk of receiving breast cancer. I cannot be charged under GINA a higher premium for that. Likewise, your insurer or your employer cannot require that you undergo any type of genetic testing to asses your risk for developing any condition. Your, it permits of course in a health care provider to recommend genetic testing for various purposes, but even then an insurer or an employer can only collect the bare minimum of information that they need to have for coverage decisions, basically they cannot collect and store Additional information regarding your genetic makeup, predispositions. Do you feel the concern about genetic discrimination is valid? Absolutely, I mean, you can all too easily imagine an employer You know saying, you know, let's not say breast cancer, let's say someone has a you know they've had their genome they've had their genome coded, and they show a likelihood. It shows that you know they will almost certainly develop Huntington's, say and an employer who wants to make a long term investment in an employee, if they have access to that information, they're allowed to make decisions based on it. Might say, you know we'd really rather have someone who will have a longer working life with us. Likewise an insurer. I mean, insurers make their money. Based on having the maximum number of basically healthy people, paying into the insurance pool. Which then Right. Goes to pay for Sure. The less healthy people. it is in the insurer's best interest to keep as many people who are going to develop serious conditions out of that pool as possible. Mm-hm. So, yeah. I think that's a completely rational concern that people have that led to GINA. I think it's one of the few occasions when, as you said, they've sort of, got out ahead of the possibility of experiencing this type of discrimination. In lesson 9, we learn that a mutation of the BRCA1 or 2 gene can significantly increase your risk for breast cancer. Until recently, a company called Myriad Genetics held patents for three of the most prevalent mutations in the BRCA1 and 2 genes. Allowing them to dominate the gene diagnostic test market. Actually, charging thousands of dollars for an individual test. However, in June of 2013, the United States Supreme Court ruled against them. Saying that you can't patent a naturally occurring DNA sequence. Now this will open up the market for many other companies to start doing this test. Now the Supreme Court decision was unanimous. Although they still allow you to patent synthetic DNA sequence. But what we want to know from you is, do you agree with this decision? Do you think that companies like Myriad Genetics should be able to patent naturally occurring genes found in individual humans? Check yes or no, and then tell us why in the box. Carol, I'd, I'd start with you. do you have any personal opinion about gene patenting, or the idea of, you know, can a company own a gene, specifically you know, the bracket gene has been the subject of much debate? myriad genetics was just denied the right to patent the BRCA mutation, and I agree with that completely. Why is that? Well, I don't, I don't, I think this information should be available, and you don't patent the gene. A treatment, or medicine, for a period of time, but the gene is, is something that we have in our body. You know it's part of human nature, it's our human, in your human, it's part of your makeup. And I don't think that they should be able to patent a gene. All living things have genes. Trees. Mm-hm. Have cells with DNA in them. Cats, dogs, bacteria, what do you think about patenting those genes. Do you feel similarly, or, differently. I mean, it would, I think, the way that the decision went, so that you can't patent something that's already naturally occurring, I think that's already, that's been in the law for a long time. I think when you get into the recombinate DNA technology and Bioengineering where you're changing the genetic code of something. That, is currently allowed to be patented and I think innovations like that should definitely, those are pure innovations that deserves patents that should be protected. [COUGH] Even if it's only one letter change? That one letter change, yeah, if that one letter change changes the essence or the function of, I mean, like I said, my wife's a yeast geneticist. So small changes make big differences, so if you can change something like that, then that's a novel. Sure. Then true sickle cell anemia, one small change. Mm-hm. BRCA mutation, and FGFR3 mutation that can have major effects. I saw Sterling nodding his head over there. You, you agree with that assessment? Yeah. I would just think, like, an analogy, like can you patent like a type of leaf, or you know, patent a part of your body. patent the liver. I mean, this is something that's sort of occurring within nature, already, and then to claim it, is a hard thing to buy into. So the current state of gene patenting, thanks to the decision on June 2013, I think it was June 13th 2013, on the Myriad case is that human genetic code is not patentable. However, code that is synthesized. From, like if you, I cannot say, I patent that mutation you have because I discovered it. However, if you synthesize that DNA, think it's called cDNA. Mm-hm. That is patentable. Because that is a product of human innovation. So a lot of the debate over the Myriad case and the patenting of genes has really been about the purpose of patents in the United States. And, you know, this whole history of intellectual protection in the United States which is super fun stuff that probably doesn't need to be done in depth in a genetics course. But the purpose of the patent code is to protect the fruits of human innovation. Yet if you have worked on something and you have created something, you are entitled to control it and profit off of that for a, you know, protected period of time which has changed, of course, throughout patent protection history. But you're entitled to exclusively profit off of that for a period of time as a reward for your labor in bringing this new thing into the world. So patenting of natural materials, has actually been. There's a pretty extensive case law. That this was not something that you could do. Because you can't just you know, discover a mold. Scoop it out and say, I patent this. I get to use this mold alone. A lot of people were arguing that genes, the discovery of a genetic mutation, took so much effort and took so much ingenuity to isolate and to interpret this information, that that made it patentable. And there actual you know, Myriad's patents were not the first to be issued. Mm-hm. Myriad isr eally just the worst behaved patenter of human genetic information. They didn't make any friends. Exactly. And even since the Supreme Court decision it seems that they're still going after people. I know that there are companies that You know we're trying to run with the supreme court decision. Mm-hmm. And Myriad is still suing them. Yes. Yeah there's plenty of cleanup work left to be done. [LAUGH] but yea, over the course of this litigation a lot of people were arguing. Instead of invalidating patents like this. Or instead of having this compulsory licensing system. Was another idea that is, it's, you know, common to further scientific innovation by licensing. Mm hmm. Your patent, licensing your discovery. And the whole problem with Myriad's holding of these patents that led to all these lawsuits is they didn't grant any licenses, which was putting a choke hold on research. And of course an individual's ability to access a diagnostic test to determine whether or not they had these mutations. Where do you see the place of bioethics in the future of genetics in personalized medicine? I actually think that bioethics and especially a knowledge of genetics is increasingly important. Because you know, bioethics as a concept originated. As an idea of how to protect participants in research and consumers of healthcare. People who don't have all of the training and the information held by the physicians and the researchers who are you know, bossing them around. Standing there in white coats looking scary and saying give me your blood, I'm going to go do great things with it. It's important in order to protect autonomy that people have. As we've talked about, informed consent. You need to have the information going into a study. But I don't think protecting informed consent is just about giving someone a form when they're coming into a study, and saying. This is exactly what we're going to do. This is what you're going to experience. Do you sign on the dotted line? Okay. It's about making sure that people have the tools to understand their participation in such an area, in such a venture, in the first place. And that's by ensuring that people are educated about genetics, about personalized medicine, about the possibilities that their future and their genetic code actually hold. What that actually means for them. The level of predeterminism or not, that this information actually applies. And, well, I'm perhaps a little bit biased in favor of the study of bioethics because I think it is super fun and interesting and really important. But. You know, science is advancing at a pretty breakneck pace. And you know, we won't always get out in front of it like with Gina. But someone needs to be paying attention and you know, you never want to say, stand in the way of any kind of scientific advancement. I don't think that's at all what the study of the intersection of ethics and science is about. Mm-hm. But insuring beneficial and responsible use I think is critical to respecting the people who make research possible. So my background, I came to bioethics as a philosophy major as an undergraduate. I, I began studying human rationality, mostly, and philosophical conceptions of understanding individuals as rational beings and what your ethical duty is to a rational being are. That led me into studying informed consent and medical ethics because I found it fascinating. I mean especially how you get informed consent. How you get any kind of consent from someone who isn't rational, was formerly rational, is never rational. Fun questions. Yeah seriously. and then that in turn led me actually to becoming a lawyer. Because I realized that law is the tool that you're actually going to use to make sure that people who cannot advocate for themselves are nonetheless protected. You know, the best advice I can give to learning bioethics is just be open to figuring out what the next weird issue is going to be. And learn all you can about it. [LAUGH] That's why bioethics is fun, right? It's sort of a, a mix between hard nose practicality and science fiction. You're paying attention to, what could go wrong and how do we stop that or you know, aspirational fiction. What, what's not great right now? How can we make it better? Rachel thank you so much for coming in. Thanks for bringing me in. Computational Biology is an emerging field that's going to be big. Now just like computer science and coding is becoming really important for all different professions nowadays. It's even more needed in biology and genetics. I mean it takes a lot of computation and analysis to sequence a whole genome. And, and the processing power it takes is immense. Not to mention other changes in the medical field, like digitizing of patient medical records, and a lot of other things. Now, if any of you out there are interested in computer science coding and biology. There's a whole field waiting for you. There's a lot of companies out there that are looking for good computational biologists. I am Eric Durand. I'm a computational biologist here at 23andMe. I've been with the company for about two years now. And I'm mostly working on their ancestry products which range from a variety of different problems. before that, I was a, a post doc at UC Berkeley for another two years. And even before that, I was a PHD student in France. Well, so, a computational biologist, I think, is always someone who's trying to develop or at least to implement computational methods to analyze biological data. So in, in my field, in genetics. Even in my field, there is a wide variety of different data and a wide variety of different applications. So, a computational biologist could be someone developing pipeline to analyze origin of sequences, for example. Just from the raw data, to the alignments, to culling the SNVs from the raw data. And just process the data so it's ready for statisticians for example, to try to further process it. Could be someone like me, who's, for me, a very bag, very big part of my job is machine learning. So it could be someone who is really interested in machine learning. And trying to extract sense from the data directly. it comes from the from the realization, I think, that amount of genetic data is huge and growing really fast. And even maybe more problematic is the complexity of the data. Like any single phenotype is going to be influenced by not any single but many, many phenotypes is going to be influenced by a lot of different genes. It's very, very hard to find exactly the structure in the data. So machine learning is one way to, to tackle the problem. I and I think it's a way that's proved successful already. So here at 23andMe, I think it's safe to say that all the computational biologists came from the computer side of things. They are of training either in computer science or in math or in statistics. And they learn biology later as fascinating application field for data scientists basically. And so as you know, biology and genetics grows, you think there will be a an opportunity for many more computational individuals who are interested to sort of learn genetics and biology and apply that. Yes. Definitely. I think. I honestly think that biology is the science of the 21st century, nothing less. And it will change everything for most people. It will revolutionize medicine being preventive or, or personalized. It will, Yeah, it will basically change the daily life of, of everyone I guess. And we need more people and I think many, many more jobs are going to be created around, around in the computation of biology. So I developed another features that 23andMe called ancestry composition which goal is to find the origin of, of segments. Not as precise as finding who you share it with but where does it come from. So it could come from some part of Europe. It could come from some part of East Asia. Or some part of Africa. so my undergrad was in applied math and computer science. And then I went on to do a PhD in Statistics. And because the way that was in France and because the way it works in France, I had to choose a field application for statistics. And that's, only then, that I began to think about genetics. Because my PI was very interested in population genetics, which is this field in genetics where we try to learn about human evolution. So natural selection, demography, ancestry, identity by descent. Then I became interested as well, and I developed statistical learning method to learn about the, the genetic structure of such populations. After my PhD, I decided to do a post doc here at UC Berkeley. Because I had a very good opportunity with someone very famous in the field of population genetics. And there I was lucky enough to work on the first draft of the neanderthal genome. So I actually had the first full neanderthal genome sitting on my hard-drive and I could just do my, my stuff with it, anything I wanted. That's awesome. And I contributed to develop methods that, that estimated amount of neanderthal DNA that modern humans have today. if there was somebody watching this interview right now and they're really intrigued about how biology and computer science and math, statistics work together in, in a particular job, what advice would you give them to, to study in school? What would you recommend that they do, and maybe where would you recommend that they seek you know, career advice or, or, or work Yeah. so as I said, I do believe there is needs for specialists or I do recommend they keep studying math and computer science and statistics a lot. But they still need to take some biology at the very least to figure what are the problems that we need to solve today in biology. And how to relate, you know it's not enough to get out of school and know a list of the ten fastest algorithms for each specific problem that you learn in school. You also need to be able to relate those great class of algorithms to different problems in biology. How you will need to adapt them, how sometimes you will have to realize that there's nothing that exists already. And you need to develop something that's not going to be optimal probably. But you need to do a first pass of the problem. So you do need to know enough biology at the very least to understand the problems. Otherwise, for example, for ancestry, if you don't have a very clear understanding of the recombination process, there is nothing you can do. You need, you need to understand exactly what probably stick model you can put in meiosis. How often it's going to break a chromosome, all these things. So you, you, you do need to know it enough biology to understand the problems. Definitely. So you need to take at least an intro to biology class or something at the very least. Imagine, you're a computational biologist who just got a job at 23andMe. Congratulations, and now you're working on their ancestry and relative finder features. Your job is to create algorithms to determine identity by descent or IBD scores. To see how related two people might be. Remember we learned about IBD in lesson 11. In writing your code you see an example that gives you pause. In one comparison you see two people who share short segments of five different chromosomes. All about the same size. But in a different comparison with two different people, you see a comparison that shows one long shared segment from just one chromosome. It's about twice the size of the segments from the other comparison. So as you continue to write your code, which of these scenarios should be ranked as more related? Which of them shows a closer relationship? The individuals with five shared short segments, or the individuals with the one shared longer segment. I want you to pick which answer you think is best, and then tell me why in the text box here. Most likely, the best answer for this, are the individuals that share five shorter segments. Now this was kind of a tough problem and you really could have gone with either answer, depending on how long, the long segment is between those shared individuals. For the single segment to be ranked higher than the five short ones it would have to roughly be about five times bigger than any of the short segments by themselves. Assuming that they're all about the same size. Identity by decent or IBD detection algorithms have a threshold from which they consider a segment to be long enough to be reported as Identity by Decent. So the single segment would have to be pretty big. Now, due to the fact that recombination occurs on every chromosome in each generation, it's unlikely, very unlikely that a long segment would be transmitted along one chromosome and nothing on the others. But, how unlikely this is depends on the size of the segment. Either way, if you were to see a difference or comparison like this, you definitely have to go back, examine your code and think about the genetics behind what's going on to best represent the outcome that should be true. Computational biologists are really smart people. A crucial aspect of advancing medical science is the use of the clinical trial. Now a clinical trial is a series of tests that's used to determine the safety and efficacy of any kind of medical intervention. Like a, a drug, a diagnostic test or a therapy protocol. You know, genetics, including personal genetics really has shaped the way that we design and carry out clinical trials. And designing clinical trials is a new and emerging field as medical genetics moves forward and expands. And you don't even need an advanced degree or a degree in genetics to do it. So I'm Sascha Ellers, and I'm the Director of Clinical Operations. I'm from San Francisco, California. All right. And what does a director of clinical operations do, exactly? So I work with physicians and researchers to run clinical trials. I take the ideas that the clinical staff, the, the physicians have with a protocol and I work to implement that protocol. So I will go out to key opinion leaders, which are most likely physicians try to recruit them to participate in the study. I will work with data that comes out of the study so data that's from the patients that enrol in the study. I do monitoring which is basically verifying that the data that's recorded for our study is accurate and matches what the data looks like in the patient's medical records. and then you know all of the, all of the work that it takes to oversee the study it's a regulated environment. So it's regulated by the FDA or, if, if, in some cases research isn't regulated by the FDA but it's always regulated by good clinical practice and international guidelines on how to take care of patients. So you have to actually be informed of a lot of different things to be able to carry this out. Yes. Now for those people who may be slightly unfamiliar with how clinical trial works, or even what one is, can you tell us just briefly the significance of a clinical trial? Sure. So, any time you want to test an intervention, be it a drug, a diagnostic test, or even just changes in behavior, you want to show that there's actually a difference, you want to run a clinical trial. Because that's going to give you the gold standard. to show you that there's a difference with your drug or intervention. So the, the clinical trial itself is a way to ask your question prospectively design your, your experiment in humans and then implement that study. So this is sort of like the, okay prove that it works kind of thing. Exactly. And this process you said itself is regulated by the government? By the FDA correct. By the FDA. and must you pass a clinical trial to carry out your test or your diagnostic or whatever you want to do, is that part of the requirement of ever selling your product? It, it, it depends. so to, to back up there're, there're three phases of clinical trial development for a drug. There's phase one where you're looking for your safety. So you gotta prove that you're not going to do undue harm to people with your drug. And then in phase two, you're further refining your safety and you're starting to look at efficacy. Mm-hm. And then phase three are your large efficacy trials where you're treating a lot of patients with the drug at that point. so that's kind of the basic methodology but then, within that context, yeah, there is, it is regulated by the FDA. They do have a say in what they're going to accept from the phase three trials as something they are willing to approve. Mm-hm. And so, a lot of effort goes into pu, putting together a study that's going to meet their requirements. Sounds like it takes a lot of time to do this. Yes. so it's sort of a big commitment from anybody interested. Big commitment for companies, a lot of resources go into these trials. In academic settings a lot of resources will go into these, these studies as well. A, a recent example that's been approved is a drug called Zelboraf. That looks at mutation in the melanoma cancer, called V600E. So it looks at this mutation and says if the patient is positive for this mutation, that if the cancer is positive for this mutation, this would be a good drug for the patient to try. And if they don't have the mutation, they're probably not going to respond to the drug at all. So this is a great example of using genetics in in a clinical study to select patients. But you can also use the genetic information to stratify patients if you want to compare patients with the marker to those without. So it would just be a marker that would be used to look at how you could break apart those two groups to look at who did better or, or not in that case. Right, and you said, so that's an example of something that sort of went through this process and has been approved? Yes. Part of the problem with, with clinical studies is that you're, you're confined to the population that you're testing them in. So sometimes we'll see a signal where we look at the entire data set. There'll be a signal in a subset of patients, but you don't really know why you've wasted a lot of money on a negative trial. One of the opportunities that genetics provides, is to help us get the right patient on the right trial so that it increases the likelihood that we're going to have a positive outcome for the trial. And decreases the risk to the patients, or subjects, of being exposed to treatments that aren't going to help them. So I think that that's one of the most exciting things about the future of, of personalized genetics. Mm-hmm. In looking at developing drugs and treatments. Tell us a bit more about your background. How did you get to be a director of clinical operations? What did you study in school? What did you do before you got here? Yeah, so I have a bachelor's degree in Biology. When I finished school, I didn't really know what I wanted to do. I felt really lucky that I found this this world of clinical studies so I, I, started out in the CRO, Contract Research Organization. So these are companies that serve pharma companies, by helping to run the clinical trials, this is outsourced. Mm-hmm. To that group, and so I I had my first job in, in a company like that and from there came into biotech and pharma and diagnostics. And I found it to just be a lot of fun. I like to solve problems, right? So it's a great place to apply that. So it sounds like you really get to in, in your job, you really get to sort of be exposed to a lot of ideas and subjects that deal with genetics. But you also really get the sort of, I guess I like the, the verb, wallow, in the, the ethics, too. And really have to be concerned about procedure, you have to pay attention to detail, you've got to sort of know technically what's going on. But you've also got to be able to remember where you are, and what you're doing with regards to okay, this is a human study, and these are all the things we have to go through. Yeah, exactly. in general, how would you describe, how difficult is this job, do you think, compared to other jobs, er? It's difficult, probably, in a different way than somebody who's actually crunching the data. We have to think through problems like sometimes we'll have a study that it's, it's well designed, it, it could yield great data. But we just can't find the right subjects that want to join the study, so then a lot of effort goes into recruitment planning for the study. I've never worked on two studies that have the same problems, they're always different. So and then, you know, it builds on it itself. So you learn, okay we gotta have recruitment plans in place before we start the study. We've, we've got to think through how we're going to ensure quality data before we start the study. All of these things that kind of become part of the methodology, but yeah, every study has its own issues and the landscape changes. Mm-hm. Early in my career I worked on a drug called Sutent. I've worked on a phase one study of Sutent in gastrointestinal stromal tumors. and so when I saw that it was approved, i thought that was really exciting, I also worked on a drug called Pertuzumab. Mm-hm. it's called Perjeta and it's approved for metastatic breast cancer, so that's been exciting. If you, if somebody's watching you right now and they're super excited and they're like wow that sounds like a really cool kind of job. Mm-hm. What advice would you give them to either learn more or [COUGH]. What advice would you give them to learn more, or to possibly become a Clinical Operations Director themselves? I guess that the main advice would be not to just focus on drug companies, to look across the board for other places that are running studies, and see if there are opportunities there. Would you recommend anybody who's interested to try to get work experience before school experience in this? I think work experience is the foot in the door that will help to land the job, yeah. And what kind of work experience exactly? so there're entry level positions to running clinical trials. They're, it's called a clinical trial associate. Okay. but also background in a, in a physician's practice that are, where they're running studies is another great way to get exposure to it. Well, thank you so much for joining us, and you know, wish you the best of luck continuing your clinical operations. Thank you. Imagine that you've just been hired as director of clinical operations at a brand new company in Silicon Valley. A promising new drug has been shown to be very effective at reducing the risk of prostate cancer in mice. But preclinical animal studies also showed that some mice had a mutation in a gene that caused adverse side effects. Now, the mice that didn't have this particular mutation, didn't have the side effects either. Now you're going to begin to design your clinical trial to test this in humans and you discover that this gene is conserved from mice to humans and that's like 90% identitcal. And about 3% of humans have the same mutation that caused the really adverse side effects in mice. So which of the following do you think would be the most ethical decision to design your clinical trial, and why? Would you include those humans with the adverse side effect mutation to have a more scientific conclusion? Or since you can identify them using their genetic information would you not include those individuals with the adverse side effect mutation so that. They don't have to suffer the consequences. I want you to pick one of these answers and tell me why in the box here. Now it's true, there really is no right or wrong answer to this question. This is a real life decision that you'd have to make as a director of clinical operations. Now after speaking with the director of clinical operations that we interviewed. She said that she would probably go with the first answer. And she said that the reason is because the information is incredibly valuable. And she could add an early safety review to the very beginning of the study so that as soon as they begin to notice anything that might be significant or severe, they could get the person off the drug. However, she also mentioned that you could pick the second answer and probably find a good justification for that too. Which one did you pick? Why don't you go to the forums and see what your class mates think too. As personal genetics become more widespread, the ability to interpret this data is very valuable. Now, coupled with family history, this information has the power to reveal your potential future, but also the future of any children you might have with a particular mate. Mapping out a family's pedigree is an essential part of what a genetic conuselor does to help a couple plan their future family. So, my name is Kelly Chen. I consider myself a Bay Area native. I grew up in Fremont, and I'm a genetic counselor. And technically, I guess, my title is perinatal genetic counselor, so I focus on patients who are pregnant or thinking about pregnancy. And as a genetic counselor, are there subdisciplines? Like, are, I mean, are there, like, genetic counselors who focus on, sort of, the non-perinatal aspect? Certainly. So, this profession's still pretty new. I think, in the beginning, there weren't that many specialties. It was either pediatrics, children and, and prenatal was the second, I think, as, as soon as pregnancy tests started. And since then, there are several different specialties. The big ones are pediatrics, prenatal, cancer has become the hot new thing. counselors who work in a laboratory, and then specialty counselors who work in certain disciplines like cardiology or neurology or. Nice. What kind of training was involved? So, once you figured out that's something you wanted what do you do to become a genetic counselor, officially? So, it's very specific. So, it's usually a two or three year master's program specifically in genetic counseling. So, all the courses are geared towards the science of genetics and counseling theory. And so right now, I just did this test. I think there are about 30 programs nationwide. So there are three in California and then in other states. And so you still have to apply. Take standard testing like GRE's. Mm-hm. If they're still around. And do some training, like volunteering, in a healthcare setting, so I volunteered at Planned Parenthood for a year. I see. Doing the pregnancy tests. Cool. And then applied. What are the various backgrounds? Do all genetic counselors have the same academic training, or, or do they have diverse academic training? So, yeah, So, counselors come from a wide variety of backgrounds. they do have in common that they have to have a master's degree, and the master's degree programs require an undergraduate, usually four year college, but, and some prerequisite science courses; Biology, Chemistry. but other than that, you can be any major. So, my classmate was a psychology major, I was a genetics major. Some people were completely not really seeing either of their specialties as long as they finish their courses. What do you think about the profession itself overall? Is it a profession that is growing in number, and how is it growing if it is? So, yeah. The profession itself definitely is growing in number. I don't have year by year, but I think in the very beginning, I think the first national society started in the late 70s, and then there were probably ten to 30 members, maybe. And now I think we're up to, past 2000 nationwide. in the state I'm organizing this conference coming up so I just did some stats. In this state, there's probably about 400 licensed genetic counselors. So just to give a prospective of, we're still a small specialty, but definitely growing. Is, I guess this is sort of more of the personal side, but do you like being a genetic counselor? Do you feel like you're helping people? What aspect of doing this job is probably the best and most fulfilling for you? I think it's a combination of things. Like, this job definitely, I really enjoy being a genetic counselor, it really fills my niche. That it combines my interest and my love of science, and specifically genetics and genetic conditions, with seeing patients, helping people in a healthcare setting. Mm-hm. So I've been thinking about some of these answers that, you know, the traditional role for healthcare professional is a doctor. But doctors have a lot of stress, a lot of schooling doing treatments and procedures. And I wasn't necessarily interested in that part. I was really more interested in communicating to patients, and feeling like I could help them just using my words. Mm-hm. Or just being there for them and listening to them. So I really feel that this profession has been a really good fit for, for, for me and my personality. So a lot of what I do is, I think of it as a consultation, but also just providing information. I see us as a link between physicians and patients, that traditionally doctors order tests that are fairly straightforward like a blood count, or a blood type or something like that. And they can easily tell a patient what that means in a sentence. With this genetic testing, it's much more complicated than that. it's not always a straightforward yes or no, and doctors don't have time to spend with patients explaining that. And so I see us as a bridge between that, being able to help patients decipher and interpret this information. And then also helping them making decisions based on those results. because a lot of decisions to be made, especially in pregnancy are not always medical decisions, there are person decisions about what patients want to do about information about their future offspring. so, so prenatal specifically is an interesting ethical realm because we're also dealing with pregnancy and, and termination. You do pedigrees, don't you? Yes we do, we always do pedigrees it's kind of our shorthand. Okay. For gathering medical information. Are you fast, are you good? How fast can you like draw a pedigree? I'm pretty, people my colleagues would say I'm too fast at a lot of things so I'm pretty fast at drawing pedigree. We have colleagues that don't have the template. That, they used to have a template, that you could trace a pedigree. And so I had colleagues who could flip out that template and do the rotational things. But most of us can draw freehand pretty well. But now there are programs that also draw pedigrees because mine are fairly basic. I take maybe three generations of pedigrees. So a patient's, their children and their parents. some pedigrees, like for cancer, where you're really trying to pinpoint all the individuals with cancer, those pedigrees can get huge, and then I think the counselors definitely need help with a program that can kind of line things up and sort things out. Have you ever had to look at a trait? Or, I don't know, I'm just curious. Have you ever looked at a trait where no one knows what the inheritance pattern is yet. Like, have you ever discovered a new inheritance pattern? [LAUGH] Like does that happen as a genetic counselor, you ever looking at traits that no one's ever described before? So that's kind of has two separate questions so that looking at a pedigree, sometimes we don't know the inheritance, like it doesn't fit a traditional dominant or it doesn't fit a traditional recessive. So that's kind of the fun part of our job where it's a rare occurrence of something happening. So it's not, I, I don't think we've like discovered a new inheritance but we've discovered New instances of a rare, rare instances of things that can happen with traditional inheritance patterns. So that's, that's one way, like, something happens on top of something else, and that's what gives that pattern. and then we can also be fooled when people are related to each other. Because then that throws things, because it could be a dominant trait, but if there's relatives that are related to each other, it could be recessive as well. And then your other question, just about, we certainly have conditions that nobody's described before. And we see it in prenatal, but we see more in pediatrics, where a child comes to us with a unique set of sympoms. And that's not been described. And so that, that's a cool part of a pediatric genetics, counseler or doctors job is they might actually identify a new syndrome. So I haven't personally been part of that, but my colleges actually have. And we know physicians who have discovered new conditions. Mm-hm. And have had them named after them. Wow. Yeah. That's crazy. That's pretty cool. There's somebody watching right now, who's really interested and wants to know about being a genetic counselor. What would you, do you have any particular good resource you'd tell them to go visit or do you have any special message that you would tell them about genetic counseling? So, yeah, I would highly recommend the profession if anyone's thinking about genetic counseling. It's a very good combination and medicine and health care, and interacting with patients. So we call that a clinical kind of job. If you like patients, and if you like the specific field of genetics, because that's pretty much what we're talking about. So if you don't like genetics, I wouldn't recommend this profession. [LAUGH] But if you want to work with people but still be in, tune with the science, it's a really good profession. There are a lot of counselors who work part time. And we don't take call like physicians or nurses. And so for those again who want to go into medicine but don't want the extra stress of those kinds of things, it's a really nice profession. lot of, lots of counselors work part time again because we're seeing patients and they can be scheduled appointments. the salaries I think, especially with our certification and licensure, hopefully are starting to increase and there's certainly a lot of job opportunity. So I would highly recommend checking out the websites and talking to a direct counselor if you can. Even shadowing a counselor and doing some volunteer work in health care, just to make sure that's the area that they like to be in, yeah. Great, it sounds like great advice. Thank you so much. Thank you very much for the opportunity. [BLANK_AUDIO]. You've just finished your training as a Genetic Counselor. Congratulations! And a new couple has come into your office, interested in knowing the genetic risk for their child, for a disease that runs in both of their families. A pretty rare disease, called von Willebrand's disease. Surprisingly, there's a member on each side of the family that has Type3. Which is characterized by a loss of the von Willebrand factor. Which results in blood clot defects much like those in hemophilia. Because of your solid genetics trainings, you know that the genetic allele that causes Type3 von Willebrand's disease is characterized by an autosomal recessive allele. Here's the pedigree of the couples' families. The male has a father that's affected by Type3 von Willebrand's. And the mother has a maternal grandmother that's affected. Now based on the information from the following pedigree and what you know about the genetics of Type3 von Willebrand's disease and the inheritance pattern. What would you report to the parents, to the couple that's interested in having a child? As the probability they would have an affected child. I want you to enter your response as a fraction in this box here, a fraction where you have one number with a slash, a forward slash over another number. I'm not going to give possible answers on this, so it's going to make it a little difficult. See how you do and see what it's like to be a real Genetic Counselor. Okay the answer to this question is one over eight, 1 8th probability of having an affected child. So let's see why this is. Let's take it one step at a time. Let's go to our affected individuals which we know must be homozygous recessive based on the autosomal recessive pattern. If you're affected that means you must be homozygous. Now let's look at the father's father. He must pass down one recessive allele. One of the minuses. But the father here is not affected. So we know that the other allele must be the dominant. This means that the father has a probability of one of being heterozygous. We know the father's heterozygous. Now let's come over here to the grandmother. Again, she must have passed down one recessive copy. And we see that her daughter is unaffected. So she must have one normal dominant copy. So this means she's definitely heterozygous. A probability of one. And what's the probability that she'll pass down the recessive allele, not the dominant allele, to her daughter? We know the only possibility is to be heterozygous, because she's unaffected. But what's the probability of passing. That recessive allele on. It's one half, right? There's only one half chance for that to happen. We assume, because this is a rare disease trait. That anyone mating in from the outside is unaffected. So we assume plus plus here. Type 3 Von Willebrand's disease, along with many other genetic disorders Are pretty rare. And so unless we have some reason to think otherwise, whenever you see individuals mating in from the outside, we assume that they're homozygous normal. So the probability of this offspring, of this child, being heterozygous is one half. So now we have the couple, the man and the woman, the male and the female. And if they're both heterozygous, then what's the probability that they'll have an affected offspring. Well, we can set up the Punnett square if that makes it easier for us. And we see that, out of four possible options, one out of four is homozygous dominant, one out of four is homozygous recessive, and two out of four are heterozygous. So there's a one in four chance of being affected or homozygous recessive. So now all we do is multiply the probabilities that each of the intermediate individuals are heterozygous, along with the probability that the offspring will be affected, so 1 times 1, here. Times one half times 1 4th is equal to 1 over 8 which is the solution. Have you had trouble with this? That is alright. Genetic counselors have to be pretty good at estimating probability and it takes some time and you may even want to use a calculator but hopefully you have a new appreciation. For someone who can read a pedigree efficiently and answer a question like the probability of having an effected individual in a family [BLANK_AUDIO]. Knowing your family history can help determine medical information as well as other general traits. But it can also help you trace your past, From close to distant. Now, because of evolution we know that were all connected at the very least as cousins. But, obviously we look more like some of our family members than we do others. Now discovering all of your different genetic connections deep within your family tree can be really difficult. So you'll need a genetic genealogist to help you with this. They can help you make all of these complex connections. And, moreover, you don't need a, a specialized graduated degree or, even a specialized degree in genetics at all to do this job. A genetic genealogist uses DNA testing in conjunction with traditional genealogy research, in order to learn more about our roots. That's really amazing. you know, we have an individual, in our course named Sterling, who is actually submitted his DNA sample to 23andMe, and gotten results back, and he has been able to find a, as close a match as a second cousin on the relative finder. Now, if you were chatting with him, and he was looking for a next step, what advice would you give to him, to sort of deal with trying to reach out to that person or possibly, you know, finding other connections that he could get more information from? There's a couple different things he should do. First of all, he may want to join one of our adoption DNA mailing lists. We have extremely helpful search angels on those lists, who started out as traditional adoption search angels. So, they know how to work with the records, and if he has any non-identifying information, that can really help to use that in conjunction with his DNA results. So, we can help to teach him on those lists, what he needs to do next. And sometimes, you know, do more than just teach him, but hand hold, and if he gets real close to the answer, one of the search angels will jump in and help. And when I say real close, a second cousin is really close. So, he probably could find someone who'd be willing to help him work through these matches, and try to identify his birth parents. You actually run a very popular blog called your Genetic Genealogist. And I'd love for you to tell us a little bit more about, how you, you started that blog, and what it means to you, and what people use it for today. I guess that means that I have to start at the beginning a little bit. Which is that, I was a genealogist, just hobbiest, and I've always loved genetics. It's not my career in the past, I wasn't trained in it, but I've always been drawn to it, and always really loved it. And so when autosomal DNA was introduced for genealogical purposes, by 23andME, I jumped in with both feet. I was so excited. it was actually Catherine Borges who is the director of ISOGG who first showed me what they were doing, and I just fell madly in love, and it completely took over my life. So it went from being a hobby, to a full-time volunteer position, and now a career. And part of that was starting my blog. I was answering a lot of questions all the time, of people who needed help, right away. And so I wanted a way to be able to answer those questions, and not have to keep repeating the same answers over and over. I was also doing some really fascinating research with my own family, and wanted to have a place to write that up. And, I was corresponding with 23andMe a lot, people who worked over there. Right away I established a good relationship with them. And it was actually one of them who recommended that I start a blog. It was Alex from 23andMe. He's not there anymore, but he was one of the early employees there, and he said, you know, you should write a blog. And so, I'd never done anything like that, and I enjoyed it right off the bat. It was so fun to share my research and get input from everybody, and help people learn what to do with their results as well. Well you know, we're really intrigued that you say, you know, genetics is a passion of yours, but it wasn't actually what you studied. Can you tell us a bit more, about what you did before you got into this, and sort of what your segue was? Were you just super, super-nerd, spend all your free time in genetics, or was this just a, a really fun hobby for you? Genetics was always something that I was interested in, but I had not studied it. In fact, I was a music and theater major in college, and I have fallen in love with genetics just prior to that, in my senior year in high school when I was in AP Bio. We had a little genetics section as part of our course work, and I absolutely loved it. So, I should have taken the clue then, and I, I loved it enough that I did think about changing my major, and I even investigated it. But I already had a scholarship for music at USC, and they didn't have a genetics undergraduate program, or I very well may have done it. But, I just stuck with my original plan. And, many years later, here I end up back again loving genetics, but this time it took over my life. So, I had started as a genealogist, in 2002 I think was when I really got involved, and I was looking at making a family tree for my niece's wedding. And I, the type of person who jumps in with both feet, and I did that, and got kind of obsessed. And did geology for a few years, before I got really interested in the genetics part of it. we were just using Y DNA and MT DNA at the time, which I still thought was interesting, but I wasn't quite as fascinated as I am with autosomal DNA, and that's really become my focus. Although I use the other type in conjunction with it many times, especially in adoption searches. So, how did I get into it? So, I started writing a blog, and I got so many questions from people, and so much interest, that it's literally started taking over my life. I had tons of comments on the blog, I had tons of private emails of people wanting help. Particularly, people who were searching for close family members, like adoptees. And people who had discovered close family members, and hadn't expected it. there's so many people out there that this is happening to, you would be surprised. And I sometimes wonder if there's much more of that, in our society than we realize. But then I think it's also possible, that the people who are drawn to testing are the people who maybe felt a little different, or felt like something was missing in their lives. So to go from entertainment, and then end up in a science career, in my forties, is definitely not something I would have ever imagined, but it is so fascinating. Everyday I wake up in the morning, and I immediately want to jump out of bed and run down to my computer, and see what new fascinating things have transpired overnight. And believe me, there's always something. There's such a huge demand for this. And maybe a year ago, some people had come to me and asked me, you know, if they wanted to have a career in genetic genealogy, was there was there a demand for it? And it's changed. Really then, maybe a year ago, two years ago, there wasn't much of a demand for it. And in the last year or two, it has literally exploded. So now, I absolutely would say that there is room for genetic genealogy consultants people who are willing to learn what we're doing, and if they have a background in genealogy that would be great. And if they don't that's fine too, they'll have to learn both sides of it. So they'll have to learn the DNA part, and the genealogy part. But if they're adventurous, and they're looking for a new career, and they love detective work, because that's exactly what this is, then I would strongly recommend that they look into this as a career. in, in, in the same vein, is there any other specific advice, or resources you would give to someone who's particularly moved by this subject, and wants to investigate about the possibility of studying more? Are there some places they can go to sort of [COUGH] learn more about how to become a genetic genealogist that you recommend? Yes. Because the field is so fast moving, there are very few books that really address the subject. And everyday we have someone asking, you know, is there a genetic genealogy for dummies book. And there isn't, not yet at least. And that's because those of us who've tried to write them, find that they are so quickly outdated, that trying to get something published is very difficult that's up to date. So, we always recommend that you read the blogs, you read my blog, Blaine's blog, Roberta Estes blog, there's some other really good ones out there. Kitty Cooper has recently started writing some fantastic resources. And most of all join our mailing list, because that's where you really get help from the experts. And the people who've been doing this from the very beginning, are very generous with their time, and they're on those lists. So join the International Society of Genetic Genealogy, it's free. It's ISOGG, isogg.org, and then you'll get an invitation to join the DNA newbie list, which I happen to administer and, you can go there and ask the most basic questions. and we have people who have been on the list for quite a while, so we also have more intermediate discussions, and sometimes even venture into more advanced. So just keep reading everything you can, that's how I learned this. Great, CeCe it's been a pleasure chatting with you. I hope you'll join us again, maybe in the discussion forums for our course. That would be great I'd love to. Lately, you've been engrossing yourself in studies of human genetics and genealogies, and you're actually pretty excited to start helping adopted individuals find biological family members. An adopted individual contacts you with their results from their 23andMe report, showing that they actually have about 12.5% identity by descent, IBD, with an unknown person. That means they're genetically related to someone at about 12.5%. So they want to know what this means and how best to proceed. Now the adopted individual doesn't understand this, and they've come to you because they want to know what this 12.5% relatedness means. And they also want to know how best to proceed if they want to reach out and contact this person. So I want you to tell me, what's the likely relationship that this adopted individual might share with this unknown person, and what advice are you going to give them to help them connect. Again, we have a question with no solid right or wrong answer. There are several different relationships that we coul predict with this individual. Great grandparents, grand uncles/aunts, first cousins. And there's a lot of information we could use to help figure out which of those groups best fits. We could look at the age of the individuals. We could compare the Y and mitochondrial chromosomes, the haplogroups, to see how that fits in. We can even look at interesting patterns of X chromosome matching. Obviously, the more information that's able to be shared between the two individuals is going to facilitate the best particular guess that we're able to give that person to tell them what the possible relatedness is. Now as far as advice to give to help them connect, probably some of the best advice is, whatever it takes for them to be prepared for the outcome that it could be. As you can imagine, these relationships, and these surprises and non surprises, very differently vary from person to person. I'm going to draw your attention one more time to the family rainbow that we've seen in lessons five and lessons 11 in this course. The representation of helping you see what the different genetic relatedness. What your relationships are with different people in your family in this sort of hierarchical way. 100% to you, 50% to your mothers, 50% to your parents and siblings, 25% on the next rung, 12% on the next rung. And you keep going out, and each time you go out, you sort of half the amount of information. Ultimately, you've got to be a good Sherlock Holmes. You've got to use context clues, and you've gotta talk to people. Genetic genealogy is an amazing profession. No job fair about genetics would be complete without discussing the role of an actual genetic researcher. Now because genetics is so fundamental for all life. You can study pretty much any living organism from humans, mice, fish, insects, yeast, plants, bacteria. Even viruses if you wanted to. Now this course has been very human centric but really that's not the most exciting part of genetics. Even still, the role of the human geneticist can actually save lives. I'm Uta Francke. I'm a human geneticist originally from Germany, as you can hear. And I'm a Emeritus Professor here at Stanford and also a senior medical director at 23andMe. Tell us when you first fell in love with genetics and when you started studying and sort of your journey to where you are today as a, as a Stanford professor. I went to medical school in Germany and then I trained in pediatrics. I came to this country to train at Los Angeles Children's Hospital. And then I had to think about what else to do and what I really wanted to do was endocrinology because I love biochemistry. I thought biochemistry was the best thing in medical school. But I couldn't get in as a foreign medical graduate. And genetics was just in the beginning, started to get interesting. It was just at the time where it became possible to identify chromosomes by chromosome banding. And there weren't many people going into that field which had a great advantage because as a fellow at UCLA in, in human genetics I was allowed to do anything. I could learn chromosomes, biochemical genetics as well as the, the patients on the wards where people said, oh, what is this my formation is it a syndrome, is it genetic, will it happen again. So, the training involved from the beginning, clinical genetics and then other sub-specialties of genetics. Were you able to interact in, in, in I guess, medical school and beyond as you were sort of discovering the area that you were sort of going to focus on for, for genetics? At the same time, were you able to experience the clinical side of genetics as well? All the time. I was active in clinical genetics for the last 30-something years. And what does that involve exactly? Well, in pediatrics, you're mostly focused on children having problems. So either children who inherit something or children who get very sick after they are born because they cannot metabolize protein, there's something wrong in their metabolism, or children who have certain birth defects. Children who don't do well in school, who are late walking, who are late acquiring skills or have neurological symptoms, seizures. So all kinds of problems that people didn't know what is this. So there was a lot of discovery to do. We found out that certain clinical phenotypes were associated with chromosomal duplications or deletions now that we could look at chromosomes in higher resolution. So, that was the first stage, so in the 70s, make discoveries this way. And now of course whole genome sequencing is applied to these children. And when nobody had, could figure out what caused their problem, you look at the whole sequence and you can find a change. And that's been very successful in the last couple of years since high, high-throughput sequencing methods were developed. So, the exciting thing about my own career is a two-way street, it's always been two ways between the clinic and the laboratory. You see somebody fascinating in the clinic and you bring samples to the lab and you tell your PhDs, look, this is what the patients look like and we have to figure out what's going on here. And that gets everybody motivated. And you learn something in the lab. You find a gene, like we found the gene for Rett syndrome and then you can figure out, can we do anything to help these patients now that we have the gene we figure out its function. In the last few years we spend a lot of time making mouse models. Mm-hm. Because we looked at diseases that involved the central nervous system and you can't go into a human brain and take a sample. I mean some people have part of the brain removed because of some medical indication and then of course you can get it. But what we did make mouse models because the genome is very conserved between the human and the mouse. And even though we're working with deletion syndromes, where part of a chromosome is missing, we can define where in the mouse genome that part is located. Its got the same genes in it. Take it out in the mouse and then you have mice that you can study the development prenatally. Afterwards, take the brain, cut it up, look at what's going on. And this is what we did mostly in, while in this millennium [UNKNOWN]. What, what would you say is your, your general research subject? There were too many to mention. I really started out with whatever was possible to do at the time. Mm-hm. You know I was in a way driven by technology that was being developed and I saw where this technology could be applied to the, the problem. So it started with cytogenetics in the area of banding chromosomes, that was in the 70s. And then biochemical genetics, somatic cell genetics meaning that you can fuse cells from different organisms and you can map chromosomes. So in the beginning of the genome project we were very much invested in mapping genes to chromosomal regions. Mm-hm. With the idea if you have a gene that's been cloned and you know the function, you map it to a chromosome region where we already know a certain disease gene has been mapped, then becomes a candidate gene for this disease. And that was a useful approach in the early 90s. Mm-hm. And then as all these other technologies became available to study global gene expression patterns and doing mouse modeling. And we then we moved to studying individual diseases, like Rett syndrome and Roberts syndrome and some eye formation syndrome. And ultimately, I thought the deletion syndromes, where you take out a chunk of chromosome and, would be interesting because there are many different genes in there. Mm-hm. And which of these genes contribute to what part of the phenotype. I found that fascinating. And that's was the project we're working on in the end. So it, it's a step-wise process of discovery that makes use of the technology as it is being developed. So is thinking about what you do as a career what do you think the future is for people who are interested in being clinicians and bridging the gap between you know, people and the research that can help them. Do you think there's going to be a bigger opening in, in, in the future for people who want to, who want to so do something similar to, to what you're doing? Well there was definitely a need and there are many opportunities. But the drawbacks are in genetics for example, we don't have enough people coming into medical genetics out of the medicine side because in genetics, you don't make any money. We don't have procedures. We don't, don't stick tubes into people that we can charge for. It's all cognitive. You know, you spend a lot of time going through complicated information, searching the literature, sitting down with the family counseling them. You don't get reimbursement for this. Sure. And therefore it's not attractive, not if, not for people who went to American medical schools and to enter a career of a medical geneticist. So we have a shortage and many of the most successful people are foreign trained medical, medical doctors. So don't have to pay for their medical education. But we hopefully have a, a very large international audience you know, participating in our course. Mm-hm, mm-hm. What would you say to a student or a life time learner who's watching and is really interested in this subject and may even be interested in thinking about this as a career. What advice would you give them? I mean I can only say this has been a lifetime learning experience to be part of genetics during those decades when everything developed and we are not done yet. I think it goes on and will be even more exciting. There are many secrets in the genome that are yet to be unraveled and both PhDs and, and MDs should consider this. And then genetic counseling, that's a whole new career path. We have a training program here at Stanford for genetic counselors. It's a masters program because you don't have to have a PhD or an MD to tell people, this is what we found in your sequence and this is what it means. And these people are trained specifically to do that. And we'll need a ton of them, lots of them. So I want to encourage people to consider this as a career. You have finally finished your graduate work and clinical fellowship after many years. And are excited to become faculty at a research hospital studying the genetics of cranial-facial development. You are soon presented with a case where a family has a child with an ear condition. Where the external part of the ears malformed and enclosed to the outside environment. This is similar to a set of phenotypes observed for a trait called Microtia. A congenital underdevelopment of the outer ear. Now let's continue this hypothetical a little bit more. Groundbreaking work from another lab has shown that a major cause of Microtia, is caused by a particular allele on Chromosome 14. It turns out that this particular allele promotes enhanced expression of gene Y, which is the gene that causes microtia. You begin to hypothesize that you could develop a drug that might change the effect of this gene during development. To prevent children from developing microtia. Assuming that the microtia allele on chromosome 14 directly effects gene y somehow. I want you to tell me is the particular allele on chromosome 14 that's causing microtia likely in the coding or non-coding region. And then I want you to tell me what effect you need your drug to have to achieve the desired effect of normal ear development. Explain your answer in the box here. Okay, you have mastered the art of genetics. You started with that Udacity course, Tales from the Genome and you went on to more schooling, you got a degree, you became a human genetics researcher. And now you find yourself in this situation and you figure that it's most likely, the allele chromosome 14, causing the microtia, by affecting the transcription, the expression of another gene elsewhere. That this allele must be in the non-coding region and you also realized during you test to figure out, how you could develop a drug to treat this, that you'd need it to reduce the transcription of gene Y somehow. It could directly bind the promoter, or enhancer or silencer regions, and affect transcription or it could somehow interact with the allele on chromosome 14. We're not sure how, based on the information here, to ultimately affect the overall transcription of gene Y. Now, this is a pretty big hypothetical question here because, we normally don't try to develop drugs that we can give to pregnant women, to affect their development. Usually, genes that are important in development, are important for many things, not just one thing. And so if we start going around altering transcription with drugs and other modalities, we really run the risk of causing more harm than help. Either way, these are important questions that human geneticists get to wrestle with, and really make a difference in the clinic. So far in this lesson we've discussed six different professions that use genetic information for their day to day lives. But we've only scratched the surface, there are a ton of other fields that use genetic information; for example, forensic scientists and police departments use it a lot. Even drug researchers like pharmaceutical companies. And even science illustrators or science journalists need to have a firm understanding of science and genetics. To write and represent this information to the public. Pretty much any clinical practitioner would need to know something about genetics. Now, because we don't have the time to cover all these other different kinds of jobs as well in this lesson or this course, I'd like to direct your attention to a website from the NHGRI. The National Human Genome Research Institute. That collects all kinds of resources and information that you can use to find out all the careers out there that you can apply your new found genetic knowledge. Speaking from a culture that's very much more superstitious, and about, in this case, I feel like I hear a lot of people in the younger generations who believe that's great. Now we can find out different things, whereas with the older generations, I feel like we hear a lot of, you should never play with that kind of stuff, you don't know what's going to happen. And even though it just in this case testing it leads to trying to fix things, or trying to change things in order to stop. You know, you, you don't know where it's going to go, from here. Sure. For sure. Definitely we don't know. I that the public sort of understanding of this sort of genetic information is sort of twofold. I think one, there's sort of this science fictiony sort of portrayal of of, this will be the end golice, this will be some of answers, like you will, you will find the outlet. Are you going to develop Alzheimer's, not sort of the understanding of probability. So I think there's a lot of stock in this information that may not have come to fruition yet, scientifically. I think the other end of it, is there is a lot of mystery, and a lot of mysticism behind it, and a lot of you know, curiosity, and and just lack of understanding. Carol, you were going to say something too? I had seen an article written by a medical ethicist it just was very coincidental. And his point of view is that people like us, should not have access to genetic information, and this is up to the physicians. So people like us, [CROSSTALK] is just the general public? Yeah, the general public. And I debated him on this issue and it, it I think that in the medical community and in, and in probably in education, where people are sitting in their ivory tower. They think that the general public shouldn't have access to this information, and I think that sells people short. Particularly today, where in the age of the computer, age where everything is on Facebook and on Twitter. And, I mean it, it's open. People want to know. And I think that it's going to change radically. I think part of what Strong was saying about, there's the two sides of it. People think, put too much stock in it, or there's this strange you know, misunderstanding or mysticism about it. Is the fact that this kind of availability of information, is so new. I mean 23andMe just about eight years ago, cost $1,000. And now it's under 100. And so it's only now, that we're starting to, it's only now available, to the general public. And there's questions of, should the general public be allowed to have this information. In the state of, where I'm from, in Maryland, 23andMe is illegal. You cannot. It is illegal? You cannot, 23andMe will not ship to Maryland, or New York. Really. Because the state has passed that genetic information, can only come from a doctor. What do you Sterling what do you think about public understanding of genetics, in particular? Do you think it's would you give them an A plus? Would you give em? I wouldn't give them an A plus. But I'd give them a potential for having an A plus. I think that the impact that personal genomics and the rate at which discoveries are happening I think that this is going to force the hand of education in the public arena. I think that people both are going to be interested, and are going to want to learn more about the nitty gritty of genetics. And I think that right now there's just a lot of wonder and curiosity. And there's some people that have really good information, and there's some people that have really bad information, just about like anything. and genetics you know, as you know, can be both a simple, some simple concepts to some very complex one. And the information that one gets from their own personal genetic background has both of those things. And it has the potential to be confusing and to be a minefield of misinformation,.But I, I hold a positive I think there's a positive potential for people learning and understanding. What's, what's always so fascinating to me, is when we meet new parents, average sized parents, that have had a dwarf child. And it always comes to, they tell the story of when they were given the diagnosis. And 90% of them, have horrifically bad stories to tell, about how they were told their child was going to be a dwarf. And I always want to go back and hear the other side of that story. You know, was it just a shock to them and, and they read negativity into it? Or was that negatividly, negativity actually delivered? Mm-hm. I just want to know in general, do you have any hopes or fears for the future of genetic research? Well, a cousin of mine, the daughter of my uncle who was BRCA2, found out she was BRCA2, and she's in the process of seeing physicians. And one physician said to her, based on her age, and my age, and my uncles age, that there's research going on. And they're probably within the next few years, they will find a moderator mutation. Because, why is it that there's a spectrum of people who would get breast cancer? And so, th, we don't know this yet. But my, that's my hope as well, that the research will continue, and that they will find out that some people, why do some people get breast cancer, who have BRCA2 and some people don't? Is it environment or is it drinking too much alcohol, or not enough alcohol? [LAUGH] You know, what is it? Hopefully that second one. Yeah, yeah. So, I think I definitely believe in research, and rewarding the companies that make these contributions. So you, so you think the journey, you hope the journey will continue into research. Right, yes. And funding the research. Right. What else? I think of it from the perspective of my grandchildren that will come in about 10 or 15 years, and all of this testing will be pu, back in the forefront in our family. I guess I'm, I'm, there's a sense of relief knowing that my boys as future dads, will have the information available to them. And they will have the freedom of choice, to do with that what they choose. I hope it continues, and I hope it doesn't get out of hand, whatever that means. I think, for me, my best hope would be that the information progresses, to the point where that it helps people who are looking at cures and treatments. That it helps them do their job, and that it helps the general public make informed personal decisions. My fear is kind of, it's lighthearted if you've seen the movie Gattaca? That's basically the, one of the fears of it going out of hand. Where there is, you know, people are forced to make choices or where socioeconomic status can determine, like, people can take more advantage of this. I mean, it's kind of a lighthearted ja, I fear. But, you know? It's, it's legitimate to fear that. And, that kind of embodies the fear of, you know, people make, having their ability to make the choice taken away from them, due to socioeconomic status, or outside pressures, I think. Because, my hope would be that it remains personal decisions. my hope is that, you know, it will help individuals make medical decisions in a more informed way, both in themselves, and with clinicians. and that like, for instance, pharmacologically, like, the pharmacological principles. Once we know the genetics of how we may respond to certain drugs, you know, we'll be able to fine tune which drugs would help us more, which one's will more likely produce side effects. that's just an example. I think one thing that all of you touched on, but we never brought out into the open so directly, is the idea of genetic determinism. And really in your own way, you each have brought to this course, by representing a trait or a particular background how gray genetic determinism really is, and that human beings are not just their genes. Right? We're human beings. We're not just one trait. We're many traits. we're many people together. And that I hope for the future, that this genetic information is, we're able to use this together, to realize all of the many wonderful things that it means to be human and to make us unique, individually and as a species. and that my only fear is that we grow out of our adolescence of, you know, misunderstanding each other, and, and I hope that we can understand how we make decisions, and consensus about these ideas. And I, I think very truly that it's in great part to people's willingness like your own, to participate in projects like this, and other educational opportunities that that's going to be possible. So thank you for [CROSSTALK] for being here. Thank you. Thank you. Why are we here? Where do we come from? And what will become of us in the future? There are so many big questions out there that science, specifically geneticis, has some amazing answers for. Now in this course so far, we've just begun to understand the fundamentals that scientists and researchers are using every day to try to answer these questions. If you've made it this far, then you've been equipped with the essential knowledge you need to go to the next step. All you need to do is keep asking questions. And fan the flame of curiousity and doubt. Genetics is the central subject tying all the major facets of biology together. And explaining the driving force behind evolution. Now while the future of personalized medicine is about to come crashing down on top of us whether we want it to or not. My passion for genetics remains rooted in the simple curiosity about the origin of life and the human condition. I think Malcolm Potts and Roger Short summed it up best in their biology textbook about the evolution of human sexuality. At one extreme there are those who like to think that a chicken is merely an egg's way of making another egg. Or maybe, as Richard Dawkins would have it, the soma is merely the product of an ageless battle between selfish genes striving for mastery and seeking propagation through succeeding generations. Our life on earth has not been a series of discontinuous acts of creation. But it is an unbroken thread tying us all to our ancestors. And with the potential of linking us to the innumerable future generations. We are indeed trailing clouds of glory. The glory of billions of years of continuous evolution. We do not create life, we have only the privilege of passing it on. Congratulations! You've made it through the entire course tails from the genome. This is your last concept map. I want you to see if you can use the words from the word bank, fill in the blanks and good luck! Okay, I really hope you enjoyed this lesson and that you learned a lot about different kinds of professions, you can use genetics with. One profession we learned about is that of a Bioethicist. Bioethicists are critical in helping us create new ethical standards in medical science and research. They frequently debate issues like gene patenting and they also help us to interpret important legal issues such as GINA or the Genetic Information Non-discrimination Act. Another important profession uses genetics, but which you don't need an advanced degree, or even a specialized degree in genetics for, is a director of clinical operations. A director of clinical operations designs and manages clinical trials. And they also use information from pharmacogenetics to help inform their decisions about designing and managing those clinical trials. Now, another profession, specifically a human geneticist. Deals with hardcore genetic questions. And their research sometimes contributes to clinical trials that are carried out by director of clinical operations. Now human geneticists find genetic factors resulting in various traits. Which we've learned about in lesson one, as well as simple traits in lesson eight and complex traits in lesson nine. They also study gene expression which we learned about in lesson two, three, and four. And a human geneticist in particular will frequently make use of a pedigree. Another profession that also uses pedigrees is a genetic counselor. Remember a pedigree is useful because it denotes family relationships as well as whether or not you're affected by a particular trait. So it can reveal an inheritance pattern of a trait you're interested in. And genetic counselors frequently help with family planning. Couples who want to have a child, and they're very interested in knowing what the future of that child might be, health or otherwise. Another profession that uses genetics is a computational biologist. And a computational biologist is going to use copious amounts of computer science coding. They're usually specialists in computers, specifically computer science or coding. Who also learn enough Biology, to apply what they know in computer science and coding. Now, one of the specific examples we talked about in our course, is how a computational biologist in particular, can actually derive an IBD score. Which is an identity by distance score. Which we know can indicate relatives and ancestry, which we learned about in lesson seven and 11. But another important profession we discussed. A genetic genealogist also uses IBD or identity by decent. And other kinds of information to help find relatives and ancestry for individuals. If you have any interest in learning more about these professions and others you should check out the instructor's notes on this page for career resources. In this final lesson, we focused on six different professions that use genetic information to a different extent in their day to day jobs. And we've also looked at the societal implications of having personal genetic information. Let's see if we can summarize these major concepts into four main points. Point one, institutional medical and scientific research has not always been conducted in ethical ways. Point two, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act was signed into law in the United States in 2008 to allay fears about the misuse of personal genetic information. Point three, we've discussed six different professions that use genetics in their day to day jobs to a varying degree. For example, a bioethicist, a computational biologist, a director of clinical operations, a genetic counselor. A genetic genealogist, and a human genetics researcher. And Point four, as the future of personal genetics fast approaches, it's important that the public understanding of science with regards to this kind of personal genetics technology advances. If we want to make ensure that we make the best possible decisions as a society. There's so many awesome careers out there that primarily focus on genetics every day. But there's a growing number of careers that use genetic information more and more all the time. Now this class is just a taste of all the genetic stories that are out there. So if you ever hear another story, or you want a quick review of genetic information for another genomics class, then come back and see us. Now, we want to direct your attention to two important appendices to the course. The first appendix actually has a full-length interview for everyone who was interviewed in the course. The second appendix actually will show you how to extract DNA in the comfort of your own kitchen, using nothing more than household items. Now it's time for us to wrap things up, and we really want to thank you for participating, because without you, we wouldn't be here. And we also want to thank our production team here at Udacity. Particularly, Taylor and Grant. [LAUGH]. And we'd also like to thank our collaborators at 23 and ME. Especially Esther Kim Jeff Pollard, Joanna Mountain, and Uta Franka. And thank you to everyone who allowed us to interview them about their life stories. Now, we love getting feedback from you. Good or bad. So stay in touch. Go to the forums. E-mail us. And let us know if this class has helped you out in some way. Now in the mean time, go impress your friends with your newfound genetic knkowledge. And congratulations on completing Tales from the Genome. Woo. All done. Ow. It's a wrap. Let's get started with Tales from the Genome. We're really excited that you've decided to join us on our exploration of the human experience through biology. We really hope that this going to be an awesome learning odysee that just might change the way you think about yourself and others in a fundamental way. For example, whether you know it or not, the objects in these two images are intimately related. The image on the right, I think you already know what that is. But the image on the left, represents a DNA molecule, the substance that makes up all of our genomes. All living things including you, are created from their genomes which are a set of genetic instructions. That seems pretty mechanical to me. Well it is, sort of, Biology is just Chemistry that crawls. So you mean like chemistry that comes to life. Well yeah, what I mean is that every physical aspect of who you are is deeply rooted in the chemical engineering processes that interprets the information within your genome. Together with environmental influence, your genome and unique development, the chemistry of you is what brought you to where you are today. But, I am a psychology person. So it's not just the physical aspects, right? What about our feeling and behaviors? Well, your physical aspects. You size, your metabolism. Even your behaviors and your interests. So even the personality traits, too. Exactly. These are all deeply influenced by your genome's instructions. If you were to zoom into your body. You would see that you are made up of trillions of individual cells, all different, because they read different parts of your genome's instructions. Some are skin cells that use melanin to protect you from UV rays from the sun. Some are stomach cells that help you digest products that you eat and drink. Others are red blood cells that carry oxygen to all parts of your body. All of these cells and more. Use your genomes instructions to build who you are. You are a giant conglomeration of cells, all meticulously reading the book of instructions to keep you alive and functioning. Forming the basis for all of your traits. Now, this course will help you relate your traits to this book of instruction. And show you some really amazing life stories along the way. To help you learn new material, we created a unique concept map for each lesson. Here's an incomplete map for lesson 1 that you can also download from the instructor's notes. Print it out or just keep it handy, and see if you can fill in the empty blanks. As you go along. At the end of the lesson there will be an opportunity for you to fill in the missing words to see a complete version. If you prefer to have the complete version as you go through the lesson just skip to the end of this lesson and look in the instructor's notes for the complete concept map of Lesson One. I highly encourage you to try using the incomplete version now though. Filling in your own notes as the lesson progresses and then checking out the completed map at the end after finishing. This course is about me. It's about you. It's about all of us, really. It's about how our genomes, or our genetic instructions, shape who we are. So to help, we've asked five people to join us and share their life stories throughout this course. And hopefully, through them, you'll see how our genome can manifest different traits that can profoundly shape our lives. Yes. As we follow their personal journeys, we hope you'll begin to connect real stories with real traits. So let's hear your story. Give us five words. One in each one of these boxes, to describe who you are. When you think about ways to describe yourself, Lauren, what do you think about? Well, there's physical traits, like, you know, height or body shape, and then, well, there's personality traits like extroversion or introversion, and then there's my interests, so like music or art. So there are many features we could use to describe an individual, and we call these traits. Traits are any distinguishing feature of an individual. For example, Lauren, if you had to describe yourself in three traits, what would you say? well, I have light hair. I'm outgoing. And I'm really into psychology. Yeah, absolutely. I think I would say that I'm tall, I'm pretty friendly, outgoing as well, and I'm a huge lover of the Zelda series of video games from Nintendo. So, are you saying that all of our traits come from our genome? Well to a certain extent we're saying that all of these attributes are traits, but the extent to which they're influenced by our genome is variable. Okay, because I was going to say, things like my personal interests I don't think come from the genome. Sure. I mean things like height are, are things that we suspect would have a major genetic component. whereas my general love of video games, probably has less to do with my genetics, and a lot more to do with my environment. For our purposes in this course, we'll use three main categorizations for traits. We'll have physical vs. behavioral traits, visible vs. hidden traits. An innate versus learned traits. So let's see if you can classify height for each of this categories. Is it physical or behavioral? Is it visible or is it hidden? Or is it innate or is it learned? Check out the boxes that apply. Height is something that's physical, not behavioral. It's visible not hidden and it's inate not learned. Not every trait fits neatly into one category or another. For example, height is something that we can pretty easily identify as being physical, but something like intelligence is something that's a little more harder to categorize. Intelligence might be something that you describe as behavioral and not physical, unless you define it by the number or pattern of neuroconnections in the brain In which case that might seem more physical. It could also be visible or hidden, depending on whether you look at the product of intelligence or the abstract nature of it. It is also still debated how much intelligence may be learned, or how much of it may be innate. Can you think of another trait that is hard to define in these categories? Try to use a one word answer and remember, there's no right or wrong response here. Just want to get you to think about which traits could be hard to catagorize. Let's briefly explore the difference between physical and behavioral traits. By physical, we mean anything that's defined by our material makeup. And behavioral traits describe how we act or interact with the world around us. Check out this footage that we shot here at Udacity with some of our colleagues. this is totally awesome. Can I try it? You bet. yuck is there broccoli in here? Yeah. I think I taste broccoli, broccoli is disgusting. Taking the person who really disliked the broccoli. Can you name one physical and behavioral trait that they showed in this scenario? The specific taste of the food is generally described as a physical trait. Which is determined gby the taste buds. But, notice the reaction to the taste. Yuck, said the person. That response is considered a behaviroral trait. Believe it or not, the way you perceive taste is in fact determined genetically a lot of times because it has to do with your taste bud receptors. But not all traits can easily be distinguished as visible or hidden. That's true, and sometimes it can be really hard to tell. Let's take Andy here for example. Hi Andy. Hi. You see these beautiful big blue eyes? [INAUDIBLE] So the presence of these big blue eyes are obviously a visible trait. But there's something about Andy that you may not suspect, and we can't see on the outside. If we had an x-ray machine, and we looked inside the mid-section of his body, we would be able to see that his organs are actually flipped the opposite direction from most people. This is a syndrome called Situs Inversus, where all of the organs are flipped, left-right to be the opposite symmetry. Now you'd never know this about Andy because this is a trait that's not easily visible by the unaided eye. So why don't you actually think about two traits you have, one that's visible and one that's hidden, and enter them text boxes here. And if you can, try to limit your respnses to one word. Some traits can be obvious and distinguish easily in whether they are learned or innate To help us illustrate this concept a little bit better. We have asked some udacious friends to come in today and talk to us for a bit. This is Clifton and Eduardo and I am pretty sure both these guys have the innate ability to speak, don't you guys? Yeah off course. I am pretty sure these words are coming from my mouth. Okay, great, and based on their answers I would also assume they would understand me if I were to speak in english. And say science is amazing, because they both learned how to speak English, but Clifton here also knows how to speak Mandarin. [mandarin] [mandarin] And, what does that mean, exactly? Oh, it just means, Science is amazing, in Mandarin. Clifton can do that because he learned to speak both Mandarin and English. But, he may not understand Spanish, let's say. [spanish] What? Exactly. That just means science is amazing in Spanish. Okay, now I want you guys, see if you can have a conversation with each other. [FOREIGN] okay guys. How's it going? Are you able to understand each other? Not really. That's because you both have the innate ability to speak, but you've learned different languages. Another good example of a learned trait is something like religious belief or cultural practice. Usually, people believe in a religion that they were raised in, but later in life, they can adopt a different religion, or even no religion at all. Another example would be music. You can perceive music and then you can have music that you like. Which one do you think is more of a learned trait and which one do you think is more of an innate trait? So the ability to perceive music is actually an innate trait. And the fact that I love Broadway show tunes and Disney songs is a learned trait. Because it's what I was exposed to as I was growing up. And I like George Strait, or the Donnas, or Steve Miller Band. But we all have our own taste. For any trait, there are usually variations. So wait, are you talking about things like eye color, like blue, green, brown, hazel. Right, exactly. Eye color is an example of a single trait, but for that one trait you can have different versions or variants; brown, green, blue. Variation is a huge theme in this course. And it's important to recognize that different people have different perspectives on different variations. It's true, I guess. I've always liked hazel eyes. And why have you always liked hazel eyes? I don't know. I just think they're better. And I guess that's sort of what we're talking about. The word better sometimes implies that there's a good or bad eye color to begin with. We don't really want to do that. For the most part, good and bad shouldn't be used to reference personal preference. Instead, for our course, we'll reserve the word bad only for variations of traits that cause serious health conditions, or even fatality. Fair enough. So I want to know what you think. What traits are better or worse than other traits? These can be physical, personality or behavioral traits. List one in each one of these boxes. The core idea behind defining all of our traits is the idea that we're not just one trait, but a collection of all of our traits together. We all have our own stories about what it's like to live with different traits, and we're all different because of the environment we live in or certain combination of traits. And help us on our journey of understanding the biological basis for many of our traits. We're going to be sharing personal stories from individuals from all walks of life. We've recruited five people that we're going to talk to extensively throughout the whole course, and see what it's like to live with their certain traits, and how these traits affect their life. Our group of five individuals consists of a visible and hidden traits That have come to shape who they are in both small and big ways. By the end of this course, you'll be familiar with the particular traits these individuals represent, and the biological significance of having these variations. You know, let's, let's go meet 'em. Let's do it. Hey, I'm Sterling Tadlock, and I'm from North Carolina, and I was adopted after birth. I'm Ryan Salvador, I'm from Maryland, and I'm lactose intolerant. I'm Carol Kushnir, I'm from Woodside, California, and I had the BROCA two mutation. Which predisposes me to the possibility of breast or ovarian cancer. I am Kagure Kabue, I'm from Kenya and I have dark skin,skin pigmentation as well as being preliminary that has a high frequency of sickle cell. I am Ginny Foos originally from Boston, but now from the Bay area. I have achondroplasia which is the most common form dwarfism. Great thank you so much for being here you know, as we go throughout the course we are going to talk a lot about in depth the biology of the traits that you guys are here to represent for us. We are going to teach gene regulation. We're going to teach inheritance patterns and dominance. We're going to teach about mutations and complex traits, as well as how to trace our lineage and family ancestry. and as we get on this journey to do this, it's probably a good idea for us to maybe better define the traits that we have. And that's not an easy process. Sometimes we have traits and, we may think they fit neatly in certain categories, but then we start thinking about them in different ways. And we think it's not so simple anymore. So, for anyone who's interested, I want you to sort of take the trait that you're sort of here to talk to us about in this course. And I want you to try to tell me, first if you think your trait is visible or hidden, and then physical or behavioral, and then innate or learned. And let's start with Jenny over here. What do you think about that? Do you think you're what's a what's a [CROSSTALK] I think my trait is visual, visible. [LAUGH] Visible, huh? Visible, yes. I think that my, it, it's a physical issue. And at times an emotional issue. and I think it has shaped who I am, in a good way. Absolutely. Kugaray, what do you think? Tell us about let's focus on skin pigmentation. Would you classify that as a visible or a hidden trait? Visible. Visible, in general. Yes, a visible trait [UNKNOWN] Physical or behavioral? Physical. And innate or learned? It's innate. Innate. Right. [CROSSTALK] So, pretty, that's more of a, I guess, more of a straightforward kind of like, achondroplasia and dwarfism. You know, they sort of fit into more easily defined categories. Carol, tell us a little bit about a BRCA 2 mutation. [INAUDIBLE] Well, BRCA2 mutation is invisible, and I didn't know I had BRCA2 mutation. And I, it's invisible. Mm-hm. And I did take steps once I found out. Took, I took steps to address the issue. Mm-hm. Are there any would you describe, obviously this seems to be an innate trait, right? It's not anything you could change. Right. And and is most likely a physical trait. And it manifests physically, not behaviorally. [INAUDIBLE] Right. In any real way. It could manifest, basically. It could. Exactly. Right now, it doesn't. Right, so it's sort of a little unclear, like, whether or not it will have an effect or it won't. Right. All right. Ryan, what about lactose intolerance? So in terms of visibility, that's a little trickier because it's not, you can't tell by looking at me that it, that I'm lactose intolerant. But if you watch me, you can, you can tell, kind of by my choices that I make while I'm eating. If I'm at a restaurant with friends, then you might be able to see, why aren't you eating that pizza. Or why are you taking a pill while you're eating your food. So that sense it's visible and hidden. Hm. But it's definitely. What about physical or behavioral as sort of the. Yeah, that's the same thing. So it's. Definitely the trait itself is physical, but it can manifest beha, it, it changes your behavior. Very interesting. And this is something learned or innate? it's definitely innate, but you learn that you have it. [LAUGH] Exactly. And Sterling, what about adoption, that's sort of a tricky kind of trait. [LAUGH] Wow, it, it's hard to define that as as a trait, because I have a whole host of traits that are all physical, hidden, innate, learned they fall into both categories, from all the traits that I have, I just don't know. You know my biological relatives, if they also had those traits and what, how their genetics contributed to the traits that I'm now expressing. Although we each have our own set of traits, sometimes it's useful to think about traits among a population of individuals. For example, a population is a particular group or type of people in an area. So although there are many ways to identify a population, a common metric is geography, as you can see here, with a map of the world. Just as people and families share common traits because they're genetically related and they share a common environment. Some geographic populations share common traits because, like families, they're also genetically related and share a common environment. For example. Here's a map of the world, divided by countries, showing you the breakdown for the trait of sex. For our purposes, sex simply means whether or not you have male or female reproductive organs. Now, it is true that it's possible to have both male and female reproductive parts, and those are called intersex individuals. But for our purposes we're only going to consider two categories in the meantime. In our world map here, the redder a country seems, the more males to females it has in its population. And the more blue a country appears, the more females to males you have in that country. The closer it is to a more neutral color, white. So a, a lighter blue, a lighter red. Or a white color, in fact. This means that the male and female ratio is roughly equal. So what I want you to do is look at the map here and tell me. Which two geographic regions in the map here have the highest imbalance of either males or females? Is it Canada, Russia. China, Saudi Arabia, Australia, or Brazil. Remember, I want you to pick two geographic regions that have the highest imbalance of either males or females. Remember to use the legend over here and look at the map to see if you can figure out which countries have the highest imbalance. So remember the darker the color, the stronger the imbalance. So the dark blue Russian region and the dark red Saudi Arabian regions would have the strongest imbalances. Other areas like China do have a slight imbalance, too. You can see because it's pinkish not, not as dark red as Saudi Arabia, but they do have more males than females. And other regions like Australia, Brazil, and Canada also have a slight imbalance, because you can see they're light blue, meaning that they have more females than males. But they're not as blue as the Russian region is. Up until now, we've been assuming a connection between related individuals. It's a rather fundamental assumption. So fundamental, we don't even know we do it. Well, that's because it goes without saying. At some point, we all had to have a biological mother and a biological father. And this is true. But for our purposes, it's important to make [INAUDIBLE]. An explicit connection about the traits we share as a family as well as the genetic component that we also share. Here are two pictures of my parents, my biological mom and my biological dad. Take a look at both and which do you think I look most like? Do you think I look more like my mom or more like my dad? Oh, Matt, that's a tough one. I think I'm going to have to go with your mom, though. Yeah, I think so, too. Outside of our appearance, though, we may identify with one parent or another because we may share a particular trait that's visible or hidden, innate, or learned. But it really raises a more interesting question. Why do some of our traits looks like one parent, and other traits look like the other? So if you're familiar with your bioloical parents, who do you think you most resemble? Check the box that applies. Trying to figure out how certain traits are inherited can be really difficult. Sometimes we have a trait like one of our parents or the other, and other times we may have a trait not like our parents at all. Take these three examples of families with different traits. For example, look at height in the first scenario. We have two parents who are relatively short. Will have a son that's taller than both of them. Much taller, in fact. We have a family where the parents have a daughter and a little baby. And they all share the same skin color, roughly speaking. And in this third family, we have one parent who has a disposition of being happy all the time. And the other parent has a disposition of being sad all the time. Both the daughter and the son have a disposition of being happy. What I want you to tell me, is does the indicated trait appear related to one or both of the parents at all? For example, in the case of height, I want you to compare the son to the parents. And see if it appears that in some form or fashion whether it's a combination of the parents or one of the parents sharing this trait, does the son appear related with regards to this particular trait of height. And the same thing in the scenario with skin color and the same thing with the scenario we set up for disposition. Go ahead and tell me which answer you think is best for each case. So the answer to this question is that both the skin color and the disposition appear to be related in these families, as opposed to height, doesn't appear to related in our first family. Now what do we mean by this? All I mean is that when we look at the son here in the first example, he's much taller than the parents. Both the parents are short, so we're asking the question, where did the trait of the son being tall come from. Not only does it not appear to come from either one of the parents individually, but it doesn't look to be a combination of the pair's height either. In the case of skin color and disposition though, we see that both the daughter and the baby share the same skin tone as the parents so it appears as if that trait was related in this case. And the same thing for disposition. While one parent seems to be sad most or all of the time, the children are happy and resemble what the other parent looks like most of the time, which is having a happy or really cheery disposition. Now it's really important to remember as we go through this lesson and all the lessons in this course Just because a trait appears to be related or to be inherited in a particular ways. Looks can be deceiving sometimes. And we will talk in great detail about what aspects of traits have a genetic component and which of those might have an environmental component down the line. Humans have been trying to figure out how traits are inherited in all their peculiar ways since the beginning of recorded history. Listen. I think we can even hear the eternal argument happening now. You gotta be kidding me. Pea plants. I can explain blended traits, but you think what works for pea plants works for humans? My method explains all the traits that yours can't, even those that appear to skip generations. After the rules of heredity are true for all living things. From pea plants to humans. No, you guys are forgetting about the really complex behavioral traits that play a big part in the environment. [CROSSTALK] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. guys, there's no need to yell at each other. I'm sure this is something we can settle with the friendly demonstration. Hippocrates Why don't we go with your idea first? Allow me to introduce myself. My name is Hippocrates. I'm a natural philosopher from over 2400 years ago, and I've studied the mechanisms of inheritance. Okay, well lay it on us. It's called Blended Inheritance. Well, what's Blended Inheritance? Blended Inheritance is the idea that one particular trait in an offspring came from one of the parents directly or is a mix of the parents traits. But how do you think that works, exactly? I'm not exactly sure, but I've seen this fluid that comes from the male reproductive organ, and I think females probably have something similiar. My theory is that it's a mix based on the battle of fluids between the male and female. Hm, well I'm pretty sure you're right about the male reproductive fluid. But I think you're a little behind the times on the female fluid. My theory is that these fluids are actually an amalgamation of fluids from throughout the whole body. Each responsible for forming that particular part. The fluid from the toes is responsible for forming the toes, and the fluid from the eyes is responsible for forming more eyes, and so on. At conception, a battle of fluid takes place, and the child will resemble aspects of whichever fluid wins that battle; one or the other parents, or a mix of both. Ok. I mean, even though we know a lot more about how reproduction works now, your idea of blended inheritance does sound kind of reasonable. But, I can think of an example that breaks the rule of inheritance. Which of the following scenarios do you think shows that Hippocrates's blending model doesn't explain every trait? Hmmm. My theory can explain a child looking like Mom or Dad, or a mix of both of them, but it cannot explain a trait that doesn't look like it came from either of the parents. hah! I knew you'd need my help. Okay, Gregor. How can you, how can you help us? My name is Gregor Mendel, and I think I can explain what Hypocrites' blending inheritance model cannot. Okay how's that? Well, as a monk, I have quite a bit of quiet time, so I did some breeding experiments with pea plants that were published in 1866, which I think have some serious implications on human traits. Well, what was your model called? I call it Particulate inheritance. Particulate inheritance means that characteristics can be passed down from generation to generation through individual units. I believe you call them genes nowadays? Wow! I can't believe you figured all that out using just pea plants! Why does everybody doubt the pea plants? Think about organisms collection of genes, being more like a deck of cards rather than a pail of paint. A red and white paint can be mixed and the result would be pink, but passing that down, you'll never get true red again. Genes are more like cards, that can be sorted and passed along, generation after generation in an undiluted form. Sometimes, the cards can be covered up so that they don't appear at all until they're passed down to the following generation. That's a pretty clever description. Which of the following examples do you think can be explained by particulate, but not blended inheritance? Check all the boxes that apply. The example of balding, flower petal color, and heart condition all reveal offspring with traits that do not appear in the parents. Thus, this cannot be explained by blending inheritance. But, it could be explained by particulate inheritance. But wait, I don't understand. Let's take the girl with the heart condition. Neither one of her parents have the same condition. So how can they be responsible if they don't share the same trait? Well, one of the big discoveries that I picked up on is that living organisms have 2 copies of every gene. And though these copies can be different from each other. Only one manifests itself as a trait in a certain generation. Let's use our deck of playing cards as an example. Let's imagine that each pair has 2 playing cards each. A six of hearts which correlates with a normal functioning heart, and an ace which can cause the abnormal heart condition. Even though one of the copies in the pair causes the heart condition It's hidden, as long as the other copy has normal function. So the parent appears to have normal heart function, even though they have one normal copy, and one abnormal copy. When the parents have a child, each parent randomly passes on one of the cards. As long as the child ends up with at least one number card She'll have normal heart function, but if she ends up with two aces she'll suffer from that abnormal heart condition. So see if you can figure out how many total possible combinations there are if these two parents have a child. And how many combinations would result in the heart condition. Let's look at this. If each parent randomly passes down one card, there are three combinations total. So if you notice, only one out of the three have two aces. So only one of these combinations would give you the abnormal heart condition. Let's go back to Matt. That's right. So even though the parents didn't show the heart condition The child ended up with a trait that neither parent showed. All because there are two copies, and one version was hidden by the other. That's all very interesting, but you're missing out on all the other traits that have an important environmental component. Okay, well Skinner, let's hear it. I'm B.F. Skinner, and Hippocrates and Mendel have done some nice work, but are missing how important the environment can be in shaping traits, particularly behavioral ones. So are you referring to that classic phrase, nature versus nurture? Yeah, somewhat. When I was at Harvard in grad school in the early 1930s I came up with this whole experiment that tested the influence in the environment through conditioning. For example, I can put a rat in this chamber, and then flash the green light. If the rat pushes the lever, it gets food. But if the rat pushes the lever whenever the red light is up, it gets a mild electric shock instead. Over time, the rat learns only to push the lever when the green light is on. So you're talking about behavioral traits, where reward and punishment play a significant role. And this is any type of trait, right? Like aggression or even behaviors. Like, interacting with other people. That's right. Understanding the stimuli is really important if we're going to understand the complex traits and the hereditary and environmental components. If you're interested in learning more about conditioning and B.F. Skinner, check out udacity's Intro to Psychology course. We'll post a link on this page. Although you guys were arguing a lot earlier, it really did seem that your ideas compliment one another in a way that gives us a global perspective on how traits exist and are passed down from generation to generation. Yeah, like Mendel. Your theory does a really good job of explaining how traits skip generations. And, Skinner, I guess you do have a handle on understanding how the environment affects various traits. And I suppose you guys did a pretty good job of explaining the biological components. But, I bet the genome has still many more secrets, that we don't even know. Based on the fabulous work you guys did along with many others, we knew what the hereditary material did, before we even knew what it was. Although DNA, the hereditary material, was first isolated in 1869 It's exact nature was a mystery until 1953 when work by Rosalyn Franklin, Maurice Wilkins, James Watson, and Francis Crick revealed the structure, and began to unravel the secretes of how DNA codes for many of our traits. And we've come a long way since then as well. We've learned how DNA makes up our genomes and codes for many of our traits. And technology's advancing at an ever-increasing pace, allowing people to obtain personal information about their very own DNA. We're in an unique age of genomic information, and this course is going to give you an introductory look at how you can use this information. Genomics is the study of all the hereditary material, or DNA, that makes up who you are. Now, until about a decade ago, it wasn't even possible to look at your whole genome at one time. We were only looking at bits and pieces of your genome, regions we called genes, individually, in a field called genetics. And eventually over time the field of genetics, looking at these individual genes one at a time blossomed into this field of genomics. Now the global picture of genomics is to get a global picture of you. Looking at many genes at one time to see how they shape who you are. Obviously, this is a pretty big task and we could use a little bit of help. We've teamed up with 23andMe, a personal genetics company based in California that aims to connect people with their own genomes. I'd like to introduce to all of you the Senior Director of Research at 23andMe, Joanna Mountain. Thank you, Matt. I'm really excited to be part of Tales from the Genome. Well, we're pretty excited to have you here. I'm curious, is there any trait about yourself that you've always wondered more about what the genetic cause is? I have to say, I was always curious about why I had red hair and freckles and no one else in my family did. And where did that come from? Yeah, how did I get so lucky? [LAUGH] And so that's something that I was curious about for much of my life. And when I was able to look into my DNA, I could start to learn more about who I might have inherited that from, and, and what the genetic basis was for, for that red hair and freckling. Now I'm sure some of you out there have wondered about your own traits, so tell us. What's one trait about yourself that you've always wanted to know a bit more about the genetic basis for? You maybe surprised by some of the traits that you can learn about through your DNA. Those include eye color, hair color and whether you have a preference for sweet or savory foods, how well you metabolize caffeine and whether you are at risk for a disease such as diabetes. And there are a lot of traits that we know a lot of about. And I want you to hold on to the trait that you out in, and as we go through the course, see what you learn about it And if not much is known yet about the trait you have in mind, maybe 23 me can conduct a research with your help to figure out the connection between DNA and your trait. Okay. Now that you've been through the material from Lesson One, let's see if you can complete the concept map that we showed earlier. Remember a concept map is just connecting words to each other using other concepts or words that are relevant to both. For example, a genome is a genetic instructions for traits, and both are influenced by something that belongs in this blank here. What I want you to do is fill in each blank you see in the concept map using words that you find in the word bank over here. If you think you know the correct word for that blank, just take it from the word bank and type it into the box you see in the concept map. In Lesson One we learned that a genome provides genetic instructions for traits and both of these can be influenced by the environment. Genome is actually made of DNA, which we'll learn more about in Lesson Two. The genome is inherited as individual units. We mentioned they're called genes, which we'll learn about in a future lesson. And traits are also inherited. And both traits and genomes are inherited from parents. And from parents, they're passed on to children. Traits can be categorized as either hidden or visible. Physical or behavioral. And innate or learned. There can be many variants of any given trait. And generally, they're separated into 2 categories, as either being preferred or good traits. Or undesired or bad traits. Now obviously these words are relative to each other and they can have different meanings depending on who you ask. Usually we reserve the term undesired or bad only for traits that cause or variance of traits that cause sickness or death. Also remember that traits are inherited and they can skip generations. They can appear undilluted but they can also blend. We've reached the end of lesson one, and we've covered a lot of concepts that can be summarized into four main points. Point one. Every human is a collection of traits. Traits that can be described as either physical or behavioral, visible or hidden, and learned or innate. Point two. Inheritance patterns have been described in many different ways. [INAUDIBLE] Two important ways are blended versus particulate inheritance. With particulate inheritance laying the foundation for modern genetics, and our idea of the individual unit called a gene. Point three. The Environment can play a major role in the presentation of certain traits. And point four. The hereditary material that's passed down from generation to generation is made up of a chemical substance called DNA which comprises what we call our genome. This course is meant to tell the stories our genomes hold for us, both known and unknown. Now, depending on your perspective this can mean different things. The lessons here will cover what genomes are and how they work. We'll learn how genetic information changes over time, and how it's passed down. We'll learn about how some traits are controlled by few genes and other traits are controlled by many genes. Genes. Ultimately, we'll see how we can use genetics to trace our past and see how we're all connected, all the while, we'll be getting first hand accounts about certain traits and learning about the social implications of knowing the genetic information underlying them. By the end of this course, you'll have a solid grasp of genetic information. And how it's organized into a genome and affects a myriad of traits. So get ready for tales from the genome. Hey, Matt. Whatcha doin'? Oh, hey. Not much, just a little light reading, I suppose. Did you start the Game of Thrones series? Well, nothing quite that dense, but I'm reading my genome, actually. Really, what does it say? Some pretty cool stuff here. Actually, I've got blue eyes, apparently. my blood type is O positive. I seem to be able to digest lactose products pretty well. I can't taste bitter flavors. A cup of coffee late at night doesn't bother me, because I metabolize caffeine pretty quickly, and somewhere in here, oh, I actually had a, an increased risk for Alzheimer's. It tells you all of that? I want to see it. Actually, your genome has a lot more information than just what you see here. Your genome can reveal a lot about you. But you have to know how to understand and read the information for it to make any sense. Well, I can't understand that, because that just looks like a bunch of random letters, to me. Well, I guess so, in a sense, that's what your genome is. A unique sequence of letters that has the information to make up who you are. So, you're saying, all of the cells in my body, they're just little letters? Well, I guess so, in a sense. your genome's a unique sequence of letters, much like this book in a unique sequence of letters. But, in our genome, those letters are actually symbols. They represent a very famous chemical substance that you can find inside all your cells, and makes up the foundation of your genome. DNA. We just learned in the last lesson that DNA holds the secret to who we are. It's a very special molecule that has many important functions not least of which, is that it comprises the entirety of our genome. Here's a concept map for lesson 2 that you can also download from the instructor's notes and fill in the blanks. Print it up or just keep it handy and see if you can fill in those empty blanks as we go through the lesson. At the end there will be an opportunity for you to fill in the missing words to see a complete version. Remember if you prefer to have a complete lesson map as you go through the lesson, you can always skip to the end, download it from the [UNKNOWN] notes and then you will have it. However, I highly encourage you to use this incomplete version now. Print it out, fill in the blanks, and then at the end, you'll see how much you've learned. This is the marvelous molecule that makes up our genomes, DNA. I feel like you hear about DNA everywhere. It's true. The DNA name and structure, its visual itself, is something that's come to permeate our culture. You've probably heard references to it in pop culture, movies like Jurassic Park and Gattico, or TV shows like CSI and Bones. I love those shows. [UNKNOWN] I mean I recognize the shape and I hear the name all the time, so Yeah I mean the shape is it's most defining characteristic. In fact, the structure's so well-known people all over the world use it in works of art, design, architecture. But not only is the structure appealing, it's very important in revealing the secrets of how DNA does what it does in our genomes. So if we have any hope of defining what our genome is. We need to go take a look at what DNA is made of, and where its shape comes from. That sounds reasonable. Let's go do that. Here's a simplified model of DNA. I want you to take a look at it, particurally focusing on it structual features. Think of two things that stand out to you and put it in the text box here. Two of the most noted features of DNA are that it's double-stranded and in a spiral, or helical, shape. Thus, we call it the double helix. But for us to understand how DNA does what it does so well, we really need to simplify this model even more. We need to simplify both of these basic features. So, first, we're going to unwind our DNA. And now, we actually want to separate the double stranded DNA into two single strands. And looking at one of these single strands, we can immediately see the basic unit of DNA called the Deoxynucleotide. Deoxynucleotides are just the basic building blocks that make up DNA. In fact, looking at this single strand here, which structure do you think is the deoxynucleotide? Looking at the image here of single stranded DNA, we notice a pattern that appears to make up the overall structure. The region indicated by the arrow represents the basic unit called a deoxynucleotide. Deoxynucleotides are the basic building blocks of DNA. We can string them together to get a single stranded DNA molecule. Although we can keep adding many deoxynucleotides in a row, there are only a limited number of different types of deoxynucleotides. Based on the DNA single strand that you see here. How many different types of deoxynucleotides are here? Enter a number in the text box right here. Okay. If each one of these represents a different deoxynucleotide, then all we have to do, is look at the variable region, here, which is the colored part. And you'll notice that we only see one. Two, three, four different types. We see a blue type, a red type, a green type and a yellow type. So four is the correct answer. Now we know that there are four different kinds of deoxynucleotides in DNA and each one varies in this region here. These colored variable regions are what we call the nitrogenous base. It's called a nitrogenous base because it contains an element from the periodic table called nitrogen, that's what the N represents right here in each of these structures. The reason there are four different types of deoxynucleotides is because there are four different types of nitrogenous bases. The four different chemical structures for nitrogenous bases in DNA are adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine. Sometimes we note the names of these nitrogenous bases or bases in shorthand by using one letter abbreviations. A for adenine. T for thymine. G for guanine. And C for cytosine. Now if we go back up to our strand of DNA and we replace the nitrogenous base, the chemical structure, with the letter that represents each base, we get a very different looking model that's much easier for your eyes to distinguish which type of deoxynucleotide is in each position of the DNA. So now take this new single strand of DNA that has a different sequence or order of deoxynucleotides. See if you can look at this chemical structure of the nitrogenous bases in the single strand of DNA and write the order of the bases in this text box here. Obviously you can use the key here at the bottom of the screen to see which chemical structure corresponds with which letter. When you think you know the right answer go ahead and put the sequence of letters here in text box altogether with no spaces in between the letters. Okay, so if you know how to appropriately interpret the code down here and compare the structure and the letter to what you see in the order here, you should've gotten C or cytosene, T or thymine. C again for cytocene and T again for thymine. A for adenine. G for guanine, T for thiamine, G guanine again, and another guanine, an A for adenine, and the last would be C, for cytosine. So we would have in order of CTCTAGTGGAC. These 4 letters of DNA represent the alphabet of your genetic code, C, T, A, and G. But every time we use these 4 letters in our DNA, they really represent a specific chemical structure coded here in the nitrogenous base. Put together in sequence, many deoxynucleotides. These individual nitrogenous bases are part of deoxynucleotides that build up what we call deoxyribonucleic acid. Now, that name can seem complicated, but it's really intended just to describe the chemistry of the molecule. You can see the chemistry actually here. I've written out The organic chemistry structure of this same sequence of deoxynucleotides, where you can see each position there's an atom; nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorous. These are elements in the periodic table. This is chemistry that makes up our biology of who we are. The name deoxyribonucleic acid is simply a useful term to describe this chemistry. Take this individual nucleotide here, that has a nitrogenous base adenine attached. Now there are four parts to the title deoxyribonucleic acid. First there's the deoxy part. Next, there's the ribo- part, then there's the nucleic- part, and then there's the acid part. Each of these four parts of deoxyribonucleic acid describe a specific part of this chemistry. For example, this part of the molecule here, called a phosphate group, can actually be acidic under certain conditions. This part of the molecule here is called a ribose sugar. I don't know if you know this or not, but sugars are also molecules. This part of the sugar right here, is actually missing an oxygen atom. An then I tried in the space structure we've already mentioned, contains nitrogen. What I want you to tell me is which number, from DNA or Deoxyribonucleic Acid is shown here. Describes which part of the chemistry of the deoxynucleotide. Now, this could be a little tricky if you don't have a chemistry background, but I've tried to lay it out in such a way that makes it pretty straightforward for you to identify. So if you have trouble, just go ahead and take a guess, and see if you can get it right. Put a number into each text box that you see here. Okay, hopefully you didn't find that too hard. Let's take the name in order. Deoxy here deoxy, what do you think that means? Is probably missing an oxygen. So the deoxy part of a name for DNA describes this part of the chemistry. The next part, ribo, indicates that there's a ribose sugar as part of the deoxy nucleotide. This is the sugar molecule called a ribose sugar. So that's what the ribo represents in the name. Nucleic was probably the toughest one if you couldn't figure it out. Actually represents the nitrogenous base here or the nucleic acid. This means that it's found in the nucleus. And then the last bit, actually over here, the acid Is an artifact from this, what we call a phosphate group right here. Under some conditions when DNA was first isolated, it actually had acidic properties, and it is because of the nature of this group right here. So you can see that the name, deoxyribonucleic acid, which is the long form for the abbreviation DNA Actually, it's just describing the chemistry of missing an oxygen, being part of a ribose sugar, containing a nitrogenous base, that can be found in the nucleus. And, also containing a group that can be acidic under certain conditions. DNA, the basic molecule of life, is all about chemistry. Although the structural differences between the base letters may look small to you, in the chemistry world, it does make a really big difference. These differences are what essentially dictate which other chemicals can interact with. For example, DNA is most commonly double-stranded. It's double-stranded because each base letter can form a chemical pair with another letter across from it. In fact we call this basepairing and it follows very specific rules. In fact see if you can look a the image here and determine what those basepairing rules are. Look at the text boxes below, and enter in which base letter can partner with the other. By looking at the single-stranded image here, hopefully you were able to determine that A pairs with T, and T pairs with A, and C pairs with G, and G pairs with C. The basic pairing rules of DNA, A to T and C to G, are determined by the chemistry of these nitrogenous bases. In the DNA world, a single strand of DNA can have any sequence that it wants, any order of deoxynucleotides with any order of nitrogenous bases. But a double-stranded DNA must have a complementary strand or pair opposite to it that has the right matching nitrogenous base across from it. A complementary strand of DNA is just a DNA strand that base pairs with another. So for example, this strand on the left has a complementary strand across from it and the DNA strand here has a complementary strand across from it. We either refer to this as a complementary strand or just a complement. What I want you to do now is see if you can figure out which of the four single-stranded molecules of DNA would base pair or complement with this single stranded DNA here at the bottom of the screen. Just imagine that you could take this sequence of letters and place it right on top of this DNA molecule here. Go ahead and select the answer that you think is best and remember if you need help you can just use the base pairing rules in the right hand corner of your screen. So let's see if we can figure out the answer here. Hopefully the first thing you did was try to figure out what the sequence of letters is here at our bottom strand. The first one is A, or adenine. The next one is guanine or G. Then G, A, T, C, G, A, and T. Now, if we follow our base pairing rules over here on the right. We'd see that A pairs with T, G pairs with C, G with C, T, A, G, C, T, A. And the only answer that fits with that is this third anser right here, TCCTAGCTA. The other answers wouldn't match in every place. The first answer would pair right away T with A. But, the second letter G doesn't pair with G. It needs to be a C, so that doesn't work. C can't be the first position, as we can see here in the second answer. And the fourth answer starts with an A, not a T, and A doesn't pair with an A. So hopefully, you can use the base pairing rules and figure out what the complement should always be of a single stranded molecule of DNA. One of my college professors really liked to say that DNA, and life in general, is really just organic chemistry that crawls. I like that analogy, but once we start talking about chemistry is DNA, it's just a little out of my league Matt. Yeah, it's true. The, the details in chemistry can be a little complex, especially if you don't have the chemistry background. and really those details are out of the scope of our course, so what we're going to do is replace the chemistry with symbols, or our letters, to make things easier. I mean, I like it. It does seem a little easier. And just looking at the letters, I think I can see a pattern. Oh, what kind of pattern do you think you see? Well, if I look at one side I think I can judge the letters that are going to be in the other, right? Yeah, that's actually really good and important. Sometimes when we discover a new genome, and we don't know much about it yet, we want to know what it's made of. Being able to count the number of Adenines, Thymines, Guanines, Cytosines, the As, Ts, Gs and Cs, the letters of DNA, can actually give us information. About how many genes might be in that genome. So take a look at this strand here. Now, if I don't give you the other side can you tell me what percentage of the whole DNA structure is guanines or Gs? Now this can get a little tricky so if you get stuck take a look at the base pairing rules. And the answer is 30% guanine. Now, the easiest way to figure out this answer would be to take our single strand of DNA and fill in the other side. Once we've filled in the other side, we want to count the number of guanines, or G's, that we see. Lamarn, how many guanines do you see? Six. Six, exactly. We have six G's. now we won introduce take the number 1in 6 divider by the two number you seedemonstrate the 10 one side and 10 one other side in 6/20 is very preserved preserved the looking inside Let's put our question marks back where they were before, and just look at the first strand of 10 letters. Now you see here, we could just count the number of guanines, and how many guanines do you see here, Lauren? 2. 2. 2 guanines total out of, well, how many letters? Well we could just look at the one strand, 10 letters. And 2 out of 10 is only 20%. And we know that's not right, because Lauren already told us the answer's 30%. But we can't just add the other strand, because that would be 20 letters, and 2 out of 20 is only 10%. So we need some more information. What else are we missing here? Well, could we use the pairs of cytosine and guanine? Because you said that Gs and Cs pair together, right? Exactly. So if you just look at our single strand here, we know everywhere there's a cytosine on this side, there's a guanine on the other side. So let's count the number of cytosines we see in our one strand here. How many cytosines are here, Lauren? Four. Four cytosines. So four cytosines means we have four guanines in the other side, and if we count the two guanines from this side, 2 plus 4 is 6, and 6 divided by the total number of letters which is 20 gives us 30%. 30% For the rest of the course, we're only going to be using these letters over here, which are the symbols of the DNA code. But never forget that what we're actually working with here is chemistry, because chemistry is the heart of this biology, one really useful phrase to remember as we continue in this course is that structure is Function. And, what we mean by that, is if we change one letter, or one nitrogenous base pair, then that means the structure, the chemical structure, has changed at that nitrogenous base pair. So, although you just see a letter difference, the chemistry has changed. And in the chemical world, molecules interact based on whether their structures let them. If the structure changes, then so can the function. In reality, other molecules are actually able to come and interact with the chemistry of the DNA here. We consider that reading the base pairs. So even though we're just symbolizing them with letters, the molecular chemistry is actually interacting. So if a letter in the DNA changes then the structure changes and there's going to be a change in what other molecules can interact and the overall function can change. A DNA sequence is just a string of DNA letters in consecutive order. So for example, over here on the left. Even though this is double stranded DNA molecule, the DNA sequence is only read from one strand at a time. We would read either G, A, C, G, T, C, A, C, T, C, or C, T, G, C, A, G, T, G, A, G. The important thing to note is that, because of the base pairing rules of DNA, if you know the sequence of one strand, Then we should already know the sequence of the complementary strand. So if you just have the sequence on the left, you would know that it pairs with C, T, G, C. A G T G A G. And this is really useful for us in genetics. From now on, instead of writing out double-stranded DNA sequences, we'll write out single-stranded sequences to keep things simple. When you see a string of DNA letters like this We'll refer to this as a DNA sequence. The human genome is made up of many sequences of letters of DNA that make us unique. In double stranded form, theoretically, we could count all the base pairs of the entire human genome. In fact, if you had to guess, how many base pairs do you think it takes to store all the information necessary to make an entire human being? Now obviously, I don't expect you to get this answer right if you don't know it, but go ahead and give it your best shot. Even taking a wild guess can help your brain to process the information so that when we finally do learn exactly how many base pairs it takes, it will be that much more meaningful. So at the beginning of this lesson I joked with Matt that he was reading the first book in the Game of Thrones series. But imagine that this book instead was filled with the entire human genome sequence. Wow I know that's a lot of letters, but so is the first book in the Game of Thrones series. I think it has like 300,000 words in it. Well, let's say on average each word has about five letters give or take. Okay. And the human genome sequence has 3 billion letters. How many books do you think it would take to fill the entire 3 billion letter human genome sequence? Just one genome. Now don't worry if you don't know the exact math or the exact number, but give me an estimate. So if there's about 300,000 words, and each word has about five letters, that's going to give us 1.5 Million letters per book. If we divide that into the 3 Billion letters of the human genome, that's going to give us like, 2,000 books. That's a lot of books. There are over 3 Billion base pairs in just 1 copy of the human genome. That's such a huge number, it, its hard for humans to conceive of such a big number in isolation. So let's put it in a little more context. If you were to run the sequence of the human genome across this very screen at the rate of about 15 letters per second It would take over six years for you to read the whole thing just one time. No bathroom breaks, no eating, no sleeping, just reading the sequence for over six years. I'm Uta Francke, I'm a human geneticist originally from Germany as you can hear. And I'm Emeritus Professor here at Stanford and also Senior Medical Director at 23 and Me. You know there were early estimates of the size of the genome simply by the, measuring the amount of DNA in a cell. People could do that a long time ago. And so the estimate was in that range of 3 billion base pairs, but the idea to actually sequence it was, came up in the mid 80s when capillary sequencing was developed, and many people thought it was a absolutely crazy idea because it's so huge, so much information. The other thing to know about the Human Genome Project, when it finally got started around 1990, the first five years were devoted to just mapping the chromosomes. You know, people heard about chromosomes, and we know that DNA runs in chromosomes from one end to another, so it would make sense, logical sense to start sequencing at one end and then go through. But instead what people did they made maps of the chromosomes. And then you could focus in on specific regions and do the sequencing there. And also to find genes that are located in specific chromosomal regions. I see. So instead of having to, sort of like you say, sequence from one end to the other you could have many starting places in the middle of a chromosome and read out from there? Right. And you could relate the sequence to the chromosomal features because chromosomes when they are treated with a certain agents display banding patterns that are very unique. Therefore we can identify each chromosome individually. Which is something you cannot do when they are uniformly stained. And also we can see within each chromosome there are certain regions. And now we can find out in which region certain genes are located. And all of this physical mapping as it's called, was done before the sequencing even started. So what happened when the sequencing project started? You mentioned it was an international collaboration Was this really countries all over the world or were they more from one region or another? Well they were countries who had developed infrastructure to take on such a big project. And in Europe it was predominantly the U.K., France, and Germany, and Canada was a player, as well as Japan and China. And all of these people got together under the chairmanship, so to say, of Francis Collins, who is now the director of the NIH. He was organizing this big international thing. And made sure there wasn't too much waste and duplication. They were dividing up the chromosome. Sarka, you do chromosome 21. Okay, that's where we are focusing on. And then they had regular meetings, they exchanged information. All the results were immediately shared and put online, and therefore because of this international effort. this led to success. Where are we now with sequencing the human genome or many human genomes? Are we multiple drafts beyond and are we reaching out to many people. The international effort had many different people involved. So the genome is a composite of sequences of many individuals. And that's called the reference genome. But what you really want to know is, what is different between the genomes of different people who live in different parts of the world. And that was the next effort, and to really sequence individuals with known ethnic background and find out what are the variations between humans, and that's when it really became interesting, and that took another ten years to become really useful to have that information. What does the size of the genome mean? Does it mean anything at all? Well, there were some organisms with huge genomes, like the salamanders, you know? And what is all that sequence? It probably has no informational content. Sometimes genomes get big because viruses get in, and they replicate, they make copies of themselves, and that has no useful function. So there was only a smaller part of the genome that is really important because it has function and this is something we are still working on, unraveling the functions. You also mentioned repetitive DNA when you were talking about some of, I guess the historical context of the genome and even once we sequence it if anyone does any research on their own, they might find that there is a still lot of repetitive region. What do we know about those in the genome? In most of them are just remnants, I mean there were copies made of some early viral intruder and now they are degenerated that bits and pieces of them, but there are still some active copies and what they can do, they can still make copies of themselves. And they can jump around, and insert somewhere else in the genome, and actually cause problems. They can cause disease, by inserting into an important protein coding gene. So, we are not done with dealing with all of these repetitive sequences. They're still changing. And that means there was huge variability from one person to another as well. I think that's an amazing concept too, to think about our genomes. We sort of them as, okay, we have this static genome. Right. And it may interact with itself to create a protein or regulation, but the genome itself is changing even today, like you said Quite Moving elements. It's still evolving. Now that you've learned a bit about what a genome is made of, and how big the human genome is, I want us to start thinking about the human genome in context of other living organisms. I want you to tell me, which species do you think has the biggest genome. Is it Bufo bufo, the toad frog? Homo Sapiens, or modern humans, us? Amoeba dubia, a single-celled organism, or is it gallus gallus, the chicken? Remember that all living things have genetic material that make up their own genomes, but not every animal's genome is the exact same size. The human genome has 3 billion base pairs and one copy. But how do you think it compares to these other three organisms up here? Now don't worry if you don't get this right. Just take a guess, I just want you to think about which other species, you think might have more or less DNA in their genome compared to humans. So, go ahead and pick what you think best answers this question, which species has the biggest genome? Believe it or not, this single-celled organism, Amoeba dubia, has the biggest genome. An amoeba, a single-celled organism, has more than 66 times more DNA in its genome than one copy of the human genome. While an amoeba has close to 200 billion base pairs of DNA in one copy of its genome, a human genome only has 3 billion base pairs. So hopefully you can see from this, that it's not the amount of DNA that makes a species complex, otherwise the amoeba would be the most complex organism of all. Instead, it matters what the specific sequence of those letters in your DNA are. Another way to look at the size of human genome instead of just counting the number of letters it has, is to think about it in physical size. Remember that's three billion base pairs that takes up space, but how much space? Well, let's imagine that a base pair is about the size of a light bulb. Okay. A light bulb is about 13 cm from tip to tip. And let's imagine that like our base pairs we could stack our light bulbs end to end, thirteen centimeters long each. If we had three billion, we could get past the moon over 390,000 kilometers. That's a lot but, let's get serious, Matt. This is a lot bigger than a base pair. Isn't a base pair only about. 34 nanometers? This is true. . 34 nanometers is actually very small, much smaller than a lightbulb. But at three billion base pairs, three billion times 0.34 nanometers is a billion nanometers and a billion nanometers is exactly one meter long. Look at that. Well, that's really long in the actual length. That's more than half of me. I know, and actual length this is what actually what has to fit inside your cell, but not just this. You have one copy from Mom and you have another copy from Dad. You have two copies of the human genome in every cell in your body. This together is over two meters of DNA. That's taller than I am. Wow. In every cell in your body, you have almost 2 meters worth of DNA that fits inside the nucleus. Cells are very small, they're not measured in meters, they're measured in micrometers. So how in the world, is 2 meters of DNA going to fit into such a small space. I want you to think about this question, how does so much DNA fit into such small space? And I want you to write any ideas that you have in this text box here. Don't worry about getting this question right or wrong. I really just want you to think about how so much DNA can fit, and write your ideas in this text box here. So for all that DNA to fit in a cell, the two main ways to it's organized are first by compaction, meaning organization by proteins called histones. Let's zoom out a bit on our DNA strand and imagine our double stranded DNA is just this one purple line. The first order of organization is that DNA is going to wrap around these histone proteins. Much like you might wrap string in a spool and you can see that it just wraps around and around and around. And this allows for some basic organization, in the same way that loose string in a drawer or your pocket has a tendency to get tangled. If you wrap it around an object to keep it steady Then it can't get tangled as easily, and that's the same principle that's going on here for organization. The second way DNA is organized to fit inside a cell is that it's split into units called chromosomes, which are large collections of this histone-wrapped DNA. You've probably seen pictures of chromosomes before. They're usually these long, large, linear pieces of DNA in histones called chromatin. If you're not sure if you've seen a chromsone, then you've probably seen something that looks like this, like an X. This is also considered a chromosone. And both of these sturcutres are just this compacted DNA wrapped around histones. Such that we could zoom in on the chromosome here. Just a very small region, and this is what we would see. And teh same that if we zoomed in here, on the DNA strand, this is what we would see here, teh edoubl helix. Like string on a spool, DNA can be wrapped onto these important proteins called histones, taking on a shape that's known as beads on a string. Here's an example of a real electron microscopy picture taken of this DNA beads on a string structure. Just like you can see in the cartoon up here wrapped around these Histome proteins is the DNA and down here in the actual real life picture you can see the little circular Histome proteins and their connected by a string in between them because the DNA is wrapped around them. And then on to the next system, and on to the next one, and on to the next one. This wrapping and folding, leads to an intermediate form of organized DNA called the 30 nanometer fiber and its name as you can imagine, based on its size. The width of this is actually about 30 nanometers. . Now that's still small obviously Now the folding doesn't stop here. The 30nm fiber will actually start folding on itself here in a minute, and that's what organizes into the really big structure that we're used to seeing, called a chromosome. So another way of looking at this is our double-stranded DNA here, in our most zoomed-in picture. Is actually wrapped around these histone proteins in the 30 nanometer fiber structure. We actually call the combination of DNA wrapped around histones, we call that chromatin. And then chromatin is organized into structures called chromosomes. Chromosomes are actually organized chromatin, and you have multiple chromosomes in the cells in your body. It's really hard to see three billion letters stretched out and running across the screen or in books, but you can very easily see all the DNA packed into a cell, because it's organized into these neat structures called chromosomes. This is a picture actual chromosomes from a cell that was dividing. Inside each cell you have a total human genome inside, and it's organized into chromatin, which is organized even further into these chromosomes structures that you see here. Now I want you to see if you can do, is tell me how many chromosomes do you think you see here? See if you can count the total number of chromosomes and enter that number into the box here. If you have trouble counting, don't get frustrated. Just move on to the solution video. So if you're really good at counting or, I guess just careful with counting, then you should've arrived at 46 chromosomes and you should've been able to get that answer by looking at these chromosome structures which are just these x shapes and there should be a grand total of 46 chromosomes. Now even scientists have a hard time counting chromosomes that are just disorganized like this. We know now that there are 46 chromosomes in here somewhere, but obviously trying to see which one is which can be difficult. So what we want to do is what scientists do, which is try to find them and line them up in order of biggest to smallest. And I'm actually going to give you a little taste of that here. And I'm actually going to try to organize them by literally cutting and pasting them one-by-one. [NOISE] Okay, so this was my very amateur job at trying to organize these chromosomes in order, from biggest to smallest. You can see it, there's some imperfections here. I probably didn't get it right, because this isn't my job. This isn't something I do on a regular basis. Well let's take a look at how scientists actually would put them in a row. Okay, so, here's what it looks like if a professional scientist, who works with chromosomes and knows what they're doing here, if they cut and paste them and organize them. they'll get ordered in this way. So i want you to pay really close attention to all the chromosomes that you see here and see if there's any kind of pattern that stands out to you. What I want you to tell me is if you see nay pattern that stands out in all of these chromosomes when they're ordered in this fashion from biggest to smallest. Try to think of an answer, one or two word response if possible, and put it in the text box here. Don't worry so much about getting this question right or wrong. Just try to look for any pattern that you see, and then put it in the text box here. So one of the other important things to notice about this pairing that we see after lining the chromosomes up, is that we have two copies, because we get one from Mom and one from Dad. So if we look in each pair here, one of the copies of this pair of chromosomes came from Mom and one came from Dad. And the same is true for the next pair, and the next pair, and the next pair, right on down the line. Obviously at this point it's important for us to have some kind of naming system so we know which chromosome is which. We actually number the chromosomes in order from biggest to smallest. So that the biggest chromosome pair, they're both called chromosome one. And then chromosome two, chromosome three, four, five, and six, and right on down the line. So in this case, if I say" Hey, let's look somewhere at chromosome 13," I know immediately that I'm interested in that pair right there. Or, if I'm interested in chromosome, let's say eight. I know to look right there. But there's actually something missing right here. And I don't know if you noticed it yet, but look really closely, something is not right about our line up. So what's wrong with this picture here, take a look and see if you can figure out what it is, and then type whatever answer you think it is into the text box. I'll give you one hint There's something missing. So see if you can figure out what it is and write it in this text box here. What's wrong with this picture is that we're missing a whole extra pair of chromosomes. If you remember a couple exercises ago, we said that there are 46 chromosomes total. Well, here, if each pair has two chromosomes, and we go up to pair 22, 22 times 2 is 44. But we know that there should be 46 chromosomes, so where is the 23rd pair? OK, I've been a bit tricky in the last couple of exercises because when I organized all of the chromosomes from biggest to smallest, I left out a pair. I left out the very last pair, because as you noticed there is something very unique about them. They don't match in size in the pair the way all the other chromosomes do. In fact, they're so different, and they're important for a very different reason, that they're not numbered like the other chromosomes. It's the 23rd pair. But each chromosome, because it's unique from the other, has its own name. We call the bigger chromosome the x chromosome, and the smaller chromosome the y chromosome. Together we call these chromosomes the sex chromosomes. All of the rest of the chromosomes are call autosomes and the reason we make a distinct is because the sex chromosomes X and Y determine the sex of an individual. What we mean by sex is whether or not the individual has male reproductive organs or female reproductive organs. And there's a very interesting story, as to why the Y chromosome is so much smaller than the X chromosome and they don't match. The story is awesomely amazing, but it's really outside the scope of our course, so if you're interested you should go search for more about it on your own. The key point here is that the y chromosome triggers male development. So if you have a y chromosome, you're most likely going to develop as a male. Without a y chromosome, ultimately, the individual will develop as a female. Now I want you to tell me. Using this set of chromosomes that you see right here. If this was an individual's genome, what sex would most likely develop from this set of chromosomes? Would you expect to get a male or a female? Using this set of chromosomes, we would expect a female to develop. If we look just at the sex chromosome pair here, we see that we have two x's. And two x's means that we don't have a y. A y is what triggers male development, so in the absence of the y chromosome, it means that we're going to get female development. In humans, all females are genetically xx. They have two x chromosomes. And all males are genetically xy. They have 1 x and 1 y chromosome. Now, there's no yy combination that exists in reality. And it's for two main reasons. The first is that you only have two parents, a male and a female. So you have someone XX and someone XY. So there's only one Y to pass down to the next generation anyways. So, getting a second Y just really isn't even possible, normally speaking. And the second reason is that the Y chromosome is a lot smaller than the X. There's actually a lot of important information that's on the X chromosome here that's not on the Y, and without that information, a human without an X chromosome can't survive. So you always need at least one X chromosome, and although there are actually variations on this theme here. The only two real combinations that we'll talk about are the XX combination, which develop as females, and the XY combination, which develop as males. Okay, before things get too complicated, it's time we clear up something that could cause use trouble later, and may be causing some of you some stress, if you have any experience with chromosomes before. This picture that you saw earlier is, in fact, a real picture of human chromosomes from a cell. Let's focus in on this pair of chromosomes here. They sort of look like big Xs don't they. I were to draw them in cartoon form, this is how I would probably try to represent them. And although this is an accurate representation of what you see here, in reality this type of chromosome is called a duplicated chromosome. It's called a duplicated chromosome, because each side of the X is actually identical to the other side. And we refer to each of these sides as chromatids. In fact, because they're so identical, we refer to them as sister chromatids. This chromosome over here also has sister chromatids. So we have one pair of chromosomes, one pair of Xs, and they each are composed of sister chromatids, which are duplicated strands of each other. However, most of the time, chromosomes look like this instead. They don't look like an X. They're just one, linear molecule. We call this a non-duplicated chromosome. This is what the pair typically looks like in a cell. Remember, linear chromosomes are just double-stranded DNA in one really long molecule, wrapped up in histones proteins, into a higher order structure that looks like the chromosome we're used to seeing. But after duplication, the double-stranded DNA is now copied and now there are two copies, two double-stranded molecules of DNA. And they're joined together in the middle here. And this is what makes them look like these big Xs over here. And because they're genetically identical We call these sister chromatids here, within this X. That's what the sister chromatids are. But we still call the linear non-duplicated chromosome a chromosome, and we call the duplicated version with sister chromatids a chromosome. It's still a chromosome structure. The reason most pictures you've seen of chromosomes look like this is because this is when they're most condensed and easy to see. As you can imagine, DNA is like a big loose string that's really long inside a cell, and it's normally sort of loosey-goosey hanging out, but when a cell divides, it has to organize and get everything together and choreograph to separate And so it condenses into these beautiful organized structures that make it easy for us to see. So a scientist will wait until a cell gets to this point, and then it opens the cell up to see the chromosome. And because we're at this stage, after the DNA's been duplicated, they look Like this x structure. But they can also look like this non x or just linear structure. Now, I want you to tell me. Of the following 4 groupings of chromosomes. Which of the following represents 4 chromosomes? Either duplicated or non duplicated. Pick which ones represent 4 chromosomes. There can be multiple answers, or there may not, so I want you to check all the boxes that you think apply. Okay, the scenarios that represent 4 chromosomes are the top left and the bottom left. Now if you think about why that is, we can see these are 4 duplicated chromosomes, 1, 2, 3 and 4. And down here we have 4 non duplicated chromosomes. In the top right, we actually have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 non-duplicated chromosomes. And we have only 2 duplicated chromosomes. So if we were to just count the ends, the tips, right, overall. We can't get the answer we want. You actually have to look at the structure, and see is it an X or is it a linear chromosome. And remember that the word chromosome is used the same whether it's a duplicated or non duplicated chromosome. Zoomed down to the chromosomal level, I hope you have a new appreciation for what the human genome really is. We've zoomed all the way in and looked at double-stranded DNA, naked by itself. But inside a cell, DNA is almost always wrapped around histone proteins and organized into a higher order structure called a chromosome. And chromosomes are pretty much what we've been dealing with for the last couple of exercises. Okay. Now, let me try if I have this right. Okay. My genome, that's inside of one of my cells is made up of 2 copies of 3 Billion base pairs of letters? That are organized into 23 pairs of chromosomes? That's exactly right. Almost. I thought I had it. You did, but I've left out one tiny detail. Actually there's more DNA than just the 23 pairs of chromosomes in the nucleus. There's a little bit of DNA, actually outside in the cytoplasm of the cell, inside another organelle and scientists have figured out that this organelle that has its own DNA. Used to be its own free-living bacteria. Okay, but what's an organelle again? Well, an organelle is just kind of like an organ for a cell. They're membrane-bound structures that perform particular functions inside a cell. So take a look at this picture of a cell here. What I want to see if you can do is look this picture and pick out which organelle you think has its own set of DNA. Now, this could be a little difficult if you don't have a background or know wher to look, but remember that this organelle used to be it's own free living bacteria. And, bacteria look like this. So, do you best and see if you can figure out which organelle has it's own DNA. I would guess mitochondria based on how it looks. It looks a lot like a bacteria. That's exactly right. Mitochondria, or the singular, mitochondrian, has its own DNA because it used to be a free living bacteria. Mitochondria perform a really important function inside cells. They produce boatloads of energy in the form of a molecule called ATP, or adenosine triphosphate. Without mitochondria, life as we know it just wouldn't be possible. Now, a cell can have many mitochondria at a time. Ranging from a few to several thousand. And each mitochodria has its own mitochondrial DNA. Mitochodrial DNA exists in the form of a chromosome just like our nuclear chromosomes, but our chromosome here isn't linear, it's circular. One circular chromosome in the mitochondrial genome has only 17,000 base pairs. Remember all the linear chromosomes of the nuclear genome have more than 3 billion base pairs. The fact that mitochondria have their own mitochondrial DNA in the form of circular chromosomes, is evidence that supports a model claiming that mitochondria used to be free living bacteria that were engulfed by an ancestral cell and incorporated into our cells and thus our bodies, in an essential way. So if we think about our nuclear chromosomes, and our mitochondrial chromosomes, that includes everything that you see here in this picture. All of this is the total cellular genome, for the total human genome. Now when I say the total human genome in this case, I'm not referring to any individual human in particular. I'm just referencing The constituent parts, or chromosomes, that all play a role in making a human. For example, we know that chromosome one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, alright, all the way down to the chromosome 22 and the sex chromosomes and the mitochondrial chromosome is important in making a human. Now for just a moment, don't count extra copies of chromosomes. I want you to tell me how many unique chromosomes are there in the total cellular genome. Remember, I don't want you to count extra copies of chromosomes. I want you to tell me how many unique chromosomes are there? It can be a little tricky, so think about it before you answer. And I want you to put your answer in number form in this text box here. The answer to this question is 25, unique chromosomes in the total cellular genome. What I wanted you to do was look at our nuclear mitochondrial chromosomes, take the first pair, we don't want the extra copy, right, there are two copies in this pair. We just going to count that one as a unique chromosome. It's unique. It's different from all the other chromosomes. And the same thing for the second pair. We're not going to count the copy, this is two. Third, three. Four, all the way till we get to 20, 21, 22. And our last pair, the 23rd pair, though. We're going to count each chromosome by itself, because they're not the same. The X and Y are different. So, chromosome, there's a 23rd unique one and a 24th unique one. And then, if we include the mitochondrial chromosome, that's 25 unique chromosomes. Remember, you have one extra copy of every other autosome in your genome at any given time in the cell and there are many mitochonria and thus many mitochondrial chromosomes in a cell at any given moment. But when we talk about the total cellular genome, how many unique chromosomes there are There are a total of 25 when we leave out the extra copies. So your body is made up of trillions of cells, and each cell has its own copy of the human genome. So wait, you're saying that my body has trillions of my genome, not just one? Exactly. Your body is made up of trillions of cells, and because each one has its own copy, you've got trillions of copies. It's what makes cells different. They each read a slightly different A portion of the instructions. For example a skin cell is a skin cell, and not a stomach cell, because it's reading the skin chapter parts. And the stomach cell is a stomach cell, not a blood cell, because it's reading the stomach cell parts. And the blood cell is a blood cell because it reads the blood cell parts. You get the idea. So all my different traits, that make me me, you're saying it's because my cells are reading different parts of this to make Me, me? Exactly. These traits at an organismal level, at a whole body level, are because different cells make up tissues, the tissues are organized into organs, organs are organized into your whole body. And then, we see a myriad of traits. It's crazy how the body works. It is pretty amazing. So think it's about time we wrapped up this lesson pretty soon? So I want you to try answering one really tough question. I want you to tell me in your own words, what is the human genome? I want you to be clear, succinct, but comprehensive, pulling on the information you've seen so far in the exercises in these lessons. Use words like chromosome, base pair, mitochondria, anything that you think you need to answer that question. And save your answer because we're going to come back to it in a future video. So there are several correct ways you could have answered this question and what I've done is given you four different levels of answers that could have fit. And they're all sort of ranked in order of being an OK answer to really what would be the most comprehensive and best answer based on the material that you've been presented with here. So I want to read them to you and see what you think. an okay answer would have just said the human genome is made of DNA, right. And you just sort of remember one, you know, very important point but, you know, didn't say anything else. A good answer would have said that the human genome is 23 pairs of nuclear chromosomes, right. We know that they're in the nucelus, and we know that we also have a mitochondrial chromosome and that They're all made of DNA. A better answer would have said that we have to copies of over 3 billion base pairs of DNA, and it's organized into 23 pairs of chromosomes. And we have the nuclear genome, and then we have the mitochondrial genome. The best possible answer would've said that we've got two copies of over three billion base pairs of DNA. To organize by histone proteins into 23 pairs of linear chromosomes, 22 are autosomes, and we have a single pair of sex chromosomes. That's in the nuclear genome. And we have one copy from each parent. And then of course we have 17,000 basepairs From a circular mitochondrial chromosome found in every mitochondrion, we have many per cell. So this would be the most comprehensive or exhaustive answer. Okay, what I want you to do is to actually look back at the answer, your response for this question. And see how it compares to the four you see here. And then I want you to rank your response here on the left. So, if you rank right here with this first answer, I want you to check the box that says OK. If you're think you're somewhere in between these two answers, the first and the second, then you can check the box in between them. If you think your answer is more similar to the second one then click the box for good. And I want you to look at each of these and think about where your answer, your response best fits, and then check the box that's most appropriate. Okay. Now that you've been through the material for all of lesson two, I want to see if you can complete the concept map that we showed you at the beginning of the lesson. Feel free to use the word bank that you see here on the right. Take each word and place it into one text box by typing it in. Okay. Let's see how you did with the concept map. We know that there are two copies of the human genome in every cell, and cells make up tissues, which make up organs, which make up the body. Cells, tissues, organs, and the body together Manifest traits, which are influenced by the human genome. And we learned a bit about traits in lesson one. So the human genome resides in the cell, and it can be divided into the nuclear genome and the mitochondrial genome. The mitochondrial genome has one circular chromosome per mitochondria, and there are many mitochondria per cell. Now the nuclear genome there's only one nucleus and one nuclear genome per cell. But each nuclear genome contains 23 pairs of linear chromosomes, 22 pairs are called the autosomes. They're numbered based on their size from 1-22. One being the biggest and 22 being the smallest. But one pair of the 23 pairs of chromosomes are called sex chromosomes. And these determine the sex of the individual. Two X chromosomes will develop as a female, and then X and Y chromosome will develop as a male. All chromosomes in a cell are made of nucleic acid wrapped around histone proteins. Now there are two different types of nucleic acid, and one of them, DNA, is what makes up chromosomes. The other type, RNA, we'll learn more about in lesson three. DNA is composed of deoxynucleotides. There are four different types of deoxynucleotides that all differ in which nitrogenous base they contain. There's adenine, or A, which can base pair with thymine, or T. And cytosine, or C, can base pair with guanine, or G. Now DNA is double-stranded and comes in a helical shape. But the double-stranded nature of DNA is held together by base pairs. Which are formed by the nitrogenous bases. And one human genome, one copy, is made of 3 billion base pairs of DNA. In this lesson we learned some new concepts, that can be summarized into five main points. Point one, our genomes hold information, and are made of a basic molecule called DNA. Point two, the basic building blocks of DNA are four different types of deoxynucleotides, called adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine, or A, T, G and C. Point three: Long molecules of DNA are organized around histone proteins into individual structures called chromosomes. Point four: 3 billion base pairs of DNA are organized into 22 pairs of autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes that can be found in the nucleus. And point five, the total human genome is composed of elements from our nuclear and mitochondrial chromosomes. So now we know a little bit more about where these letters come from and how they're organized, it's time to learn how they make up the code to build a human. Great. I think you're ready for the next lesson, where we're going to learn how the information from this human genome is actually transcribed and translated into the proteins that make up who we are. See you next lesson. In the last lesson, we learned how our genomes are made of a chemical substance called DNA, which holds all the information we need to make up who we are. And in this lesson, we're going to talk about our cells transform genetic information into our flesh and blood. Quite literally, in fact. We're going to focus on a process that's referred to in biology as the central dogma. Central, because it's true for virtually all life. The processes of transcription and translation. Which will turn our DNA genetic code into the protein of who we are. And to do this, we're going to focus on the trait of blood type. So you're talking about, like, A, B, A positive, [INAUDIBLE]. Exactly. You probably heard of these blood types before. They're referred to as the ABO blood types. And there are pretty important to know, especially if you are in the doctor's office. That's true. In fact, over 15 million people per year had donated blood in the US alone, and over 5 million people per year received blood transfusions. So knowing your blood type can help save your life or the life of someone else. It's actually a lot of people [UNKNOWN], some of you might even know your blood type, and so we want you to tell us if you know it. Are you type A, B, AB, or O? And if you know about your positive or negative factor, don't worry about that for right now. Quick, this woman needs a blood transfusion. Why what happened? She was in a car accident and she's lost a lot of blood and she may not survive if she doesn't get a transfusion soon. Oh, okay, well what's her blood type? Well we don't know, we need find out. Knowing a person's blood type can be really important. If you give somebody the wrong blood type their immune system can mount a response and actually cause you harm. So how does the body know it's the wrong blood type? Well, your immune system does a really good job at recognizing self versus non self, and it does this because when you're growing up it knows the blood type that you're growing up with because that's what it's exposed to. And so when it sees a blood type that it doesn't recognize it knows it doesn't belong there and it tries to attack it. Sounds really important, no wonder there's so many tests you can take to tell what your blood type is. Right in the clinic that's very true, but what's really cool is your genome reveals the same information. In this lesson we're going to discover how your genome uses its code to create your blood type. Also, here's an incomplete concept map for lesson three that you can also download from the instructor's notes. As usual, print it out or just keep it handy and see if you can fill in the empty blanks as you go through the lesson. Now if you prefer to have the complete version just skip to the end and look in the instructor's notes for the complete concept map. However, I highly encourage you to try using this incomplete version now, filling in your own notes as the lesson progresses and then we'll check your progress out on the completed map at the end of the lesson. Ok, Matt, I know blood cells are important, especially the red blood cells, because we hear about them all the time, but what exactly do blood cells do? Well, red blood cells are one of the most populous cell types in your body, because they carry out a very important function. There's a very special molecule inside red blood cells called hemoglobin that binds oxygen and carries it to all the cracks and crevices in your body. Its role is to actually go to all these places and exchange oxygen for carbon dioxide. It's the gas waste of our bodies. And even the shape. Everything about a red blood cell is essentially tailored to help maximize the efficiency of exchanging oxygen for carbon dioxide. Wait. But then, what does that have to do with blood type? Why does that matter? That's a great question. Blood type doesn't directly affect any oxygen consumption. But, on the surface of red blood cells, like most cells in your body, they're covered with different molecules that determine the blood cell's type, as we call it. This carbohydrate may or may not be modified to have three different types. The addition of an A antigen, the addition of a B antigen, or no addition at all. And whichever combination of these antigens you have is called your blood type. Now the protein that modifies the carbohydrate is an enzyme, a protein itself. An enzyme is anything that catalyzes a biological reaction. So if you look and see this enzyme adding the A antigen, or the B antigen, or no antigen, where do you think this enzyme, this protein, comes from? The protein that modifies the carbohydrate on the surface of your red blood cells to give you your blood type is coded from your genome. Now the ABO enzyme that can modify carbohydrates on the surface of red blood cells is coded in your genome, and it's just one example of hundreds of thousands of different proteins in your body that perform a specific function. After all, proteins make the cell go round. For example, your genome also codes for the enzyme lactase, which is another protein that allows all infants to metabolize milk from the mother. But over time, some people lose the expression of this enzyme, or protein, and they can become lactose intolerant. We'll learn more about that in lesson four. Your genome also codes for the enzyme tyrosinase. Which is a protein that's the rate limiting for producing melanin, the main pigment for skin pigmentation. Without tyrosinase, an individual could present with albinism, because there would be a lack of pigment in the skin, hair, and eyes. We'll learn more about this trait in lesson six. Your genum also codes for protein called FGFR3 or fiberblast growth factor receptor 3. Which can regulate bone growth and controls the trait of achondroplasia, one of the most common forms of dwarfism. An overactive version of this protein, significantly reduces bone growth and results in dwarfism. And as a last example, your genome also codes for a protein called BRCA1, or Breast Cancer Type 1 Susceptibility Gene, which repairs broken DNA strands. A non-functional version of this protein significantly increases the risk of breast cancer. Now, these are just examples of different enzymes or proteins. We use the words interchangeably. And the work of your genome is to have a cell that uses its code to make all of these different proteins or enzymes or products necessary to build your body and your traits. All the cells in your body are filled with proteins performing all kinds of functions that make up the basis for your traits. Okay, but where does the protein originally come from? Right, so we've finally come to the, the whole point of this, right? It comes from the genetic instructions inside the cells of your body inside the nucleus. You have two copies of your genome, one from mom and one from dad, six billion letters of information It sounds like a lot of information. How does it get turned into something else though? Well this is when it's time for us to think about our genome book again, not like just a book, but a book of recipes. You've got lots of recipes to make up who you are. We don't need all of them right now, we just want to focus on blood type. So I may have the blood type recipe for type A and you have the blood type recipe for type B. Maybe a better way of doing this is to actually go ahead and you know, get a, get a real recipe out here. Okay. We'll, we'll be pretty udacious about this and I want to give you this example of a recipe that Lauren, this was a, a recipe from your grandmother. Okay. Let's start simple with the recipe we see here. What food is this most likely going to make? Now, I'm going to read out the recipe really quick. Our measurements are very American centric. So we're not using the scientific metric system here. But we're going to take our first 6 ingredients, and mix them well. A cup of butter, 4 eggs, a cup of milk. 2 cups of sugar, 2 and half cups of flour. A teaspoon of baking powder. And we're going to mix it all together. And as one of our later ingredients, we're going to have 1 tube of blue icing. [UNKNOWN] We'll pour this into a pan and bake at 375 degrees fahrenheit for 20 minutes, then we'll remove it from the pan, cool, and then we can add our icing. So tell me, what food is this likely a recipe for? This recipe is most likely going to be used to make a cake. With ingredients like butter, eggs, milk, sugar, flour we're going to be baking. And we're going to be using icing and this is going to be very sweet, so this is going to be a cake. Not pizza, steak, or salad. Okay, so I see that this recipe makes this cake. But what happens if any parts of these recipes change because there's millions of cake recipes out there? Right. Just like there are millions of cake recipes, there are tons of different gene recipes, as well. And this changes over generations. For example, your grandmother's recipe gets passed down to your mother. I want you to look at the Mother's Recipe because there was a mistake made when it was passed down from grandmother to mother. See if you can spot the mistake and select the answer of the most likely change. So if we compare these recipes pretty close together, we'll see that the one big difference we notice is the difference between blue icing and red icing. So we're actually going to suspect that Mother's recipe is going to give us a cake with red icing. So when my grandmother passed on the recipe, my mom got a recipe that had red icing. But my grandmother's recipe had blue icing. Exactly. And now your mother is going to pass that recipe down to you. Great [LAUGH]. Take a look at the recipe that Lauren got from her mom. And compare it to the recipe from her grandmother. There are three recipes now, I want you to look at the change that took place at each incarnation. And I want you to tell me which change is the most significant. Recipes are great, because usually the end product is something pretty tasty, like a cake. I love cake. Me, too. But the bad thing about recipes is, you kind of have to stick to the recipe, and if you change something, even something small, you can end up with a change that's really insignificant... Or a really big change. And If we think of our genome as a big book of recipes, then we can pull from these individual recipes to make individual proteins, and we call these individual recipes genes. A gene is just a sequence of DNA that codes for something. So, let's bring these back to blood type. You're saying that we have these Individual genes that create A,B or O proteins and that dictates what kind of blood type we have. Actually and this A,B,O gene that creates this proteins if we change it a little bit that can change the protrein right and then that protein may give us type A or type B or could elimate the protein all together and we get no type or type O. So the big question at this point is, how is this DNA code like a recipe? And how is it turned into protein, actually, technically? So this is a picture of a typical human cell, and almost all of the DNA can be found inside the nucleus, here you can see represented by the chromosomes. But out here in the cytoplasm of the cell. We see these black dots which are representing ribosomes, and ribosomes are the machines that will build proteins. So if ribosomes are the molecular machines that will build proteins from amino acids and they're located out here in the cytoplasm and the information that we need to make the protein is actually here in the nucleus. How do you think the cells going to solve this problem of having the informations segregated away from the machinery needed to actually build proteins. This is a real physical problem that has to be overcome. Now some of you may already know the answer to this question, but if you don't, I really want you to think about how you might solve this problem if you were at cell. The information's in the nucleus, the machinery to build the proteins in the cytoplasm. How are we going to solve this problem? So don't worry about getting this right or wrong, per se. Just think of a plausible way that you might solve this problem, or a way that you think a cell could solve it. And enter it into the text box here. Okay, one answer, and the actual way this happens, is that the cell could make a copy just of the sequence that it needs for the current recipe it's making, and bring it to the cytoplasm to be turned into protein. Just imagine for a second that we actually make a tiny copy, just of this little piece of the chromosome here. Because that's the information we're interested in. And then we bring it out of the nucleus into the cytoplasm. And now we have access to these ribosomes that can use the information to build from. Now there might be other ways you've thought of to do this. Like someone came up with a way where, like a piece of the nucleus might break off into the cytoplasm carrying DNA directly to the ribosomes. Another possible explanation you could have come up with is that there's another special compartment that could house both DNA and ribosomes so they have to be trafficked there or taken there together. Or maybe you thought of something even more unique. But the way a cell solves the problem is that it makes copies of the information that it needs to build the protein that it wants at that time, and it takes these copies into the cytoplasm. To actually be turned into protein by ribosomes. So it's important for you to recognize that DNA never leaves the nucleus. It never comes in direct contact with the machinery necessary to build protiens, called roibosomes. And as a solution of this problem there's an intermediate step that involves a chemical cousin of DNA called RNA. So although DNA never leaves the nucleus A copy is made, and this copy is composed of a very closely related molecule called RNA. It's kind of like taking a, a big book of recipes, or our big genome book here, and we're just xeroxing a few pages that we're interested in, that'll help us make the protein we need. Obviously, we don't need the whole genome to make one protein. But there are sequences of information that are necessary to make up individual proteins, and we just want to make copies of what we need, and bring them out to the cytoplasm to read. This copying process must happen for every protein-coding gene. Any gene is going to produce a protein, including the ABO gene. So for the ABO gene to be turned into protein, we'll first make a copy that'll be brought to the cytoplasm, and then turned into protein. This basic process of making copies of DNA, bringing it to the cytoplasm to make protein, is so important to almost all lifeforms on our planet, that we call it the Central Dogma. And the Central Dogma takes on a very specific form in these three words, organized in a certain order. They're found up here, I just want to see if you can plug them into the boxes in the right order. Blank to blank to blank is the Central Dogma. See if you can figure out what belongs in each one. So the central dogma, itself, so central to all life, is that DNA is transcribed into an RNA intermediate, a copy which has been brought to the cytoplasm and then turned into protein. So the central dogma is DNA to RNA to Protein. In the case of the ABO gene. The DNA sequence will be transcribed into an RNA copy or intermediate that will leave the nucleus, and go to the cytoplasm. Where it will be translated by ribosomes into protein. Now, we're about to dive deep into these processes called transcription and translation. But first, we should learn a bit more about this RNA copy, that's so critical to the transfer of genetic information. So if we follow the central dogma in our example of blood type, our ABO gene, made of DNA, is going to be turned into an ABO RNA copy that can be trafficed to the cytoplasm. And here, it will be turned into the ABO protein by ribosomes. Now these two arrows here that connect DNA to RNA and RNA to protein are what we're about to dive deep into. These processes are called transcription and translation, and by the end of this lesson you'll see exactly how a DNA code is turned into protein. But, for us to dive deep into these processes, we really need to understand a bit more about this critical intermediate copy RNA. You'll remember from lesson two that DNA is made of deoxynucleotides, and that's what I'm showing you here. This is the chemistry, the chemical structure we looked at when we studied deoxynucleotides. And in this case, there's an adenine, or an A as the nitrogenous base that's attached. Now, RNA is, chemically speaking, incredibly similar to DNA. In fact, you should only be able to notice one difference about the chemical structure of RNA compared to DNA. RNA is made of nucleotides instead of deoxynucleotides. And what I want you to try to do, select the region that distinguishes DNA from RNA. Focus down here on the RNA nucleotide and there are four regions to choose from. I want you to pick the one that you think distinguishes it from the DNA deoxynucleotide. So the answer is the oxygen that you see down here in the RNA Nucleotide. Notice if we compare the two molecules to each other.The only difference that we see is right here,the fact the DNA is missing a oxygen that the RNA has and fact thats why we call it A deoxynucleotide for DNA, because it's missing the oxygen. Deoxy. Whereas RNA has the oxygen, so it's just called a nucleotide. Some people even call it a ribonucleotide. So chemically speaking, DNA and RNA are incredibly similar. They're not exactly the same. While DNA is made of deoxynucleotides because it's ribosugar is missing an oxygen. And here, the ribosugar is this black pentagon here. RNA's made of nucleotides. Which I'm showing in this, sort of, light blue pentagon, meaning that it has an extra oxygen. So this is how I'm going to distinguish them, from here on out whenever we have this kind of structure here. Now, nucleotides have nitrogenous bases, just like deoxynucleotides do. You can see the colorful structures in the DNA and in the RNA. And long sequences of these nucleotides can be strung together, one right after another, in DNA as well as RNA. But there's one big difference. In the four letter alphabet of nitrogenous bases between DNA and RNA. Just making a few comparisons here, I want you to see if you can answer three questions for me. I want you to look at the strands and tell me what DNA letter is missing in RNA and I want you to tell me what new RNA letter appears. And I want you to tell me what letter that new RNA letter might base pair with. Go ahead and see if you can answer those three questions in the text boxes here. So what DNA letter is missing in RNA? Thymine. You'll notice that thymine represented by T, can't be found here in the RNA sequence. But instead, we have a new letter, U. And U stands for Uracil, which we'll learn more about in a second. And since U is replacing T We might assume, based on the similar structure as well, that it base pairs with A, or adenine. Now there are two main features of RNA that distinguish it from DNA. The first is that RNA uses a different nitrogenous base attached to its nucleotides called Uracil or U instead of Thymine, T. The second distinguishing feature is that RNA is typically single-stranded. Unlike DNA which you normally see two strands in a helix together with each other. But even though it's single stranded, it's still composed of nitrogenous bases, just like the DNA, dioxynucleitides are. So this means that RNA also has the ability to base pair. In this case, uracil behaves in RNA like thiamine behaves in DNA. And so uracil binds with adenine the same way thiamine would bind with adenine. So hopefully you'll notice that based on the chemistry alone, RNA and DNA are very similar. And there are just a few differences that distinguish them. Chemically speaking, these differences are very important. And again out of the scope of this course, you may find out later exactly why DNA and RNA are so different, and why their functions can vary so much. I want you to see if you can tell me which one of the following images. Do think best represents RNA as it is most likely found in the cell. Do you think you'd see a single strand of RNA, just as a straight, linear strand, all laid out like this first option. Or do you think you would see something that looks like this, where the single strand has folded back on itself, where it appears there may be some Base pairing. Whichever answer you end up picking, I'd like for you to try and justify your answer in the text box here, explaining why you think the RNA would look like that inside a cell. Okay, most likely, we would expect to see the RNA folded on itself somehow. And it can do this because, wherever base pairing can actually occur, meaning whenever you have a stretch of nitrogenous bases or letters that actually match up. That the RNA can actually fold back and pair with itself. So although it doesn't have a complete complementary second strand like DNA would have. It can still base pair and usually it will base pair on itself, if it can by just folding back an matching any regions that it has. [BLANK_AUDIO]. Okay. It's actually time for us to finally start trying to turn our ABO gene into an ABO protein. And the first thing we're going to do is go from DNA to RNA, which is the first step of the central dogma via the process of transcription. So if you look here. We have our double stranded DNA, our double helix, and it's wound up. We're going to follow along the gene right here, and as you can see as it moves across, on the, on the bottom region here we have the chemistry, the chemical structure, and on the top region we have the letters that actually make up the same DNA structure. Obviously, the chemistry on the bottom is something that's a little more difficult to read, and that's why we have the letters which are right there on the top model. To help us better see what's going on here in the double helix, we're actually going to unwind it the way a cell normally would. When a cell finds something interesting in DNA that it wants to read more or know more about, it often unwinds the DNA a bit so it has better access. Now the cell is going to use proteins to detect where transcription should begin. And we're going to learn more about how that happens in the next lesson. But for now all you should know is that this sequence region is called a promoter. A region of DNA that's read or detected by proteins that signals the start of transcription. And once the proteins are bound to the DNA And not only begins to unwind but it begins to separate into single strands to give greater access and initiate transcription. Our double helix has been unwound and separated into single strands here. And for transcription to occur, it will rely on a very basic property of DNA. So I want you to see if you can tell me, what property of DNA do you think is most essential to make an RNA copy? Do you think it's, that DNA is able to associate with histones? That it can have a helical structure, the fact that it base pairs, or the fact that it's inherited from your parents. Go ahead and pick whcih answer you think is best. The answer to this question is base pairing. In the same way that nitrogeneous bases of DNA compare with one another, and knowing one strand down here, can tell you information about the other strand. Again, it's easier to see with the letters here. RNA also has nitrogenous bases that compare and this is going to allow for information to be mirrored just like it can be in DNA. Okay, so now we're really ready to begin. Our ABO gene is unzipped, it's unwound, the DNA strands are separated. We know that base pairing is going to be really important in creating our RNA copy. So now we're ready to start transcribing. Our DNA and RNA, our RNA letters are going to come in one by one and match in sequence until we get to the end of the gene. Therefore, during transcription, I want you to tell me which base pairing scenario is most likely to be occurring. Are we seeing DNA:DNA base pairing, RNA:RNA base pairing, or DNA:RNA base pairing? So the answer is the third one. DNA RNA base pairing. Remember that Uracil replaces Thymine in RNA, but that doesn't mean that Uracil from RNA can't base pair with Adenine from DNA. Remember, the ribose sugars are different. They're colored differently in the RNA strand compared to the DNA strand, but the letters, the nitrogenous bases, can still pair with each other, right? So here we have an RNA-DNA hybrid right now. Base pairing is a powerful phenomenon, and as long as you have these nitrogenous bases They want to form these paired bonds with each other. So as transcription occurs, a nucleotide after nucleotide is brought in on the RNA side, it will keep being brought in for the whole length of the gene until transcription is complete, and you've reached the end. Now, when I say the end, this isn't the end of the chromosome. There actually is a distinct end to a gene, and we'll talk a little bit more about that later. So here we have it. Transcription. A promoter region, a sequence of DNA, tells proteins exactly where transcription should start in a particular region. And we call this region the transcription start site. And at this point, individual RNA nucleotides are going to be brought in and matched with the DNA. One by one. And this will continue, until we reach the end of the gene. So on a molecular level, you really get a feel for the chemistry that's going on here. And so for us to really see what's going on at this point, we need to zoom out a little bit more. So if we take a look at the DNA gene as a whole, from start to stop. This is where transcription started, and this is where transcription ends. This was the full length of the DNA gene that we wanted to transcribe and eventually turn into protein. The RNA copy is actually called an mRNA copy. mRNA means Messenger RNA. It turns out that RNA serves many purposes in a cell. And so there are lots of prefixes for RNA that distinguishes what it can do. And the most important one for us is this messenger status. Because the messenger means that it was a copy made from a DNA gene, and that's eventually going to be turned into protein. We call this our mRNA or our messenger RNA copy. Now you might notice a couple of differences, from our DNA gene. And our mRNA copy. I've drawn these images to be representative of some distinguishing characteristics of the process. So I want you to tell me, how does this mRNA copy differ compared to the DNA gene that it came from? I'm not going to give you any answers to choose from, just a text box. I'd like for you to organize your thoughts and try to answer this question. Don't worry about getting this right or wrong. Just look at the difference between the gene and the mRNA and whatever difference you notice, I want you to write it down in the text box here. What in the world are you doing? Oh I, I'm just pretending I'm inside a cell, and I just transcribed a gene, and so I've got the RNA and now I'm cutting and pasting all the exons together. But how do you know where to cut? Oh, well that's easy. Because the exons and introns are colored here, the exons are in purple. And the entrons are in orange and I am essentially taking and cutting out the entrons and keeping the xons. So we keep the xons, but we get rid of the entrons? Exactly and what sounds a kind of intuitive, but we keep the xons and we cut out the entrons. So that's why the mRNA's shorter than the gene, because we're actually getting rid of some of the gene sequence. Except for the ones that only have one exon, right? That's exactly right. Now, most genes have more than one exon. There are a few that have only one. But those genes that have more than one exon have to cut out all those introns, in a process called splicing. That's what splicing is, we cut out, splice out, the introns, and we splice together All the exons. Can we infer anything about the number of introns and exons based on the length of the mRNA? So I want you to tell me, here 2 mRNA's made from their respective genes. Here is the DNA gene and the mRNA copy that resulted. Another DNA gene and its mRNA copy that resulted. After transcription. I want you to tell me for both examples, how many axons do you think are in each gene? So here are the genes, on the left and right, and beneath them are MRNA copies. And just to be clear, on the left, the MRNA copy is the exact length as the DNA gene. And over here on the right, the mRNA copy is shorter than the DNA gene, so using the options below for each scenario, I want you to pick the best answer for the question, how many exons do you think are in each gene? This is a tough one, so think about it first, and try again if you don't get it the first go around. So if you take this scenario on the left here, we see that the mRNA copy is exactly the same link that is the DNA gene. Well, if this is true then that means that nothing was spliced out. No entrons left, in which case we have one xon. We have one full xon that takes up the whole length of the gene. Now, on the scenario in the right, you see that our mRNA copy is in fact shorter than a DNA gene. So, this does tell us that there's some splicing going on, and introns are being cut out, and some exons are being retained. But you can tell that we don't have any demarcation here where the introns and exons are, we just know that there are some. So we can't determine exactly how many we have. So let's actually apply this to our real example that we've been talking about in this lesson, blood type and the ABO enzyme. So this is the ABO gene here and it's transcribed into the ABO mRNA that you see here. Now obviously you'll notice that the mRNA copy is much shorter than the ABO gene itself. And you'll also notice that exons and introns can come in all different shapes and sizes. They can be really big or really short. And they don't have to be the same size even within a gene. So without me making it explicit and telling you exactly where all the introns and exons are. I want you to tell me, what do you think is most likely an intron in this image? Do you think its this big orange segment here? This smaller purple segment here? This dash black region out here, or this bigger purple section here? Go ahead and select the answer that you think represents most likely an intron. So if we take a look at the ABO mRNA here, we can tell it's much shorter, and it's composed of the purple segments, or the really small segments. Both of those are identifiers here. So, if it's kept in the mRNA, then it's an exon. Introns are actually cut out. So the introns must be these big Orange regions here. And, these other orange regions over here. Outside of teh gene entirely in the dash region is completely somewhere else in the DNA. And, this purple region here is just another axon. So now that you know the structure of the gene, what the mRNA looks like, where the exons and introns are, I want to see if you can tell me how many exons and how many introns are in this gene. OK. If the exons are in purple, I count, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. You should be able to count the same up here. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. The number of introns we can't count in the mRNA but we see them up here in the gene. One, two, three, four, five, six. And you'll notice a pattern. Whenever you have to count the number of exons and introns in a gene, there'll always be one less intron than there are exons. If there's one exon, then there'll be zero introns. If there are two exons, there'll be one intron. Now for some of you advanced learners out there, there's some mixing and matching of exons. In certain genes, that's a pretty advanced level concept. But right now for most of us just learning this, it's generally true that however many exons we have in a gene, there's one fewer intron. If the ABO mRNA is the length of this string that you see here, which is about the width of a single parking space in a parking lot. Then ABO gene, the DNA sequence that the mRNA comes from, what actually have to be about 17 times the distance away from me. All the way down there to Loren. It's a really long way, guys. Now, like most genes, just like the ABO mRNA transcript, all other genes, almost all other genes have some kind of intronic regions to cut out. So the mRNA is much shorter than the DNA sequence that it comes from. Matt, that was a long way. Seems like a waste of material though. I know it sounds like a lot, but there's a reason for this. That reason's pretty advanced though, there's a lot going on with exons and introns, and it's kind of out of the scope of our course. All I want you to know is that if a gene has more than one exon, all those introns have to be spliced out so that we can get the complete MRNA with just the exons. Now that we have our ABO MRNA complete, what's next? Well the next step is to bring that MRNA copy out of the nucleus and into the cytoplasm where it can be translated into protein. Okay, going back to the cake analogy we now have a recipe copied in the kitchen, we're ready to cook but. What are the ingredients to a protein? Right, I guess you know the ingredients for food and now you know the ingredients for DNA there are ingredients for proteins and they're called amino acids. Amino acids are the basic building blocks of proteins, unlike DNA which only has four ingredients. Proteins are made up of amino acids, 20 different kinds of them. Each of these amino acids, has its own name, its own chemical structure. And they can be strung together in a row, in a sequence just like our DNA letters could. Now, each amino acid has its own name and its own abbreviation. We have three letter abbreviations and one letter abbreviations. We're going to go back and forth using them, so try to familiarize yourself with both. But if you ever get stuck, you're one Google search away from trying to remember exactly what you need. That's a lot of ingredients. So, there's four in a DNA, and then there's 20 that make up the proteins. But how do those four DNA ingredients correspond to the amino acids. That is a really good question and it's what we're about to explore. So we've finally gone through the first step of the central dogma, transcription, and we have our MRNA. So the second step of the central dogma is to turn that MRNA into protein using a process called translation. Translation relies heavily on the molecular machinery. On a component known as a ribosome. Ribosomes are the main driver of translation. Ribosomes are actually able to read an MRNA sequence by taking it in at one end and reading the MRNA sequence all the way through to the other end. And as it does this, it takes those 20 amino acids And reads the code determining which amino acid belongs in a particular position. Now one of the most exciting puzzles of the 20th century, was to figure out how this code worked? I mean how is that this genetic code that these 4 letters and in what combination is that the [UNKNOWN] can read this. And add the right amino acid. Was it one base, one letter, per amino acid? If true, that would only give us four possible combinations: an A, a G, a C, or a U, and we know that we have at least 20 amino acids to get to. If it's two bases per amino acid Then that would only be sixteen possible combinations. Things like AG, AC, AU, GC, GA, GU, and so forth and so on. Only sixteen combinations but still 20 amino acids. So just extending that logic a little further, what's the minimum number of bases needed To have enough combinations to code for at least 20 amino acids. Go ahead and put the number that you think is best in this text box here. The answer is 3. A combination of 3 bases is needed. Now there are a couple of ways of figuring this out. Probably one of the easiest but longest ways of doing this is to actually just test everything out one by one. You can see if we just write combos of one letter out we only get a total of 4 combinations. [UNKNOWN] We can also do the same thing for the dinucleotide, or two base combination. And remember, GA is is not the same thing as AG, because, you know, the order matters here. And we get a total possible combinations of 16. When we do the same thing for the three base nucleotide combinations, we see that we get 64 different ones. And at this point, we've reached past our minimum of 20 amino acids. But the shorter way of doing this is to just use a little math. We have four possible letters and three positions, so we can raise four to the power of three, which is also equal to 64 combinations And get that answer pretty quickly. And so it turns out that a minimum number, a minimum combination of three letters is necessary to start coding for all the amino acids that cell needs to use for translation. And you can see we actually have room for extra. And we'll see how that works in a second. George Gamow was a pioneer of the genetic code. After James Watson and Francis Crick accurately published the structure of DNA in 1953. Gamow was one of the leading scientists trying to crack the genetic code, and figure out how to translate it into protein. Now Gamow had correctly calculated that three nucleotides was enough to code for all 20 amino acids, and then some. But the real question was whether or not the genetic code was overlapping or not. In other words, Gamow favored a model where a sequence of letters in RNA would be read in sets of three. But after reading the first triplet, the second triplet began with the second letter of the first triplet. And so on. Now this was referred to as the overlapping model because each codon overlapped with another. An alternative model suggested that there was no overlap and one triplet was read right after another triplet and so on. So of these models, which one do you think would be the most efficient for information storage? It turns out that the overlapping model is the most efficient for information storage. Now the reason why is pretty simple. If we look at our 6 bases in the RNA code here, in the overlapping model, those 6 bases could code for 4 different amino acids. But in the non-overlapping model, we can only code for 2. Although George Gamow thought information would be stored most efficiently in the overlapping model. In reality the triplet code is read in the non-overlapping fashion. Actually, the less efficient method. Now, obviously, if we were designing a system, this doesn't make a lot of sense, as far as efficiency's sake, right? We can get more information stored in this overlapping model than compared this non overlapping model where each codon has to be its own individual or its own discreet unit. And it turns out that this messiness, this inefficiency is a result of evolution. And in particularly some molecular constraints of the system that are slightly beyond the scope of our material here. So that means that we're left with 64 possible combinations of three nucleotides and each set of three is referred to as a codon. So we have 64 possible codons. And a codon is just a sequence of the three nucleotides that are part of the genetic code. And, it took years of experiments to finally determine which codons code for which amino acids. And this information is referred to as the genetic code. Although it took many years and a lot of hard work to come up with this information. I'm giving it to you, right here, summarized for free in less than a few seconds. Here is all of the magic of the genetic code. You'll going to have to get quite familiar with this table so, I hope it doesn't scare you away too fast. I've color coded it to try to make it a little simpler for you. And I'll explain to you how to read it in just a moment. But the first thing that I want you to do is actually just stare at it for a minute. Try to read it. First letter in the codon, second letter in the codon, third letter in the codon. We have UCAG, UCAG, and then each combination for every row here. And then you can see each codon is spelled out. In the individual box and then beside it is the amino acid that it codes for. What patterns or features stand out to you about this genetic code? Is there anything interesting that you notice? I want you to use the text box here to describe any kind of response you have that might answer this question. And don't worry about getting this right or wrong. I just want to see what you pick up on. You could always go to the forum and see what other people think about the genetic code too. Okay. Did you find anything interesting? There are a couple of possible things that I've noticed. The first is that not all codons have an amino acid. You'll notice over here, UAA, UAG, and UGA all code for something called a stop codon. They don't even have an amino acid associated with them. You might also have noticed redundancy. Leucine is coded by C U U, C U C, C U A and C U G. All four of those code for leucine. this is considered redundancy. And then we look up here: U U A, U U G. That also codes for leucine. But not every amino acid has that redundancy. For example, only one codon codes for tryptophan symbolized by Trp and W here. A third possible thing I noticed was that, it seems when there is redundancy, and you get several condons for one amino acid, it's always the third position that seems to be unimportant. GU anything will give me Valine. GC anything will give me Alanine. AC anything will give me Threanine. CC anything will give me Proline. So it seems as if, biologically speaking, this third position may not be so important in distinguishing different amino acids the same way that the first or the second letter in the codon would be. So there are some important features that we could pick up on from the genetic code here. The first is that some amino acids are coded by multiple codons. In the answer to the last exercise we sort of explored this a little bit and see that alanine is coded by GCU, GCC, GCA, GCG. And this happens for some of the other amino acid as well. Another feature that some amino acids have only codon that codes for them, for example, trip to fan, just as UGG. Another feature is that some codons have special functions. For example, we see 3 appear UAA, UAG and UGA code for stop codons, there's no amino acid and it seems to signal. The stop for translation. And over here, we have one codon that seems to code for an amino acid, methionine, but it's also representative of the start. It appears that there's a start codon. This AUG turns out to be really important. Because this start codon is necessary to start protein synthesis for translation. This is the codon that tells the ribosome where to start. Alternatively, these stop codons are essentially signals that tell the ribosome where to stop. So now, using the genetic code here I want to see if you can find the start codon, the stop codon, and the codon that codes for Alanine, or Ala in this following mRNA sequence. There are 3 codons to choose from, AUG, GCA, and UGA. And for each of these options' start, I want you to pick one of these 3 check boxes that corresponds with one of these codons. If you have trouble reading this genetic code right here, just look in the instructor's notes. Any time you have to use the genetic code, and I'll always give it to you, or any question, just look in the instructor's notes, and there'll be a link right there. You can also download it, keep it to yourself, you can Google image search other genetic codes if you're interested in seeing them, but go ahead and use the information here to see if you can answer This question and select the correct codon for start, stop, and Alanine. So using our genetic code we can see that the start code, and there's only one, AUG. And we can see it right here, AUG. Now instead of trying to guess the other ones, because I knew there's only one start code on. Let's actually try to interpret this one. GCA, let's come over here, the first letter is G, the second letter is C, and the third letter is A. So GCA right there, is Alanine And so I am going to check that box and the last one is UGA and we can go to here at stop [UNKNOWN] and we see UGA is one of our stuff [UNKNOWN]. So hopefully you can get some idea of how reading this genetic code works. So ribosomes are the molecular machinery that carry up the process of translation. Then that means they are going to the mRNA sequence, read it codon by codon and spit out an amino acid for each codon. Okay, using only the one letter abbreviations for the amino acids. I want you to tell me what would be the sequence for this mRNA. Here it is, ACAGAUGCC, so forth and so on. And there are six possible answers. And what I need you to do, is try to use the genetic code over here to try to figure out. What would the sequence of amino acids be, if you were the ribosome and you had to translate this sequence. I want you to think about this question. It's not an easy one. It's not meant to be a trick question, but you do need to think about it. I want you to try to get it right the first go round, but it's okay if you don't. You can look at the genetic code again, try to see what you did wrong. If you get stuck, go to the forums. See if anyone else has some helpful advice. And try again. Okay, this is a really tricky problem. But the answer is the last one right here. Methianine or M, P or Proline, D or Aspartate, or S or Syrine. Now if you had trouple getting this, let's walk through it really quick. I can immediately get rid of these first three answers over here for one very important reason. We have one start codon and it's Methanine. A ribosome is looking for that start codon and if I read my mRNA ACA, no that's not it, CAG, no that's not it, AGA, no that's not it, GAU, no that's not it, AUG, there it is, AUG. AUG's my star codon. Right? That means I get a Methionine. None of these start with Methionine. All of these start with Threonine which is an ACA. So, if you just start at the beginning, you would have started with the Threonine and probably gotten one of these three answers. This is the one, I think if you end up going all the way to the very end, and the second one, is if you might have noticed a stop codon. ACAGAUGCCUGA stop, right? And some of you might have stopped completely and just put TDA, or if you stopped and then kept going, right, that would not have been accurate, as we see over here. Is a better example of why you wouldn't want to do that. We know now that we want to start at AUG, okay, so now we know the first one is Methionine, and because we have a non-overlapping code, our next one is CCU. We don't do UGC or GCC, the next codon is CCU. Go over here. CCU is Proline, so we have a P. They all have a P. The next one is GAU. GAU. Aspartate D, they all have that. The next one would be UCA, UCA Syrine right here. So the next one should be Syrine. They all have that. And then we get to UGA. And you'll notice that UGA is one of our special stop codons. This would tell the ribosome to stop translating right here. And actually the only one that stops is MPDS, this last one right here. The other ones actually keep going. ACC, ACC. Is Threanine, right? They actually thought that they should drop in another amino acid and keep on going. When you get to a stop codon, you stop translating. From AUG to UGA, this would be our actual code that gets turned into protein. Let me get this straight. We have our genome, which contains our genes, that are transcribed and translated into proteins. Right. But, we cut out entire sections, which are introns. And, we only translate between the start and stop codons? That's exactly right. And on top of that, there's more DNA sequence called the promoter region. That doesn't code for any protein and just controls the initiation of transcription. Okay, but how much of the genome actually turns into proteins in the end? That's a really good question. Why don't you take a crack at it. Even if you don't know the answer, just pick from one of the following. How much of the genome do you think codes for protein? It turns out that less than 2% of our genomes actually code for protein. 2%? That's nothing. I know it really does seem that way, but when you remember our ABO mRNA example where you were in the parking lot? Yeah. Only 10% of the ABO gene actually has turned into any kind of coding region that's turned into protein. Now at large in the genome, there's a lot of other reasons why that number's so small, so let's go talk to somebody who knows a bit more about that. Okay. I'm Uta Francke. I'm a Human Geneticist originally from Germany as you can hear. And I'm an Emeritus Professor here at Stanford and also Senior Medical Director at 23andMe. So, we have three billion based pairs and just one copy of the human genome. And we, we've learned that, you know we have two copies of the human genome of the nuclear genome in, in our cells. And we've been learning a bit about the coding regions, the protein coding regions. what, what can you tell us about the relative size of the protein coding regions of the genome versus the sort of non coding regions? The big question was how many protein coding genes are there in the genome? And initially, before the genome project the, the number that's been kicked around was like 100,000. Sort of, a wild guess. And then, between 2000 and 2003, there was an official betting game going on where people could put down a dollar and a number. And then years later, it was $5 and then it was $20 because in a way, it became more difficult. And everybody could only put on down one bet. About 150 people put down the bet, and their range, the ranges of their guesses went from, you wouldn't believe it. 25,000 to 150,000. Wow. So nobody had really any good idea. The mean was around 61,000 genes. And when the first draft was published they said, well we had a brief look at it and we think it's between 30 and 35,000. And when it was finally finished, the number had come down to 20 to 25,000. And many people were surprised because this is hardly any more than the, the round worm or the fruit fly. So the humans are so much more complex, shouldn't they have more protein coding genes? So the complexity cannot be immediately dedu, deduced from the number of genes, when you don't know what these, these genes can be used for. So what percentage of the genome is actually made up of coding region, roughly? It's only 1 to 2%. And so all this other, you know, 90, 98 to 99% then. I mean, a lot of people who you know, are just learning about the genome may be wondering, what exactly is the rest of that sequence doing? You see, originally people thought it was just junk. It was just a virus getting in and replicating itself. Mm-hm. And, in recent years, people started to look at how much of that sequence is being made into RNA. How much is being transcribed. And to everyone's surprise more than 80% is actually made into a copy of RNA. And these RNAs have all kinds of interesting functions. For example, to regulate activity of other genes. To regulate the activity of messenger RNAs, how they are being translated. And many different function that the RNAs have. Some of them are structural. There are RNA set as structural components of the ribosome. And otherwise, outside of the coding sequence are control regions that are important to regulate the activity of each gene. I see. So, we learn in this lesson about messenger RNA. Mm-hm. mRNA. And so what you're saying, there are actually other kinds of RNAs that can be made besides mRNA that doesn't get turned into protein? That's right. And what was found out recently, that you remember there are two strands in the DNA and the messenger RNAs only made of one strand that gives the information for the protein. But what is being found out now is that there are anti-sense RNAs that actually the other strand of DNA can also be made into RNA. It goes in the opposite direction. It has no coding function for proteins, usually not, sometimes it does. But it has regulatory function. And you just can imagine, if a gene is transcribed in the other direction, then the transcription of the messenger RNA has a problem. You know, it runs into, it's a train wreck, right? So there was a regulation of gene activity by anti sense RNA that's one mechanism. Right. So it sounds like maybe some of the complexity of different species or complexity of cells is in part not so much the, the sheer content. The number of genes you have, but maybe how you regulate all of those genes together to, to create something. What we are finding out now is that the genomic regions communicate with each other. Like you can have an enhancer region that is downstream away from the gene or even in an entrant of another gene that then falls over, communicates with the promoter and sets in motion the messenger RNA sentences. So the whole genome is three-dimensional. It's not just a one dimensional series of letters. There's a lot of three-dimensional arrangement and interaction that's very important for its function. While less than 2% of the human genome actually counts as coding for anything, there are more than 20,000 genes in just that 2%. Now we refer to this major division in the genome as protein coding DNA and non-coding DNA. Now the rest of this lesson will actually continue to cover how this 2% of our genome still codes for all those proteins. The next lesson will actually start to reveal some more about the role of this 98% of non-coding DNA. To make sure that your understanding of non-coding and protein coding DNA sequences is clear, I've listed five different types of sequence that we could find in a genome. We have exons, introns, promoter regions, translated sequence between start and stop codons, and untranslated sequence that would be transcribed but outside start and stop codons. I want you to indicate which sequences is in this list here. Which sequences of DNA would be considered either coding or non-coding. So we're going to use the number one to represent coding and two to represent non-coding. So in each box I want you to put either the number one or the number two to indicate whether an exon would be considered part of coding or non-coding sequence. Go ahead and pick which answer you think is best for each item in the list. So the answer to this question is that exons are considered part of protein coding DNA because exons are eventually turned into protein. And the same is true for translated sequence between start and stop codons. They're all part of protein coding DNA because the sequences that make up that DNA are eventually turned into protein. And these other reasons like introns, which are spliced out of MRNAs, promoter regions which are responsible for initiating transcription, and untranslated sequences, that are transcribed in part of the MRNA, but outside of the start and stop codons are all considered part on non-coding DNA. So hopefully if you truly understand the concepts of coding. DNA versus noncoding DNA. You will understand why each of these types of DNA sequence would be categories or classified as either protein coding or noncoding. If you're having any trouble with these concepts. Check out the forums and see what some of your classmates have to say. If I notice there's a lot of trouble, I'll try to post some clarifying information there or in the instructor's notes. Whether it's the ABO enzyme that determines blood type, the lactase protein which allows you to digest lactose found in many dairy products, or the tyrosinase enzyme which pigments your skin, and hair, and eyes. Or any other protein. The central dogma describes how DNA, the genetic code, is copied through an RNA intermediate. And translated by ribosomes into proteins made of amino-acids. Now, even one small change in the DNA, one change in the genetic code, can have profound consequences on the resulting protein. Let's take a closer look, using our example of the ABO enzyme and blood type. Let's take an actual segment of the ABO gene sequence here. From the coding region, we're going to take all the sequence from position 793 to position 801. So we're in the ABO gene. There's sequence on either side of this, but I want to focus in on this little snippet here. The TACCTGGGG. Now let's imagine that this is part of a DNA coding region in the ABO gene, and that it's going to be turned into protein, and the codons would be red like this, where we're in frame, we're reading along and we had a codon, a codon and a codon. I want you to imagine that you're a ribosome. An you were going to translate this sequence. So what would be the amino acids produced from this DNA sequence from the coding region of the ABO gene. I want you to use your genetic code, and look for the one letter abbreviations of the amino acids, and put what answer you think it would be in this text box here. Remember, this is something you're going to need to use your genetic code for, which you can see in a miniaturized version here. But, you can also get it in a link, located in the instructor's notes on this page. It's probably a good idea to go ahead and print this off and keep it handy somewhere, as we're going to keep coming back to it throughout other exercises in this lesson and other lessons. Okay, let's take a look at the answer. If we use our genetic code, we see that the first codon is TAC. So I'm going to look here, UAC, and that's tyrosine, which we symbolize with Y. Then I'm let's take the next one, CTG, CUG, which would be leucine or L. And then I am going to take the last one, which is GGG. And look for GGG glycine, which is symbolized with the G. So the answer is YLG. Now, what I hope none of you got tricked by is the fact that I gave you the DNA sequence not the RNA sequence. This is a coding region of DNA that will eventually be transcribed into the mRNA, that at these same positions will say UAC CUG GGG and so on, and we'll have these three codons. But remember, when the coding region is copied into the RNA intermediate, the mRNA, the thymines, or Ts, are replaced by U's. And that's why our genetic code uses U's, is because technically, the code that's being translated is not the DNA but the RNA that's being turned into protein. The RNA is the intermediate, and the DNA is where that RNA came from. So, although I give you the original DNA sequence, you should be able to figure out the protein by simply replacing the thymines with uracils, or T's with U's. And then reading the codons in that format, translating it from the genetic code into the protein sequence that you would get right here. So, in this case, in the ABO gene, from position 793 to position 801 of the genetic code, the coding region of the gene, we would get three amino acids from three codons, totaling nine nucleotides, tyrosine or Y, L for leucene, and G for glycine. So now you see how in the coding region of the ABO Gene we can take a small region. And see how it is turned from DNA into protein by playing into our genetic code and coming up with those amino acids. Now, the interesting thing is not everybody has the same sequence for the ABO Gene. Some people have a different letter At position 796. So this is position 793, 94, 95, this would be position 796. This C, this cytosine right here. Some people have a cytosine, but not everybody. So one person has a variation where that position 796 is changed to an A. And another person has a variation where that position 796 cytosine is changed to a T. I want you to tell me which variant you think would have a more significant change compared to this original sequence that we showed up here. Remember, make use of your genetic code here that's given on the screen. If this is too small or you can't read it well. Then you can also click on the link in the instructor's notes to see, the full version of the genetic code again. I want you to select which variant you think is a more significant change. And then I want you to explain why you think that is in this textbox right here. Okay, I hope you're able to get this one right. The answer is variant 1 would be more significant, and the reason is that this mutation or variation, this change from a C to an A, changes the codon from CTG, here's C T or U. G, which would be a leucine right, the second amino acid was leucine, to an ATG, which would be AUG or methianine. So now we change from a leucine up here to a methianine down here. Leucine to methianine. But in this variation going from a CTG to a TTG. If we look over here, t. So u and then u and then g. You'll notice is still a lusine. This codon is still a lusine just like that codon up there. So where as this is a variation, a change from the cytosine to the thiamine. The codon is different, but the overall amino acid produced from it is still leucine. So this is not going to be nearly as significant a change as this one here, where we get a different amino acid entirely. Remember structure is function in the chemical world, and we just changed the structure. Of our overall protein because we change the amino acid. Okay. So now we've established that there are two different versions of the ABO gene sequence at this 796 position in the human population. And it turns out that the variation that results in [INAUDIBLE] this amino acid position, codes for blood type A in human beings. So if you have anything that produces [INAUDIBLE] here. This is associated with blood type A in humans. But if you have the variation that results in a methionine, or an M at this position, for an amino acid, then that results in a B blood type for humans. So we might call one of these variations the A version, and the other one the B version. But in genetics, we actually have a word to describe these kinds of variants. We call them alleles. An allele is just another word for variant. Alleles are just variations of genes. The gene is the ABO gene. But, we have two different variants. We have one variant with an adenine or an A at position 796, and another variant with a thymine or T at position 796. So we could call this an allele with an A that causes B blood type. And an allele T that causes the A blood type. As you can imagine we could have many different alleles. We can change nucleotides all over the place, anywhere we want and that's effectively producing different alleles, because they're variations in the gene. So we're going to start simple, and talk about one or two variations, one or two alleles. But for any trait, any gene, you can build up to virtually, as many alleles as there are positions in the gene. What I've done is listed the actual type A, blood type A alleles, and the blood type B alleles. Changing from a CGC to a GGC, a GGC to an AGC. And I've done the same thing for the amino acids that are associated with these alleles. The type A alleles for leucine to methionine, glycine to alanine, arginine to glycine, glycine to serine, uhhh the change from type A to the type B alleles. What I want you to do is tell me which of the variants, the genetic variants are associated with the changes in the amino acids. I've numbered them one, two, three, and four. And I want you put the number in the correct box here, that shows the, the correct amino acid change with the correct change in the genetic sequence here. Remember, use the genetic code, I'm not putting it on the screen here because there's not enough room, but you can click on a link in the instructor's notes to, get a bigger version. So if you use your genetic code for this question, you shouldn't have had any trouble at all. We see that a change from CGC to GGC would be a change from arginine to glycine, so that would be number three. A change from GGC to AGC would be a change from glycine to serine, which would be number four. Change from CTG to ATG would be a change from leucine to methionine, which should be number one. And that leaves a change from GGG to GCG, number two from glycine to alanine. The last couple of exercises, we've been looking at one particular region of the ABO gene and the various alleles that we can find there in the human population. But here's a different region of the gene. So we're much earlier in the genetic code here. We're still in the coding region. But here we're looking from position 250 to position 270. And what I've done is I've underlined the genetic code where in-frame here reading our codons in the DNA sequence. And you see we've got one, two, three, four, five, six, seven codons to read from. So now I want us to do the same thing that we did in one of the previous exercises. Imagine you're a ribosome, and you're not reading the DNA. Remember, you've got to be transcribed from DNA to RNA, and then RNA is translated by ribosomes into protein. But these are the representative coding region sequences. These are the DNA sequences that will eventually become the codons, which are underlined here. And let's say that we have two variations. And these times the variations aren't a change in the letter, it's actually a deletion of a letter or multiple letters. In this first variant, we actually move along and then we delete three letters in a row. In the second variation, we actually delete only one letter. Tell me, which one do you think will have a more significant effect? The deletion of three letters or the deletion of only one? Select one of these answers. And when you do, I want you to think about why that is and enter it into this text box here. Really think about this one. Don't just answer it. Don't just pick one. I want you to think about it. Have a reason reason for it. Then select an answer and tell me why in this text box here. The answer to this question might surprise you. It's not the variant with the three letters that are deleted, but the one with the single letter deletion. And the reason is incredibly interesting. Because the codon reading frame shifted. Think about it for a second. In this first scenario here, you're the ribosome, and you're reading the sequence, right. So you'd read the codon GTC C, T, C, G, T, oh my gosh, whadda we do? We're missing one. What's going to happen, is it's going to read the very next letter, and that's going to be associated with the codon GTG. Well, notice GTG is the exact same as what it was before. And now we go to ACC. And what essentially happened, is GTGAC, we skipped over this whole GTG to this ACC and every thing from here on out is pretty much the same thing. So, it's bad, right we lost three letters, but in the end we only lost one whole amino acid; where as down here, if we're at the ribosome, we get the first codon, the second codon and then we get here, skip one, got to a G well we're still the same GTG But now we're going to keep moving to the next three, and we get TGA, CCC, CTT, G, and you'll notice that these codons are not the same as these codons up here. They're very different. And on top of it, this codon here, TGA, what does that code for? It codes for a big ol' STOP codon. So this mutation here, we only deleted one letter, but it caused a frame shift. And then, we introduced an early stop code on. This is going to drastically change the protein sequence, compared to this mutation, which at this deletion here Even though the deletion was three letters and this one was only one letter, this variation is far more significant in the resulting protein. In the human population for the ABO gene, at position 258, if you have a deletion right there, then you actually have blood type O. And the reason you have blood type O is because you end up with a, a deletion that causes a premature stop codon, because we end up with this huge frame shift in the letters. For the rest of the sequence. Remember this happened very early right, in the coding region. We're only at position 250 to 270. We go all the way out to like a thousand in this gene. So at this very early position, we've got a stop code on, so we're going to end up with a much shorter protein overall. So take a minute and think. What do you think is the result of the protein's overall function. If you have a much shorter version of the protein. Think about it for a second and then put your answer in this text box here. An ABO protein that is severely shortened, right, shortened at close to the very beginning. It's only got about 1/4th of what it would normally have. It only got the like position 250 out of a total of roughly a thousand. We are most likely going to end up with a non-functional protein. Right. At this point we deleted like three quarters of the ABO protein from this single letter change in the DNA code. And as a result, we end up with blood type O. Blood type O, the reason it's letter O, the O represents the absence. Of a molecule here that would normally be added by a functioning protien. So, the ABO protien would normally add an antigen to the red blood cells. But, because it's non-functional nothing gets added. And, so we call that blood type O. It's amazing how deletion of a single letter can make the entire protein non-functional. Exactly. That single deletion of guanine and position 258 causes an early stop codon which completely shortens the protein, making it non-functional in a way that it can't even add the A antigen or the B antigen, it can't add any antigen at all, so you end up with type O. That's really awesome, but okay there is one question that's been bugging me. Okay. How does somebody end up with an AB blood type? That is a good question. What do you think? Put in the text box here how you think someone can have an AB blood type. Because we have two copies of the ABO gene, you can have one A allele, and one B allele. Exactly. Remember that if you have a A allele, you'll get the antigen A on your blood cells, and if you have a B allele, you'll get the antigen B on your blood cells. So you have both alleles you can end up with both antigens on your blood cells, and that's how you're type AB. At the beginning of this lesson we learned that there are four major ABO blood groups. We have blood group A, B, AB, and O. Now, we saw the breakdown of these blood type groups in the US population. What's really intriguing is that this describes what we see on the surface of the red blood cells. When you go to the clinic they'll tell you "What's on your blood cell? Do you have A type, B type, A and B on your cell, or no type at all, O type. But you have two alleles for the ABO gene, two possibilities. You could be two A's or two B's or an A and a B or maybe you're an A and an O. Right? And depending on those combinations together that will result in which blood type you are. I want you to tell me what the possible allele combinations are for each of these different blood type groups. I'll help you out with the first one to give you an example. To be blood type A we could have AA alleles. Or, we could have an A allele and an O allele, because the O allele wouldn't produce anything, right. We get nothing. But the A allele would put the A antigen with the A carbohydrate, on the surface of our red blood cells, because the A allele codes for the ABO protein. That will make and put the A carbohydrate on the surface of red blood cells. So these are the only two possible allele combinations we could have. I want you to fill that in for these other 3 options here. And see if you can come up with the correct allele combinations. Separate each combination with a comma, and also remember that the order of the alleles doesn't matter. Okay, so a type A blood could be the allelic combination of either two A's or an A and an O allele. Type B could be either two B alleles or a B and an O allele. For AB there's only one option. To have both A antigen and B antigen, one of your alleles must be A and one of your alleles must be B. There's no other combination of alleles that gives you AB blood type. And the same thing is true for type O. The only way you can be type O is if you have two O alleles. If you either an A or a B allele then you're going to end up with an A or B blood type. Okay, so I have two copies of the ABO gene, one from my mom and one from my dad. And together they make my blood type? Exectly. And if you have two alleles, then you'll be blood type A. But if I have two B alleles I'll be blood type B. But if I have a B and an O allele, I'll be blood type B because O doesn't make anything? Exactly and the same is true for the A blood type. You could be Two A aleles, or you can be A and O. But then for AB blood type, you'd have to have one A alele and one B alele. Exactly. Now, let's go back to the clinic. Did you ever figure out what type of blood this woman needs? We did. I mean her genotype is for type A, but we don't have type A blood at the hospital. Well, you're going to need to figure something out because if you introduce any new antigens that her body hasn't seen before, they may attack it, and they can kill her. Well, all we have are type AB, type B, and type O. Which would you give so that she has a successful blood transfusion? So a patient of blood type A can only receive blood from a individual who either has an A antigen only, or no antigen at all. So that would be either type A, which we don't have an option, or type O, which we do, thank goodness. If we gave the patient type AB or B, although this top option, AB has The possibility of an A antigen type in it. It also carries with it B, and this patient doesn't recognize B, and its body is going to mount an immune response, and attack that blood. And of course, type B by itself offers no A, right. There's just B, so the body's going to attack that. Whereas type O, doesn't have any antigen, and the body's not going to see it as a foreign object, because it's not going to recognize anything. And that way, we can successfully have the blood transfusion. It's a really good thing that he hospital had type O on hand, because there's no way she would have survived if they would have given her type B or AB. >Exactly, type O is always great type of blood to have around, because it really represents the universal donor blood type. Anyone can receive it and it just justifies how knowing your blood type can be a matter of life or death. my name is Jane Chueh, and I'm a clinical professor at the Stanford Medical School, Medical Center. Clinically, I work as a high-risk obstetrician which means we see high-risk pregnancies. And I also do fetal ultrasounds on pregnancies in general, looking for fetal anomalies. So, every patient that we see we do require that we know their blood type and Rh type. And I know you talked a lot about the A, B, O blood system. It's important because at delivery there's a chance that they may bleed whether they have a vaginal delivery or whether they have a c-section. sometimes they bleed. Most of the time they bleed very minimally, so they don't require transfusion, but occasionally, in rare cases, they have a lot of bleeding. and it becomes a very complicated case where they require,um lots of blood. if you need blood, then it's important to have the type of blood that the person receives matched to their type. So we, we want to know what that is. And in fact we actually require they be typed twice. So they're typed at a prenatal visit, and they're also typed when they come in before they receive blood. So there's two that It's that important? Th-, that is important. ' Cause you can't just could, it could be a mistake. I mean the, one, if they have just one result. So the, the policy is that there's two that actually correlate. That, that they're the same. if you don't have a blood type then, and you need blood, then the only option is, you know, the blood bank gives you universal donor, which would be O negative. but O negative is not the most common type of blood there is and, you know, you can't use up your entire pool of O negative blood. So the best thing would be to you know, give the person the type of blood that they actually have. So in pregnancy particularly the RH factor which is a rhesus blood group on the red cell is, is important this refers to a group of antigens, the most common being the D antigen. And there's a D positive group and there's a D negative antigen you know, where they, they're missing the D antigen. So everybody has two alleles, right, so there, they could be D positive D positive, or D positive D negative, or D negative D negative. So it's kind of like the O type where O is nothing whereas you have A, B or nothing. Correct, exactly. Exactly. So, just like with A blood type, you can have homozygous A, which'd be A positive, A positive, or heterozygous A which would be A plus O. A plus O, right, where A, O. And so, this becomes an issue when we find an rh negative. Woman who's neg, D negative, D negative. so if she marries a partner who is not RH negative, in other words, he's RH positive and he's either D plus D plus or D plus D negative. Both of them are which are considered you know, D or RH positive. then there's a chance that her child could be RH positive. Either D plus, well actually would have to be a 100% D plus D negative right? Right. Because one of the genes comes from her and will be D negative. And the other is going to come from her partner. So, we need to know what her partner's genotype is for the RH antigen. And we need to know if the fetus has you know, a 100% chance of being RH positive. And so just to be clear here than, the risk here is that the mother would be RH negative and the baby is RH positive Correct. And if the mother's and the baby's blood were to see each other, that the mothers blood might not recognize the RH positive in the baby blood and attack it or something? Bas, no, basically, if the mother is RH negative and sees the RH positive in the fetus' blood, fetal blood, then it will recognize it as being foreign. I see Cause she's never seen the, the Antigen until she became pregnant. So what are, besides the actual mother, mother-fetus interaction, are there any other important clinical settings related to this or otherwise, where knowing blood type's really important? just the first one. You know, for, for the mother, mostly for her-- Mostly for the mother. --her safety and if she hemorrhaged during preg, during pregnancy or delivery, that she would need blood. So. And, and there are times when, I guess, patients need a lot of blood, or a little bit of blood, I mean-- Lots. --is there ever, has there ever been a scenario where you're like, oh, gosh, I need this type of blood, but, you know, I don't have enough, or? Yes. What do you do? So yeah we have something called massive transfusion protocol. this happens when there's an,obstetrical hemorrhage disaster that happens. usually if you have time you try to give matched blood. And you know the persons blood type. especially if you anticipate the possibility and she's already been crossed and matched. but, if not, you know, you, you activate the protocol and you give O- blood. And, and we've had cases where, due to certain conditions of the placenta and the uterus. Especially one called the placenta accreta, where the placenta grows into the uterus. Where you can't remove the placenta. After delivery we have to remove the entire uterus. And there's so much blood flow that they, the mothers lose so much blood they can receive, you know, 50 to 100 units of blood. So, for all the sort of the general origin native women, they receive something called rhogam during pregnancy. Rhogam is an immune globulin that blocks, the antigens on the red cells. So if you might imagine the fetal cell trying to get into the maternal circulation if we got in there, the rhogam would just attached itself to all the sites bind all the sites so the mother can't see the antigens. That's clever. And you can't, she won't, she want amount of response So, that way, if the fetus happened to be RH positive, RH positive, that's correct, then she won't see the positive D antigen. Okay, now that you've been through the material for lesson three, I want to see if you can complete the concept map that we showed at the beginning of the lesson. Remember just fill in the blanks with one of the words you see here from the word bank. If you filled out the lesson map as we went along, you'll probably find this a little bit easier. Good luck. Let's see how you did with the concept map for lesson three. Starting here with the human genome, there's 98% of it approximately that's non-coding. It doesn't code for anything. Then about 2% of it is protein coding. But all these regions, as part of the genome, are actually made of DNA, which we learned a lot about in lesson two. And in lesson four, we will learn more about this non-coding region. But here in lesson three, we learned about the protein coding regions of the human genome, which are divided into genes. Genes can have different sequences, so they can have different versions. They can code for different things, and we call these different versions alleles. This is the word will keep coming back to in this course. And alleles originate from mutations which we'll learn about more in lesson six. Now, a protein coding gene is composed of two major kinds of sequence: introns and exons. The introns are spliced out of the message that's going to be produced, and exons are going to be kept in the messenger RNA, or mRNA. Now the process that synthesizes mRNA from the gene DNA is transcription. And it's the first part of the central dogma. Now, once you have an mRNA transcribed from the DNA gene, it's going to be translated by ribosomes into protein. Proteins are the building blocks of cells. And the essential process of genes to RNA or DNA to RNA to protein is called the Central Dogma. Now, RNA is similar to DNA, in that it's made up of nucleotides though not deoxynucleotides. And there are four types of nitrogenous bases here. Adenine, which can base-pair with uracil. Or U, a new nitrogenous base in the RNA alphabet. And we still have guanine that compare with cytosine. Now, our mRNA transcript is actually divided into codons, which are groups of three letters of nucleotides. There are a total of 64 combinations of codons that are possible, based on this grouping of three. And these 64 combinations are interpreted as the genetic code. And in the genetic code, we have three stop codons, one start codon, and all the rest code for 20 different types of amino acids. These amino acids make up proteins, and these protiens are the building blocks of your cells that make up who you are. I hope this helps clear up some of the major concepts you learned about in lesson three. In this lesson, we've learned some new concepts that can be summarized into four main points. Point one. Genomic information is organized into both coding and non-coding sequences. And it's these coding regions of genes that are turned into proteins, which are one of the major active components of cells. Point two. A gene is transcribed into an MRNA copy that leaves the nucleus and is translated by ribosomes in the cytoplasm into amino acids that make up proteins. The code is read in sets of three nucleotides called a codon and this whole process is referred to as, the central dogma. Point three. The genetic code is non-overlapping and any change in the sequence may or may result in overall changes to the amino acids. And point four different versions of genes are referred to as alleles. And although all humans have two copies or two alleles of almost every gene. Many different alleles can exist for any given gene in a population. So the ABO gene codes for the ABO protein, and depending on what type of alleles I have, determines my blood type, A, B, AB, or O. Exactly. And the cool thing about alleles is that they don't just apply to coding regions of our genome, there are also alleles for non-coding regions, and that's the subject of our next lesson, where we'll talk about one allele. In a non-coding region of a gene that controls a very important trait near and dear to my heart. That's right. The ability to drink milk or not. Cheers. Cheers. Milk, it's one of my favorite drinks. Especially when you have fresh baked cookies right out of the oven. I love it. Hm, but, not everyone can enjoy such a delicious combination. After drinking milk or other dairy products, like all food, it travels to the stomach, where the body continues to break down the food into smaller components for energy. Now the cells within the stomach control what gets into the body. Lactose, a main ingredient of all dairy products, is composed of two smaller sugars that together are too big to get past the stomach cell lining. So these cells produce an enzyme called lactase, that is secreted to digest the two ring lactose into the separate sugars, glucose and galactose, which can readily pass through the stomach's cell lining, into the body for further metabolism. Without lactase, lactose would travel right through the body undigested until it reaches the colon where bacteria end up breaking the lactose down using a fermentation process that produces a lot of gas. This also throws off the water balance in the body, leading to an increased flow of water to the bowels which results in, you guessed it, symptoms of lactose intolerance. That sounds like no fun. I don't think I'd like to be lactose intolerant. It's really not that bad guys. Hey Hsiao-Lu, I didn't know you were lactose intolerant. That's right, I am. As a baby, I was able to drink milk. But as I got older, I stopped being able to process it. So, what that means is that I'm unable to eat anything that contains dairy products, like cheese and ice cream. Ooh. Yeah, but. [LAUGH] You know, the consequences are such that you want to avoid them. Genetically speaking, why do you think Hsao-Lu's lactose intolerant? Choose one of these answers, and then tell me why by typing a response in this text box. It's most likely Hsiao-Lu isn't transcribing or translating her gene as an adult. Even though she could as a child. This would result in a decrease lactase activtiy, but increase lactose intolerance symptoms. >Exactly the reason it's not likely she has a mutation or an allele of the lactase gene that doesn't work or is non-functional. Is because we know she could digest lactose products as a baby, if she had a lactase gene that didn't work at all, then she would also not have been able to drink milk as a baby. Which would have been problematic in general. So the fact that she could drink milk as a baby means that its most likely that she has a functioning lactase gene but its just turned off, as an adult. So, which is it? Do I not have a lactase protein or do I have one that's non-functional? Well, although it's possible to have a non-functional lactase protein, we're pretty sure you did because, as a baby, you were able to drink milk. So in your case, we would presume that you have the lactase gene, but it's just not expressed any more. Oh, once again Matt. What exactly do you mean by expressed? What we mean by expressed is whether or not a gene is transcribed and translated and turned into protein. So a gene that's on, or expressed, means a gene that's actually transcribed and translated into protein. And a gene that's off or not expressed, is a gene that's not transcribed at all. So, it's not that Shalu doesn't have the lactase gene, it's just that it's not turned on. Exactly, in this lesson, we're going to learn how turning genes on and off is just as important as making sure they have the right coding sequence for a functional protein. We're going to focus particularly on the non coding regions that can control whether or not a gene starts transcription or not. Now why don't you tell us? Are you lactose intolerant like Shalu is? Check yes or no. Take a look at the concept map for Lesson Four that's laid out for you right here. Again there are some blanks, for you to fill in as we go throughout the lesson. I'd love for you to print this off. You can find it in the instructor's notes here on this page. If you do need the complete version now, because it helps you learn better, you can just skip to the end of the lesson, download it from the instructor's notes. And then use that. But for the rest of you, I really want you to print this off with the blank and fill them in as we go through the lesson as we get to that part and figure out what the answer is because at the end of the lesson we'll have a chance for you to assess your knowledge one more time. In the last lesson we learned exactly how an individual gene gets turned into a protein. This genetic code we analogize to a book of recipes representing our genome.We want to revisit this analogy for this lesson but we going to think about it a little bit different. Instead of these ingredents being used to make a single protein. We're going to take each of these ingredients individually as a its own protein to build a particular trait or even a whole human being. Let's get started. And, if we want to build a human being the first thing I'm going to do is take our ingredient which represents one protein. And then then I'll start measuring out one tablespoon. Okay. Okay so this is one protein? That's right. Well, one human coming right up. Lauren, did you just pour all of the flour in the bowl? Yeah, you said flour was in the recipe, and I'm assuming it takes a lot of flower to make a human. We're huge. This is true, but it's like a gene. You can't add the whole thing at once. You've got to add the right amount at the right time to get the right produce. Well, I'm sorry, but I guess you're right. There are over 20,000 genes in the human genome. If we added all of them all at once all at the same time, every cell would be identical. Because they'd all have the same ingredients at the same time, and obviously that's not what we want. To get different cell types at different times, we actually need to add different ingredients at different times in different amounts. So we must specify these ingredients, and we have to specify the amounts. Well where does the specificity come from. Like how does a skin cell know to be a skin cell, and how does a brain cell know to be a brain cell? The short answer is development. Development is a process by which the right gene is added at the right time to make the right cell type. It's how cell knows to be a certain cell type out of the many thousands it could possibly be, for example, the cells in your hand. In this lesson, we're going to learn about how a gene's expression, is regulated. So let me get this straight, the main difference between a brain cell, and say, a stomach cell, is just the expression of a gene? Exactly. This gene expression pattern is analgous to our recipe again. We're going to be looking at how a cell decides to add a cup of sugar, versus a tablespoon of sugar, versus No sugar at all. Well, let's go back to our lactose metabolism example, which the main ingredient is the lactase gene. If we search all across the human genome for the lactase gene, we'll find it here on chromosome two. Now, let's zoom in on chromosome two just a little bit, and we can see what we'd imagine it would look like. Remember, I'm showing the non-duplicated chromosomes here because this is what they mainly exist as. In the karyotype here, we're looking at the duplicated chromosomes, which is why they look like Xs, but here. They don't. You have two chromosome 2's, one from mom, one from dad. Chromosome 2 is the next largest chromosome in the whole genome, at approximately 243 million base pairs long. The lactase gene is located approximately half-way along Chromosome 2. Remember you've got Two copies, one of mom's chromosome and one of dad's chromosome. If we were to zoom into this region of chromosome two to look further at the lactase gene, we'd see that it's actually composed of about 17 exons spanning more than 50,000 base pairs of DNA. After transcription and splicing, removing all the introns that can be found in this gene We're left with about 6,200 nucleotide of an MRNA copy of the lactase gene. Now if we take a look at that lactase MRNA, we'll see that between the start and the stop codon, including the start and stop codon, we have 5,784 nucleotides of information. Now based on what you've learned so far, I want you to tell me how many amino acids would be translated by a ribosome using this mRNA sequence here. We have 5784 nucleotides, including the start and stop codons and everything in between. If you need help answering this question it's probably cause you need to go back and review some material in lesson three. If you think the genetic code will help you answer this question, you can find it in the instructor's notes below. Go ahead and put your best number answer into this text box. The answer is 1,927 amino acids. Now if you had any trouble coming up with this, it's probably because you need to go back and really focus on what gets translated by a ribosome. We know that between the start and stop codons, the ribosome starts reading at the start codon and stops reading at the stop codon. And for this sequence we have 5,784 nucleotides. So if we actually divide three right, which is the number of nucleotides in a codon. Right, the section that a ribosome reads, and divide that into the total number of nucleotides we get 1,928. But why did we not get 27? Remember that 1928 includes the stop codon, but the stop codon doesn't have an amino acid associated with it. The start codon does, right? It has methionine or MET met, or M. But the stop doesn't have any amino acid associated with it. So we'd get 1928 when we divide 5784 by 3. But then we need to subtract one, because the last codon isn't turned into an amino acid. And so then we're left with 1927 amino acids. Let's be clear, drinking milk is a really important trait. In fact, it defines an entire group in the animal kingdom called mammals, which we are. Mammals are defined as a group of animals that can breast feed their young with breast milk. And this is possible because we have a lactase gene that's transcribed and translated into the lactase protein, which is able to metabolize lactose found in breast milk. And breast milk is one of the best sources of nutrients for newborn babies. But eventually we grow up and we grow out of drinking breast milk and on to solid foods. This process, this transition from going from breast milk to solid food is something we call weaning. And there are lots of changes that happen when an animal actually is weaned off of breast milk. And one of the most important changes relevant to what we're talking about is that, that lactase gene turns off. However, a recent mutation at least in an evolutionary sense, allows the lactase gene to stay turned on, which allows us to drink lactose products throughout our life. For example, milk. This mutation or change in the DNA sequence. I want you to tell me if you think it actually occurs in the coding region of the lactase gene or the non-coding regions of the lactase gene. Go ahead and pick which answer you think is the best, and put in your best reason in the text box here. Don't worry about getting the text box answer right or wrong, just give it your best shot. A mutation in the non-coding region is the most likely explanation for lactase persistence over time. Now, a mutation in the coding region would likely alter the functionality of the latcatse protein. And we know this probably isn't true, because this would happen in both the baby and the adult. And here we know that the baby could metabolize lactose, whereas the adult could not. A mutation in the non-coding region would allow us to decrease the transcription of the lactation gene without affecting the overall functionality of the lactase protein. The vast majority of the human genome is actually made up of non coding sequences. In fact, less than 2% of our genetic code is actually information that codes for proteins. Now for some people this could actually be rather shocking, and a lot or research in the scientific community has gone into figuring out what that other 98% does. A recent report by the Encode project or the encyclopedia of DNA elements have revealed that up to 80% of our human Genome is involved in some sort of roller activity through binding the proteins and regulating gene expressing even the production of other types of RNA that aren't ultimately turned into protein. This means that the vast majority of our genomic information doesn't actually code for the physical stuff that makes up who we are, but instead regulates the expression of the coding parts, so that they're turned on at the right time and the right place. After all, that's what's most important in the recipe after we define our ingredients. Some of the most important regions for turning on coding genes the right time and the right place are called promoters. A promoter is simply a region of non-coding DNA that initiates transcription of a particular gene. Now what's really important to realize if this is new to you That this is not a start codon. This is not the same thing as a start codon. Remember that a start codon is important for translation of an [UNKNOWN] sequence into amino acids. The promoter is indicating the initiation of transcription which is very different, right, it's the first step in the central dogma. Take a look here at this hypothetical gene sequence. We have five axons in purple, and four entrons in between these five axons. This arrow right here indicates the initiating point for transcription. The plus one says hey, this is the first nucleotide that's transcribed here in this processing going from the gene to the MRNA copy. And transcription is going to start here at this plus one site and go all the way to this line here, where it stops. The introns will be spliced out, and we'll get an mRNA copy of just the exons. What I want you to tell is, which region you think is most likely to be the promoter region. This region here in front of the gene before transcription begins? This region here, in the middle of the gene, where we see it spans one exon, an intron, and another exon? Or do you think it's this region over here, after transcription's already terminated for the gene? Go ahead and pick which region you think is most likely the promoter. And then I want you to tell me why by writing a brief response in this text box here. Now the answer to this question is most likely this first region down here. And the reason is because it's in front of where the mRNA synthesis will likely begin, here. This will allow all the important proteins necessary for the process to assemble and initiate transcription from here onwards. Promoters are typically found in front of the transcription initiation site. Though, they don't always have to be. This serves an obvious purpose as a landing platform for all the proteins that come together to initiate transcription at this spot here. Remember, in the cellular world proteins make the world go round. Now there's a generic class of proteins referred to as transcription factors. Which are just proteins that bind DNA and regulate the initiation of transcription. As you can imagine, many of these proteins, many of these transcription factors, essentially bind in this promoter region. And physically regulate the initiation of transcription via chemistry. Now, not only can these proteins interact with the DNA of the promoter region. But they interact with each other as well. You can sort of see that depicted here. They're all bound to one another. And through these many interactions, they're able to facilitate the overall outcome for this particular gene. Now, although this is ultimately chemistry. We become pretty good at representing chemistry with our letter symbols. Let's imagine that one of the transcription factors up here, one of these proteins, is actually binding to a very specific sequence here in the DNA. TGACGTCA. Let's just say there was a change in this sequence here so that this G is missing, there's a small deletion, let's say. And now the sequence reads TGAC-TCA. Do you think this change in the DNA sequence at a promoter region would result in the transcription factor binding more tightly, less tightly, or not at all? Now the answer to this can be a little tricky and even somewhat debatable, but our answer here is that the transcription factor would bind less tightly. Now it probably wouldn't bind more tightly in this scenario. Because we set it up as the protein binds the sequence really well and then we change that sequence. So we wouldn't expect a protein to be able to, at the very least, bind as well. It is possible in some scenarios that we lose the ability to bind all together. But in general, in any given sequence of DNA one protein is making contact at multiple points, at multiple letters. So any given sequence, there are multiple important points of contact. And changing just one of them won't completely obliterate the ability of the protein to bind. But you will diminish its ability to bind tightly. So if we had deleted this whole sequence altogether, at that point we're looking at something where the transcription factor wouldn't bind at all. Now as is true for virtually everything in biology, there are exceptions to every rule. And there may be a scenario out there where you delete one letter and the whole protein can't bind anymore. And we'll even talk about different scenarios at some point, where one change in the letter might actually result in a higher affinity binding. the protein binding more tightly. But for right now are basic purposes, we just wanted to emphasize the point that proteins bind specific DNA sequences. And when we change those sequences, or when they're different of not optimal, that the protein usually binds less tightly. There's less of an affinity because we're talking about chemistry here All transcription factors have an optimal DNA sequence that they can bind strongly to. Let's use the example that we just looked at. If we use this sequence, what this means is that, a transcription factor, if it's present, will bind this sequence, and strongly. But because this is chemistry, if we change 1 or 2 of the letters here, then we're going to change the interaction that the protein can have with sequence After all the protein can still recognize other letters in the sequence. So we expect it to still be able to bind, but maybe not as strongly. So if we change the sequence to something like this what will happen is the protein can still bind, but less strongly and less frequently thus reducing overall transcription. Determining the optimal transcription factor binding site can be pretty difficult. And usually has to be determined empirically. What that means, is, we normally have to go to the lab to figure it out. But that's not always an easy thing to do. And sometimes, it's a little faster to do what we call sequence comparisons, or sequence alignments. What this means is instead of going into the lab I am going to take, let's say 5 or 6 different individuals and I am going to take the transcription factor binding inside sequence for this person and that person and that person and that person and I am going to line them all up together, one on top of the other. For instance I have these 6 sequences right here, hypothetically speaking off course from 6 different individuals. And when you line them all up like this, hopefully what you notice first off is that there are very few differences in the overall sequences. But at any given position, you can see that there's a dominant nucleotide in that column. We call this the consensus, or the agreement, right, because most of the letters in that column are one letter or another. So what I want you to try to do right now is looking at these six sequence alignments, tell me what you think the consensus sequence is for this transcription factor binding site. Now hopefully lining up all these sequences together makes it pretty easy to see what the consensus sequence should be. Now if we actually take this problem for what it is, look at the first column or the first position, and we see that pretty much all the letters are thymines or Ts and there's one A or adenine. So we would say that he consensus letter for this first position is thymine or T. And if we do this for all the other positions, we get the consensus sequence, which should be TGACGTCA. By comparing multiple sequence alignments, we can arrive at a consensus sequence for a transcription factor binding site that's optimal. Now when scientists normally carry experiments like this out, they may compare tens, hundreds, and even thousands of sequences. And what this means is, that we will end up with a consensus sequence that no individual sequence in our analysis actually had, and that's okay. We still reason that the consensus sequence itself is the optimal binding site. And that any deviation, any variation from this sequence would result in reduced binding or activity. Of course in the end, any claim like that must be tested empirically in the lab. Now in the human genome, there's a consensus sequence that's usually about 30 to 40 base pairs away, in front of the transcription start site of most genes. So here we have the transcription start site indicated by the arrow and the plus one. The coding region is over here to the right. And in front of it over here, we have the promoter region. And in the same way that we would start counting plus one, plus two, plus three, down our coding region. And that would start measuring counting right the number of letters that are going to be in our mRNA transcript. We can start counting backwards to get the numbered positions for our promoter region. So we have minus one, and minus two and minus three. And we can go on back to the minus 30 to the minus 40 region. So let's focus in on this region about 30 or 40 letters or base pairs upstream or in front of this transcription initiation site. Here, I'm showing you six different samples. Not different genes, not different promoters. The same promoter from six different people, let's say. So we have six different people and this is their sequence. The, the letters in their promoter region at this minus 30 to minus 40 region in front of a specific gene in their genome. What I want you to tell me now that you've learned about what a consensus sequence is, is look at these six different sequences and tell me what is the consensus sequence for these six positions in the minus 30 to minus 40 region of the promoter for this hypothetical gene. The answer to this question is T, A, T, A, A, A. And the way you want to come up with that is, we're going to go position by position. Let's imagine that we're working our way backwards, right, in the promoter region; minus 30, minus 31, 32, minus 40, wherever we happen to be at in the sequence. Let's take this first position. We have six different samples. Person 1 has a A here, person 2 has a T, person 3 has a T, person 4 has a T, person 5 has an A, and person 6 has a T. There are four T's and two A's. The consensus, right, the agreed position is simply the majority. The T, the thymine wins out. So we have a T here in this position. The second position in this sequence A, A, A, T, A, A, the dominant position, right, the consensus is adenine or A. The next position, T,T,T,A,T,A, again T wins. A,A,A,A,A,A wins. A,T,A,A,A,A, A wins again. And T,A,T,A,A,A. A wins again. And that's how we get the consensus sequence TATAAA or TATAAA. Okay kids, it does not get much better than this. I hope you didn't think I was leading you on because I was not joking about this tata box. The t-a-t-a-a-a sequence, otherwise known as the tata box, is a real thing, and it's also real in the lactase gene. Here we have the plus one transcription start sign, the lactase gene That's why I started capitalizing the letters. In green here, we have the ATG, which would be transcribed, right, to the AUG in the mRNA. This would be where translation would start for the lactase coding region, and we'd get our protein. But how does this transcript even start? We need this tata sequence in front. This consensus tata squence is a core piece of the promoter region, of the lactase gene. Without this TATA region, the correct proteins can't bind and facilitate the initiation of transcription which begins right here. Everything that happens for transcription depends on sequences like this TATA sequence in the promoter region. Now what you're about to hear is not made up. It's not hypothetical. This is reality. In the lactase gene, if we zoom out, right, we'll see that this tata region is about minus 30, right. It's 30 base pairs, 30 letters in front of the transcription initiation site for the lactase gene. And if we zoom out and look at the whole chromosome where the lactase gene is sitting, We can put this in context. The TATA-box in this sense is right next to the transcription start site. It turns out that some people in the human population have a letter difference, a letter change, in the non-coding region, in front of the lactase gene, that significantly affects the expression of lactase. Its own transcription And the amazing thing is that this letter, this single letter variation in humans, that affects transcription of the lactase gene, is more than 20,000 letters, or base pairs away from the transcription initiation site. This is not just like that tata region, right? Minus 30 in front. We are 20,000 letters away and we're effecting transcription right here. Now, that's going to take some explaining. Imagine that I am holding a piece of chromosome 2 right here and the part that I am holding contains the lactase gene going of to my left. The promoter region would be right here next to the lactase gene ready to start transcription and turn it on or off, and the mutation that controls lactase expression. All the way down there where Lauren is 20,000 letters away is the mutation we've been talking about. I feel so far away from this gene. How in the world could it be affecting it? I don't know. That's a really good question. Why don't you think about it. How do you think a letter, a change so far away could affect transcription 20,000 letters away at the promoter. Okay, let's get the answer. Lauren, how are we going to get your sequence close to my tata box? Matt, I'm right here. Oh. No need to yell. Actually, that works great. Remember, even though DNA is really long and thin, it makes it really flexible, so that all DNA has to do is fold up and bring sequences really far away to sequences that matter. So I'm approaching and I bind the sequence tens of thousand of letters away. And even though she's that far away from the start of the gene, it's okay, because DNA can fold as we saw just a second ago, and now, her sequence is actually really close to the beginning of the gene or the TATA-box region here. So if I'm a protein that promotes transcription, what am I called? Well, a sequence that promotes transcription here at this site would be called an enhancer. Now, not all sequences have to promote transcription. Some of them inhibit transcription, and we call those sequences silencers. Now, If we know that the effect of an enhancer or a silencer is because of whether or not the protein is bound or not. I want you to look at the following scenarios, and tell me which scenario matches with which level of transcription. This could be a little tricky. So focus on each picture, and see if you can match which ones belong to each other. Match the scenario on the left with the amount of transcription expected on the right. There are three scenarios here on the left, three scenarios on the right. The ones on the right are lettered A, B and C. Just put the letter in the box that corresponds to the situation on the left, where you'd expect that situation to be a match. I know we just learned a lot of new terminology, but hopefully you're able to breeze right through this one. Now we have three scenarios, a lot of transcription, a medium amount of transcription, and no transcription. If we need to match the scenario on the right with the scenario on the left, so which scenario on the left would give us, let's say the least amount of transcription. Well, obviously if our silencer is bound, that silence is transcription. Enhancer enhances transcription. So if we've silenced our transcription and we don't have anything to help enhance, this is probably the scenario which we're going to have little to no transcription at all. The scenario above it, however, we have the enhancer bound and the silencer's unbound. Remember the proteins mitigate the effects ,of what these non-coding regions can do. So a bound enhancer is going to enhance transcription, an unbound silencer won't be able to silence transcription. And so this is going to be our most active transcription here, lots of transcription. So the answer to this one is A. And that leaves this last scenario, where we don't have a bound enhancer, we don't have a bound silencer. The promoter is left to initiate whatever transcription it can on its own. And so we reach the scenario of some transcription. It depends entirely on the promoter region itself. But in general, there's going to be some transcription that happens at the site. But because there's no enhancer or silencer bound, we're not going to have these extremes show up, where we have a lot of transcription happening, or no transcription happening. Transcription factors that bind enhancer regions of DNA and activate transcription, are called activators. And transcription factors that bind silencer regions of DNA and repress transcription are called repressors. Now in reality, most genes are actually a mix of both activators and repressors. Giving us a very fine tuned gene expression pattern. Of course this is called combinatorial regulation because there's a combination of both activators and repressors. And a certain trait can appear or disappear depending on the threshold of transcription that we reach. For example, let's look at our trait of lactose intolerance. If my hands here represent the scales of a balance of lactose intolerance We're going to look at how transcription can affect this particular trait. Over here, we'll have lactose intolerance and over here we'll have lactose tolerance. As a baby, many of us can digest lactose in breastmilk. In fact, we can do this because we have enough lactase being expressed from the lactase gene. Having a lot of lactase will allow us to digest that lactose, and we won't show signs of lactose intolerance. In fact, we'll be lactose tolerant. But as we get older, gene transcription begins to slow or diminish in some people, particularly those like Shao Lu. And instead we reach a threshold, we reach a critical tipping point. Where we have so little lactose that we don't have enough to digest the lactose in our diet. And instead the lactose stays around and gets digested by all that bacteria and we have symptoms of lactose intolerance. So, my name is Ryan, I'm, live in Palo Alto, but I'm from Maryland and I am lactose intolerant. For everybody out there, who doesn't know what lactose intolerance is, tell us briefly what being lactose intolerant means. in briefly, it means I can't have milk or other dairy products without experiencing some discomfort. [INAUDIBLE] I see. Discomfort and can you elaborate a little bit on discomfort? Sure. discomfort typically means it's digestive discomfort. So it's gas, bloating, diarrhea, that sort of thing. is anyone else in your family lactose intolerant? Yes, my younger sister is, but I have a brother who is not and my parents are not. Okay so do you, do you have any experience with this being a genetic trait? Like do, does this run in your family, being lactose intolerant? I actually don't know because most of my family lives in the Philippines and they don't drink cow milk. They have, they drink powdered milk and all this and not dairy products. Because it's not as popular there, so it wasn't until I discovered I was lactose intolerant that I learned anything about it. And when did you discover that you were lactose intolerant? I would say that would be about two or three years ago. So. Really? That late in life, huh? Yes. But then when I found I was lactose intolerant, it kind of explained some things from when I was younger. because there were times like, when I would have dairy products and I'd be fine, but then there were times if I had too much, I'd felt, I felt a little gassy. But when I discovered I was lactose intolerant, it kind of made sense that if I was young and overloaded on it, it made sense that, that I would feel discomfort. I see so when you were young though, you felt like you could have normal amounts and you were okay. Mm-hm. Right. It wasn't until graduate school. Until, yeah about two years ago, that I discovered that I was lactose intolerant. And I think it's because that's when it kind of just, when it really just kind of shut off. Right, right. How did that make you feel to sort of discover this about yourself? Well, I guess that it kind of made sense to me because I, it explained a lot of things about why I'd randomly feel sick some days. And why I wouldn't other days, just depending on my breakfast. But, it was kind of annoying to find out mostly, because I knew I'd have to either change my diet or. Right. Other things also So, what are the kinds of food you actually have to avoid if you are a lactose intolerant person? if you are lactose intolerant and you're not taking any type of supplement. Then you basically have to avoid anything that has appreciable amount of dairy products in it. So, obviously I'm not going to to be drinking a lot of straight milk, ice cream, pizzas with a lot of cheese on it. taco, taco, American-style tacos, oreos, all those things, cake, cheesecake. so what you're saying is that there's a lot of food restrictions? Yes, it is there's a lot, a huge part of the diet that is, has diary products in it. And so discovering lactose intolerant kind of, makes it more difficult to get that so. So do you find yourself in situations, I guess social situations where you see a food come out and you're like oh gosh, I really want that. And you're like oh gosh I can't eat it Yes. especially I do, I do try to carry around lactase pills lactase enzyme pills, but if I don't have them then yes. If someone's like. Let's go out for ice cream. I go, oh, I guess I can't. Or you know. Or if there's pizza. Especially if people you know, at the last minute want to get pizza or certain, go out for dinner and we haven't decided. If they suggest pizza, I got, I have to go, oh, I don't, I can't really eat that. Are people receptive to this when you tell them, like if you tell a group of friends or even new people. Like hey, I'm lactose intolerant, you know, can, you know, can we do something else, can we get something else? Are people normally receptive? Yes. especially in California actually, because in California a lot of people are, know people with various dietary restrictions or go on different diets and so. It's definitely, it hasn't really effected my social life. It just means that we do something else. You mentioned lactase pills. What exactly is a lactase pill? Where do you get it? How much does it cost? A lactase pill is just a little pill about a little less than an inch big, by a quarter inch, that is just a number of units of lactase enzyme. So lactose intolerant means my body doesn't produce lactose any more, which is the enzyme that breaks down the lactose sugar into two different sugars. So this pill I eat it, I always buy the fast act pill, so I can just eat it with my first bite of food and it kind of dissolves. And has to break down all the sugars in my stomach. And so I take that with my first bit of dairy and then I'm usually good for about 45 minutes before I have to take another one. Well how much do they cost? I would say it's about $0.10 a pill. So 120 would be about $12 to $13 at Safeway, for example. is this a trait you would ever want to change about yourself at all? Definitely. I just feel I mean, being lactose intolerant just means, I can live my same life and eat the same amount of. Eat the same foods and do the same things I want to. But I just have to spend more money to do it, because I buy the lactase, lactose free milk and I buy the lactase pills to supplement other meals. Have you ever gotten your own personal genetic information done from a company like 23andMe? Yes I have. And did, what did that tell you about you being lactose intolerant? Did it confirm this or? it confirmed I have the geno-type that is likely lactose intolerant. Because since lactose intolerant can also depend on environmental factors, like your actual gut bacteria that breaks down the lactose. It means I have the tendency to be lactose intolerant, but it doesn't mean I am. The only way you can confirm that you are is to kind of know that you are. What would you say if you could give advice to somebody who is, let's say we're talking to Ryan three years ago before he found out he was lactose intolerant. And he, you know, just discovered that you're lactose intolerant, what advice would you give that person? I think the first advice would be to test your limits on lactose tolerance. So I can have a bite of ice cream, or one nacho with cheese, or, but then won't bother. So, like, knowing your limit on what you can have without any kind of supplement is useful. And also to just make the decision whether you're going to change your diet or buy the pills, or some kind of combination of both. Just kind of, figure it out. Or I'm looking to lactose free alternatives to milk, or they even have lactose free ice cream now, but it's very expensive. Sure. So it's like Is it worth it to buy the ice cream? So you don't have to take pills, or do you want to take pills every single time you eat ice cream, sort of thing. It's kind of just, decide all the different ways to manage your lactose intolerance and figure out which way is the best for you. Well, thank you for coming in and chatting with us. Yeah thanks for talking with me, I don't get to talk about this that often. [LAUGH]. In humans lactase persistent is characterized by the continued expression of lactase into adulthood, there are two sequence positions in humans that correlate with lactase persistence phenotypes, we have letters at position minus 13910 based pairs in front of the transcription start site. And we have another position a minus 22,018 base pairs or a letters in front of the transcription start site. Now a G and a C at this positions will result in low or completely non lactase persistence so, as you get older, you don't keep expressing lactase where as an A and a T, this position do correlate with lactase persistence into adulthood. Therefore, which position combination, the top combination the G and the C of these positions or the A and the T at the bottom positions, would you most likely expect to be associated with lactose intolerance? Remember, you need to think about what the trait of lactase persistence is. How it relates to lactose intolerance. And which of these scenarios, right? Which of these letter combinations. Is going to give you or be associated with lactose intolerance. Go ahead and select one of them now. So the answer to this question is the top combination, the G and C. Remember that the G and C combinations reduce lactase expression into adulthood, without lactase we can't digest lactose and so we're going to show symptoms of lactose intolerance. So this top scenario will give us lactose intolerance whereas the bottom scenario allows for maintained expression of lactase into adulthood. So, we're going to be able to digest lactose and we're not going to show symptoms of lactose intolerance. I can't imagine living in a world without being able to drink milk with my cookies. But fortunately today, we have the ability to digest lactose products even if you're lactose intolerant. Some companies actually sell a product which is lactase in pill form. You don't make lactase? No problem. They'll try to provide it for you in a bioactive form to help you digest that lactose. Essentially what it does is put the lactase in your stomach to digest the lactose so that the bacteria in your gut doesn't have to do it and you don't have to get those side effects. So let's take this scenario, Miriam is lactate non persistent meaning that she shows signs of lactose intolerance. After hanging out with some friends they decide to go out for ice cream which has lactose in it. So she wouldn't be left out, Miriam took a lactase pill so that she could enjoy the ice cream with her friends, without all the side effects of lactose intolerance. So I want you to tell me, which of the following statements apply to Miriam? Make sure to check all statements that apply. Because Miriam is lactase non-persistent, she doesn't transcribe the lactase gene. But the pill directly provides her with active lactase. It's important to recognize that the pill isn't altering transcription or translation in any way or the DNA or genetic sequence. It's simply providing her with a temporary relief of active protein. Okay, I had a question. Now, why would the lactase gene be turned off in the first place? That's a good question, but we should really flip it around and ask why would the lactase gene be turned back on in the first place? Evolutionarily speaking, the natural state is for the lactase gene to turn off after you're weaned off of breast milk. So, the question of why it turned back on, we really need to go talk to an expert who can tell us a lot about human evolution and the trait of lactose intolerance. My name is Bill Durham. I'm Bing Professor in Human Biology, in human biology and anthropology at Stanford University. Well, we're really happy you're joining us, especially to talk about a very important concept. Now, we've just been learning about lactose intolerance, and about the idea that as all infants, we had the ability as mammals to digest these lactose containing products. And as we get older, our lactase expression diminishes. But in some people, the lactase gene sort of stays on, and we continue to make lactase. And so I guess we'll start out by asking, why, in human evolution, would something like this happen? How could something like this even happen? Well from a pan-mammalian background, where the lactase activity peaks around birth and then tails off quickly into the weaning period and into adulthood, we assume, we know that that's pan-mammalian. Even your house cat is lactose malabsorbed, a malabsorber or lactose intolerant. At least every house cat that's been tested is, even though people will give milk to their house cats. And we don't know is whether the people have found the threshold, or the cat's found the threshold, to avoid diearaha and other consequences. What's interesting, then, is from that background of a peak, some human populations show persistant lactase activity into adulthood, while the majority continue to decline. So it's that, minority of lactose-tolerant adults that are really fascinating. it's a wonderful question. Because here's a case where you have an intraspecific polymorphism. You have the existence in, if the ongoing persistence of a genetic difference between human populations, with regard to some relatively simple trait. And a trait that has to be relatively recent in human history. Sure. There were no sources of milk prior to dairy animals. [LAUGH]. So, what we have here is, I mean, of the mother's milk, there were no mammalian sources of milk for human populations before agriculture. So, we assume that the panamalian background, means that at the dawn of history, human populations were all lactose intolerant. And that there would be at best, a mutationly low frequency of individuals that varied on that characteristic. And because it was a very low variation and there was no milk available, we would have no way of knowing how much there was or how often it recurred and so on. But what we have then, in the meantime, is this great invention called agriculture. The domestication of plants and animals at the service of the human food supply. We have every reason to believe that, the main animals that are used for milk today were originally domesticated for meat. They were valued first for meat, and that milk was, as the expression goes, was part of a secondary products revolution where they realize you could use more then the meat from these animals. Goat, sheep, you know, cattle and so on. And so they already probably had them in close association with human communities. They were probably already harvesting the meat regularly. They probably had mastered, over winter, water supply, hearding activities, and that sort of thing. And then suddenly there's evidence for using the, the milk product of these animals. some of the earliest evidence comes from Sahara rock paintings that are dated to 4,500 B.P., that show, in fact, bringing the calf up near the female, the adult female, and a human being underneath. Now we infer that the human being underneath is doing this. What else is a human being doing under a cow? [LAUGH] and the question really is what was the added value of drinking fresh milk? It's complicated on the one hand, because you had the meat value of these animals you domesticated. So, it seems unlikely that it would be just the protein or food supply. Yet, that was important to our argument. The question, and it's also complicated because, there are ways to get some food value from milk without drinking it fresh. You can all societies that I know of, have ways of processing fresh milk into low lactose forms. Sour milk is a low lactose form. All the things like yogurt and kefir, drinks that are widely known in some places, and most cheeses, break down the lactose externally using lactobacillus bacteria, using a separation of curds and whey. Lactose is water soluble, it drains off with the whey, and the curds are free of lactose. So most cheeses have very little lactose concentration, something like yogurt is full of lactobacillus, that's already digesting. Sure. The lactose for human consumption. So here's the real challenge. In a world where most populations have ways to process milk and to get everything that's in the milk. Mm-hm. Why would some populations still evolve this persistent lactase activity? Sure. Because there are external sources of lactase, why does it have, what, what was the advantage of producing it internally to the human organism? The leading argument of the day is that calcium, that the advantage of drinking fresh milk, is the advantage of an additional calcium supply especially in areas where there is, a calcium deficiency caused either by inadequate calcium in the diet. Well, that's not too likely if you're drinking milk. Sure. but a vitamin D scarcity. And then people say, well, what's the advantage? Milk is obviously rich in calcium but what's the advantage of having why, why can't you again just eat the yogurt? Mm-hm. And why can't you again just eat the milk product, the cheese, which is going to have the calcium in it? Except for the water soluble calcium which you might lose some of. What's interesting with some research what's called the lactose effect. If you feed human infants from birth, in a compare, a controlled comparison, cow's milk Mm-hm. from birth, or mother's milk, versus soy milk, you see, beginning in a matter of, of a few days, you see a big differential in the amount of bone absorbed calcium, in other words, the calcification of bone Mm-hm. Is enhanced, you can, this is controlling for the amount of calcium, you take soymilk, and you supplement the calcium in it, so that it matches the cows milk. They have the same calcium, and the presence of the lactose enhances the absorption of the calcium according to this, these data. it's a magnificent curve and it, what it shows is that the ability to drink fresh milk has the advantage of making the calcium that's there in equal proportion in the two milks. It makes it more available to the infants who can absorb, who can digest the lactose. So what's particularly interesting about that is it's saying that a lactase persistence compensates for the vitamin D deficiency that's built into the solar radiation pattern on the surface of our Earth. So that milk, like epidermal demelanization, they follow similar curves. Mm-hm. And that you get the persistent lactase activity. And the lactose tolerance at high latitudes. Right. And just to sort of reword what you say here to make sure you know we're clear on this, in the case for skin pigmentation, as you've sort of alluded to, the idea is as human migration moved away from the equator Yeah. to higher and I guess we should also say lower latitudes Yes. They had less sunlight and so they Well, you can say higher latitudes north and south. Sure higher latitudes north and south. They lost pigmentation in the skin, because they needed to let more sunlight in for vitamin D. There was selection for the entrance of more sunlight. It wasn't that they recognized the need. Sure. Good, yes. Exactly The same with milk, it wasn't that we were sitting around here, wow, hoping and wishing we could have another source of calcium. What's happening is that those that happened to have this Mm hm. Out-reproduced by, you can even test whether it's a 3%, a 2%, a 5%. How much does the difference have to be in the long run, in terms of differential survival and reproduction, in order for this to work out in the time frame that we have from 4,500 years B.P., or whatever. And I'm one of those who thinks that it's actually a pretty small advantage. A pretty small advantage, but persistent generation after generation, and no fail, it's there. If you have the lactose mechanism for absorbing calcium and making strong bones, less likely to have rickets, less likely to have Harrison Sulcus, less likely to have broken bones in young adulthood and all those things. You'll have that rigid calcification of bone, which you can see starting right out in infancy with the lactose affect. Thank you so much. Of course, thank you. Just like we learned in lesson three, that there are different alleles for the ABO gene, there are also different alleles for the lactase gene, but the difference is that the ABO alleles, we're in the coding region. You can see here allele 1 and allele 2. There the star marks a change here in the coding region. But in the lactase gene example, the difference between allele 1 and allele 2 doesn't have anything to do with coding region. It has everything to do with the non-coding region. Now remember, you still get two copies of every gene, including the lactase gene. That counts the coding and the non-coding regions. Which combination of alleles would result in lactose intolerance? There are three options. Two cytosines, a cytosine and a thiamine, or two thiamines. Remember the order of the alleles doesn't matter, whether it's CT or TC, so we still just have three options total. Go ahead and select any and all options that you think apply. So the only allele combination in this list that should show signs of lactose intolerance would be the cytosine cytosine combination, or the CC. And the reason is because. Remember that the [INAUDIBLE] causes non lactase persistence, right? We need lactase to digest lactose. Without it, we'll be lactose intolerant. So if we have 2 cytosines, then, obviously. We're probably going to show symptoms of lactose intolerance. But if we have one copy of the T allele, right if we have a cytosine and some thiamine. One copy by itself is enough to produce some lactase into adulthood. This presumably would be enough to mitigate any effects of lactose intolerance, right cause now we're going to have some lactase around we can digest our lactose. If it's digested, then we're not going to show those symptoms of lactose intolerance. So even one copy is enough to not be lactose intolerance. And of course, having two copies of the T allele would also most likely make you not show signs of lactose intolerance, because then you'd have plenty of lactase. So up to this point, we've actually talked quite a bit about the non-coding regions of our genome. Promoters, enhancers, and silencers are just a portion of the non-coding piece of the pie. There's a lot of other ways that gene expression can be regulated. Exactly. There's some really cool ways, like how DNA wraps around histone proteins. Remember histones are actually those proteins that organize DNA into chromosomes. You can modify those histones that, in a way that actually promotes or inhibits transcription of a gene. There are also these small RNAs called micro RNAs that can bind to an MRNA transcript and target it for destruction. Now if you're interested in learning more about this topic we strongly encourage you to seek out a higher level genetics class or do some reading on your own. But for us, I just want you to focus on the non-coding regions called promoters, enhancers, and silencers. And regulatory proteins, such as transcription factors. We've almost come to the end of another lesson, and I want to give you a chance to assess your own knowledge of non-coding regions of our genome. Now, based on what you've learned, see if you can figure out this following scenario. A baby is born that shows severe signs of lactose intolerance when fed breast milk. Now to determine the cause, the hospital is interested in the sequence of the lactase coding region, the promoter region and the enhancer region, specifically at the minus 13,910 base pairs or letters in front of transcription start site. They're able to determine that there are no mutations in the coding region of the gene. So what I want you to figure out, is select whether you think a gene mutation is more likely in the promoter or the enhancer region. Then I want you to justify your answer here in this text box. Tell me why, and do this in your own words. Make it a little short answer essay. Include any word you need to answer the question. Use words like transcription, allele, consensus, transcription factor, whatever you think you need to answer the question of why, when you justify your answer. And keep this answer in a safe place, because we're going to use it in the next video screen to evaluate ourselves. Okay, because the reaction in the infant is so severe, there's probably no lactase produced at all, due to some kind of significant deletion maybe of the TATA box and the promoter region. If it was just the enhancer, we might expect some diminished lactase activity, but we wouldn't expect it to be missing completely. Severe lactose intolerance suggested that we have almost no lactase available, so this probably means a problem in the promoter, not the enhancer. There were lot of different ways that you could have responded to this question, to the why part of the question and what I hope you did is spent some time planning out your answer and writing it out. Now there's an okay to a best level of answering this question, in my opinion and an okay response, which isn't very good, and I hope you put more than this is, the promoter is mutated. Meaning that you were able to select correctly that it's the promoter and just indicate that you think that's where the mutation is but that's not much of an explanation. The next best answer ranked here as good would be saying that the promoter likely has a mutation in the consensus sequence, preventing transcription and causing the symptoms. So understanding that the actual mutation itself is happening in a sequence, it's a consensus, and it blocks transcription all together. Still it leaves a little bit to be desired. A better answer would be to say that the TATA-box, right, which we know is consensus sequence is likely mutated which prevents transcription factors from binding right. We know that there are transcription factors that bind and make transcription happen. This results in no lactase, which explains the severe phenotype. A change in the enhancer, would have less of an effect. So you not only understand, right, that the TATA-Box is crucial to the effectiveness of the promoter, but you realize that the enhancer isn't really doing that much as far as absolute control, right? It can boost levels, right, but it's not going to essentially take all the transcription away, as we see in the case of the infant. And the best possible answer here is to be pretty comprehensive and to say that the consensus TATA- box of the promoter is likely deleted or significantly altered as a result critical transcription factors can't bind and transcription doesn't occur, so we get no lactase protein. And this would explain the severe phenotype better than a change or deletion in the enhancer region, whose alleles seem only to effect lactase presistence into adulthood. What I'd really like for you to do is, look at your answer from the previous video screen and I want you to compare it to these answers here and then select the check box here that you think best evaluates how you answered the question. if you think you were only okay check the okay box, if you think you were best check the best box. And there are boxes in-between these answers that you can check as well if you think your answer is somewhere in the middle. Go ahead and do that comparison now and then select which box you think fairly assesses your answer to this question. Congratulations. You've almost made it to the very end of lesson four, and you know that that means you get a chance to fill out the concept map with the blanks in it, with words from the word bank here. Hopefully if you've been paying attention throughout the lesson, this should be pretty straightforward. If you have your own copy that's been filled in with the right answers already, just from your great note taking. If not, still take a stab at this, Use one word from the word bank, or one word or phrase to fill in each box here as it's empty. And then when you're done just click submit. Alright. Let's take out the words that accurately fill on this concept map. Here in lesson four we learned that the human genome can be divided between the non-coding DNA and the protein coding DNA. The non-coding DNA represents about 98% of our genome whereas protein coding DNA represents about 2%. No matter how you divide it you've got two copies of the human genome in every cell. Now non coding DNA includes three main types of non coding sequence that we discussed. One type was a promoter. Another type was an enhancer. Now enhancers are bound by activators. So that's how we knew enhancers went here instead of here. You know that if promoters and enhancers are two of the types, then the third type are silencers. Silencers are bound by repressors and activators and repressors are types of transcription factors. Transcription factors specifically bind around the TATA sequence. Which is essential to drive initiation of transcription via the promoter. So everything in this lesson really centers around the promoter sequence. Because the promoter is the main effective non-coding DNA region that regulates transcription of a protein coding gene. Now, transcription factors generally are proteins that bind any regulatory region of DNA. Activators and repressors are very specific types that bind certain regions like enhancers that promote transcription initiation via promoters and repressors that bind silencers which silence or inhibit Transcription from a promoter region. But no matter what promoters sit in front of protein coding genes, which are essentially the divisions of protein coding DNA here. Now our transcription factors that bind regulatory regions of DNA thus regulate the expression of protein coding DNA. Or genes. We also learn very specifically that, just like in lesson three, that different sequences of protein coding DNA can be called alleles. The same is true for non coding DNA. We can have different sequences called alleles, and these all originate from mutations which we'll learn about more in lesson six. Overall, In the human genome both protein-coding DNA, even though it represents only about 2% or less, or non-coding DNA, which represents the vast majority of our genome, they work together to specify thousands of different cell types. And together these are organized by the process of development that makes us Who we are, all of our complexity, all of our traits. We've reached the end to another lesson and we learned a lot of important concepts that we're going to summarize into five main points. Point one our genome's are largely made up of non-coding sequences which play a major role in influencing the transcription of coding regions. Point two. All coding regions have a non-coding sequence called a promoter that's typically located in front of the transcription initiation site and is essential for transcription to occur. Point three: The consensus TATA sequence, or TATA-box, is common to promoters of many genes and is essential for their transcription to occur. Point 4. Activators and repressors are transcription factors, or proteins that combine enhancers and silencers that regulate gene expression, typically through combinatorial regulation. And point 5. All humans have two copies of non-coding alleles, just as they have two copies of coding alleles. In this lesson, we learn that when and where a gene is expressed matters a lot. Lactase expression is present in nearly all babies and slows over time. However, if you're one of the people who has the allele that keeps lactase expression high. Now all the differences in the different cell types of your body have to do with these kinds of differences in the activity of gene products. Every cell in your body has the exact same instructions. They just read different parts at different times, depending on the coordination between the coding and non-coding regions. Now, what we've learned in this lesson and the three lessons previous are really important for us to build on in the following lessons. So if you've had trouble with this material or material before this, I want you to go back watch some of those videos again, take some of the problem sets, go to the forums and talk to some of the other students. Because it's really important that you have a firm understanding of this material before moving forward. Now, in the meantime, next time you reach for that glass of milk and cookies Think twice about how that amazing human evolution has allowed you to enjoy this yummy drink. Laura, you're never going to guess what I found. What is it? Well I've, I've found my parents' genomes. Really, what does it say? Well I've been comparing them here for a little while, but it seems pretty obvious that I'm an equal mix of my parents. They each gave me half of their genome, so I could have a whole genome myself. Well but yeah, that's how it works. Like, all the parents pass down half the genome to all the siblings. Well, this is true. But it's not the same half that they give to everybody. [INAUDIBLE] But how does that work? Well think about it. It's the reason that me and my sister don' t look the same. We each got 50% of our DNA from our parents, but the half she got from Mom, and the half I got from Mom aren't the same halves. This happens because of two really important processes called recombination and independent assortment in myosis. Wait, what in what? Lauren, I think it's about time we zoomed out and looked at the bigger picture of how genomes and chromosomes are passed down from parent to offspring. Up to this point, we've learned about what traits are and how our DNA codes for them, both coding and noncoding, how it can create and provide the foundation for these traits. But we still don't even know how this material gets passed down. Sex. I'm sorry, what? Sex. That's, I know that's how you pass down genetic information. this is true. Sex is the vehicle by which the hereditary material is passed down from generation to generation. But. The question is do any of you know what's going on at the genetic level? In this lesson, we're going to learn how our genes and chromosomes get passed down in interesting patterns from generation to generation, making us a unique mix of our parent's DNA. Ok, my favorite genetics fanatics. Here is your concept map for lesson five. As usual, you can find it on this page under the instructor's notes. Download it, print it out, take notes on it, fill in the blanks as we go along, and then you'll have a chance at the end of the lesson to fill in the blanks as a little assessment exercise. Of course, if you do feel that you learn better with the complete concept map, you can go to the end of the lesson and find it there. But please, try to use this incomplete map here. You'll get to see a complete version at the end of the lesson. Lauren, has anyone ever told you, you have a trait in common with one of your parents? Some people say I have my mom's eyes or my dad's nose, but I've a sense of humor just like my dad. But, I'm also, kind of, my mom too. Yeah, I actually have my mom's smile and my dad's eyes. And, I actually think I'm probably a pretty even mix of their personalities. Oh yeah, I can see it. Well we all share similarities with our blood relatives, but the extent to which we may feel have that similarity depends on which relative we're talking about. So tell us, who in your family do you think you resemble the most? Take a guess if you don't know exactly who. In general, people find they're most similar to their immediate family because they're most related to them. More distant family members still show similarities, but fewer similarities than the closely related family. For example, you might compare yourself to one of your parents, say your mother, and you might be looking at traits that you share in common. And then we can look at your mother's parents, one her parents. Let's say her father, your grand daddy, and we could essentially compare the same traits among all of us. And we could keep going back in time looking at the parents of the grandparents and the parents of the great grandparents, and the parents of the great-great grandparents. And we could just keep gong back in this very linear fashion. In general, you're probably going to find that you're most similar to your parent and then your grandparent, and then your great grandparent as a general rule. But looking at families in this very linear fashion isn't really all that accurate, and it's really difficult to make comparisons to all the other family members that you're related to. Your family actually resembles much more of a shrub-like structure, with branches coming off to the sides, up and to the right, all around, going back in time in many different directions. We can represent half siblings, aunts, uncles, granddads, uncles, cousins and so on. Let's actually try to look at this starting with your most immediate biological family members. Your parents, father and mother, and your siblings, sister or brother. Now you share 100% similarity with yourself. Congratulations, you are you. And with all of these other immediate family members: father, mother, sister, brother, your sharing about 50% similarity. This tier of relatedness is the closest tier of relatedness to you with regards to your family members, those people with whom you're genetically related. Now let's add the first tier of complexity here. Your mother and father may have siblings, these would be considered your aunts and uncles. Your aunts and uncles, and your parents all share parents themselves, your grandparents. This tier of relatedness is roughly 25% to you, this tier also includes relatives like half siblings. A half sibling is someone who shares one biological parent with you. Now you notice that when we added one tier of complexity, we got a lot bigger pretty fast. Right. We added a bunch of levels both in the same generation as you. The generation above you and another generation beyond that. Now we can add another tier. And keep building your family tree or your family shrub in this case. We've added many more great grandparents. Some grand aunts and grand uncles, some first cousins here. And we can keep building, and keep building this tree or shrub, or as I like to think of it a family rainbow. And we can start at the center here with perfect genetic relatedness and keep moving out to the next rung, to the next part of the rainbow, and we get less and less related. And as we build, we just get bigger and bigger. Our family stretches on and on in many directions. We're including great great grandparents, second cousins, first cousins once removed. This visual really brings to light the shrubbiness of our families, and our family trees. Now, with a visual like this, which of the following inferences is the least well described? Would it be family relatedness, genetic relatedness, or trait relatedness? Go ahead and pick the answer you think best applies. Now our family rainbow, or family tree down here, does a pretty good job at showing us, well, family relatedness, right? We can see all of our connections. And we also get some idea of our genetic relatedness, because we know as we step out each tier, how much we're related to that individual. But what we're missing, is trait relatedness. We've talked a great deal up to this point that having different alleles of different genes may not result in the same traits that other family members in your family have. And this diagram doesn't really tell us for any given trait, do you have the same trait your mother has? Or your great-grandfather? Or your grand-aunt on your father's side? We're going to need a better way of organizing information to include family, egnetic and trait relatedness. Although you share more traits with those relatives with whom you're most genetically similar, let's say your parents, and your brothers and sisters, this doesn't mean that your closest relatives like your parents or siblings share every trait that you have. And this diagram that we've constructed up to this point doesn't do a very good job at revealing which family members share which traits. Right? We're not doing a good job of showing the relatedness of particular traits. Now, to combine this sort of family tree with the information about traits that we're interested in understanding, we're going to use a very special kind of diagram called a pedigree. Now, pedigrees are just an organized way of looking at family relations and traits. Females are symbolized with just a simple circle symbol and males are symbolized with just a square. A single line drawn in between a male and female does not indicate marriage, I repeat, does not indicate marriage. It simply indicates that there were sexual relations and line coming downwards and splitting into any number of circles and squares simply indicates the number of children and whether or not they were sons squares or daughters, circles. And each new generation in the pedigree gets it's own row, so here we have the children, the parents, the grandparents, the great-grandparents. Now none of this is probably really unique to you from our family tree we were looking at before, because we have the relatedness of the family, the genetic relatedness, right? We can see the tiers, the organization, the male-female aspect of it but what we're missing are trait relationships. And this is where pedigrees become immensely useful, because not only are these shapes indicative of something about this individual, the fact that they're male or female, but we can also shade them in to indicate whether or not the individual has a particular trait or not. So, let's use an example the trait of lactose intolerance. Something we learned about in the last lesson, lesson four. Now, the way this works, is we want to represent the trait of lactose intolerance using our shading mechanism. If an individual is in fact lactose intolerant, we want to shade that individual shape, the circle or the square and if they're not lactose intolerant, if they're lactose tolerant, right, they can actually digest milk products, then we're not going to shade the circle at all. We're going to leave it empty. It really is that simple. So let's try to build a pedigree for a particular individual concerning the trait of lactose intolerance. Meet Kate. Kate and her family have a European and Jewish ancestry. Kate is, in fact, lactose intolerant but her brother is not. Neither of Kate's parents are lactose intolerant either but, her maternal grandfather and paternal aunt are intolerant. Remember, maternal grandfather means the grandfather on her mother's side and paternal aunt means the aunt on her father's side. Using all of this information I want you to tell me, which of the following pedigrees represents Kate's family, and the trait of lactose intolerance. Now only one of these five pedigrees can be right. And the only way you'll be able to figure it out is if you understand what the symbols mean in the pedigree and what the shading means. Hopefully, this isn't too hard and go ahead and give it your best shot. So using all of the information we had about Kate's family, we should know that fourth answer represents the pedigree of lactose intolerance for Kate's family. Remember, Kate is lactose intolerant, but not her brother. So when we look at these five options down here, we should be looking for a pedigree that has a female symbol or circle that's shaded in. Meaning that they are affected by lactose intolerance. This pedigree here has an unaffected female and an affected brother. So that's not what we want. All of the other four pedigrees have an affected female with an unaffected brother. So now we go up a generation and look at the parents. We see that, based on information, neither of Kate's parents are lactose intolerant. Well if neither of her parents are lactose intolerant, they shouldn't be shaded at all. This one has a shaded parent, so that can't be right. And this one has a shaded parent, so an affected parent, so that can't be right. Only these two pedigrees show parents that are unaffected, unshaded. And the last piece of information is that the maternal grandfather and paternal aunt are intolerant like Kate. So we need to find where the mother's grandfather is affected which is right here. Over here it's the paternal grandfather, right? There's the grandfather but it's on the father's side based on the square male symbol. Although the paternal aunt is preserved in both of these pedigrees or you see the sister of the father here, the unaffected father, the sister is affected. But because this is the paternal grandfather and not the maternal grandfather, we know that's not right and that leaves us with this one pedigree here. The amazing thing about pedigrees is that a pedigree for any given trait, like lactose intolerance, will allow us to compare family relatedness with the prevalence of that trait. So here, we see Kate, and she's affected, because we see that here circle is filled in. We see her parents are unaffected, because they're not shaded. Her brother is not affected because he's not shaded. But, her maternal grandfather is affected because His square is shaded and her paternal aunt, her dad's sister is also shaded, also affected. The shading of these shapes in the pedigree allows us to identify the phenotype, or the observable condition or trait of an individual. So in this pedigree, Kate's phenotype is lactose intolerance. Whereas, her brother's phenotype is lactose tolerance. So what other information do you think you could get from this pedigree here, of Kate's family concerning the trait of lactose intolerance? Take a look at each of these particular options and then look at the pedigree, and determine whether or not you think it's true. Check any and all boxes that you think apply. Remember, if you're affected, you're shaded in. Meaning that you have lactose intolerance. And, if you're not shaded in, you're unaffected, meaning you are lactose tolerant. So using just the information you had in the pedigree here, you should have been able to figure out that unaffected parents have affected children, and that the trait seems to skip generations. Now let's take a look at each of these over here. We see that unaffected parents, look at Kate's parents: she has an unaffected mom and an unaffected dad, but she's affected. And then look at her dad's sister, who was affected, right, her paternal aunt. Both of her parents were unaffected. This appears to be true in our pedigree here. The second option is that affected parents have affected children. In no circumstance do we see, although we only have one to look at, Kate's maternal grandfather, where he's affected but his daughter is not affected. This would be Kate's mom. So let's go to the third and fourth options we could have chosen here. And we look at the trait itself, the shaded box, the shaded square here. And we see that it did not get passed down to the daughter, and then did get passed down to the granddaughter. This fully skipped a generation. So this is obvious here that the trait does skip generations. This particular pattern of inheritance Could seem a little confusing at first. Especially if yo're new to this. But, understanding how a genome is transmitted from parents to chilrens, is going to help us answer many, many more questions about other traits in coming lessons. Looking at Kate's pedigree here, we can see that the trait of lactose intolerance doesn't appear in every generation. In fact, it looks like it skips generations. I've heard of genes skipping generations before, like male pattern baldness, or cystic fibrosis. Exactly. There are lots of examples of traits that do this, but it's important to know there are also other traits that do appear in every generation, where many of the family members show the same phenotype. How do they do that, is there something different genetically? Well, we'll get to that. But the first thing we need to do is better describe these inheritance patterns. And to do that, we're going to pull on knowledge in all the lessons we've had up to this point. Particularly, the idea of an allele. So wait, let's go over what an allele is again. An allele is just a version of a gene that can cause a version of a trait. For example, one allele may promote blue eyes and another allele may promote brown eyes. That's right. And I have two, one from mom, one from dad. Exactly. It's important for us to keep that in mind as we go through this lesson, as it's going to be a very key concept. We have two copies of every gene. And we can have different alleles of a gene, but different alleles don't always cause the same kind of trait. In the last lesson, lesson 4. We learned that lactose intolerance is caused by the absence of an enzyme called lactase. And this trait is otherwise known as lactase non persistence. So, if you show signs of lactose intolerance, it's because you don't have enough lactase around to digest the lactose. Because you're lactase non persistent. You don't express lactase anymore. But if you can digest lactose product, you're lactose tolerant because you still have lactase around. You had lactase persistence. You still express the lactase enzyme. Now there were 2 particular alleles that we discussed at the link, and they are both located about 13,000 base pair upstream of the transcription initiation side at the lactase coding region. A Cytosine or C, up here in the enhancer region, correlates with lactase non persistence or symptoms of lactose intolerance like Kate has, the other allele a Thymine or T in enhancer region, correlates with lactase persistence, meaning that we will have lactase around and we can digest lactose so, we'll be lactose tolerant. So based on this information, how many different allelic combinations are even possible? And remember as a hint, every human has two alleles for the lactase gene. Go ahead and put the answer you think in this text box here. Remembering that every human has two alleles of the lactase gene. There are only three allelette combinations we can have. We can either have two C alleles, two T alleles, or a C and a T allele. Remember that it doesn't matter the order of the allele here, it's just whether we have the allele or not. Now, when we're discussing two possible alleles. We realized in the last exercise that we can get three possible allele combinations. In this case two sydacines, a sydacine and a thymine, or two thymine. We might just say CC, CT, or TT. Now in genetics there's a more traditional way of writing this kind of information. Because each allele is technically on a different chromosome. We actually separate the two alleles with a slash. Because sometimes when we're discussing genetic information, among geneticists. There's always the need to distinguish, okay are we talking about information on the same chromosome, or on different chromosomes? So as a common way of distinguishing this, the practice arose to put a slash here. And so that's how we are going to actually refer to two different alleles from here on in, in our class, C/C although I'll probably just CC. Okay now there are two very important patterns that have just emerged that are really important for us to define. Because we are going to keep coming back to them throughout the whole of the course. Although we have three possible combinations of the alleles, there are two specific types of combinations. We have the homozygous combination. Meaning that we have the same alleles in the pair. So in this case we have two cytosines or two thymines. These would be the homozygous conditions. And we have the heterozygous combination, meaning different alleles in the combination. So in this case, we have one heterozygous option, the cytosine-thymine pair. So having two alleles allows three allelic combinations. Where two of them are homozygous and one of them is a heterozygous combination. But let's imagine for a second just completely hypothetically that there was a third allele at this same genetic position. Where there's now a guanine or a G instead of a cytosine or a thymine. Of all the possible allele combinations that we could get out of these three alleles I want you to tell me which allelic combinations would be considered heterozygous? Go ahead and check any and all boxes that you think apply. Okay, I hope this question was fairly straightforward and easy for you. If we're going to look at the heterozygous allelic combinations, we're looking for any combinations where the letters aren't the same. So that would be a thiamine-guanine match, a guanine-cytosine match, and a cytosine-thiamine match. The others don't fit, because they would be homozygous, because both Letters in the pair are the same. So I understand how I can have different phenotypes, but I can't really keep straight which alleles cause which phenotypes. That's a really good point, and there's actually a really good solution for it, too. We can actually symbolize which allele causes which phenotype. For example, we can symbolize lactase persistence with the plus sign or the positive sign here, and lactase non-persistence with the minus sign or the negative sign. This means that the T allele would be associated with the plus symbol, and the C allele would be associated with the minus symbol. So, if we rewrite all of our allelic combinations that are possible we'll remember that there are three possibilities. T/T, T/C or C/C. And now that means we can have plus, plus. Plus minus and minus, minus. This gives us a far more functional looking symbol that tells us maybe a little bit about the phenotype. Rather than just the letter itself, which can be hard to remember which phenotype it's associated with. Okay, so that's a lot easier to follow now. Well, notice that in the case of lactose intolerance, all you need is one allele of lactase persistence, so that you can actually digest lactose in the first place. Okay, but how is that possible? Well, Remember, because all you need is some lactase protein around the digest lactose at all. Having one allele, the T allele, will give you enough lactase protein at all to be able to digest lactose. Let's think about it like we did in our recipe analogy from lessons 3 and 4. Okay, okay. I'm with you. Alright. What we're going to do this time, is, instead of using lots of different ingredients, we're going to use an ingredient, cheese. Now, I see. So, we have one gene, but two types of alleles. We have the cheddar allele and the mozzarella allele. Exactly, and just like in a gene, we have two copies of the alleles for that gene. So, Lauren, what are the possible allelic combinations here? Well, we can have two cheddars. Right. Which would be our two T alleles. Or we can have. Two mozzarellas. Right, which would represent our two C alleles. Or, we can have one mozzarella and one cheddar. Right, this would be the heterozygous condition where we have both a T allele and a C allele. So, really the important question now, is in this heterozygous condition, which flavor are we going to taste? Well, I think you taste the cheddar flavor, because that's going to overpower the mozzarella flavor, because it's just a stronger flavor. Exactly. This allele is going to be dominant, and so this flavor's actually going to overpower the flavor of the mozzarella, which means. That you're going to need two mozzarellas to be able to taste the flavor of the mozzarella, right? Exactly. Now think about all the genotypes and phenotypes surrounding the trait of lactase persistence. I want you to match each genotype to the expected phenotype here. So for each genotype that you see, select whether or not you think it'll be lactose tolerant or lactose intolerant. Just like out cheeses, if we have just one copy of the T allele, or in this case the plus sign allele, it's like our cheddar. And it's going to be strong enough to show the phenotype. So obviously the homozygous condition will show the lactose tolerance, but so will the heterozygous condition. Only one allele is all you need to actually be able to digest some lactose. For the mozzarella flavor Or the C allele in this case, the minus minus, needs to be in homozygous condition before you see the trait of lactose intolerance show up. Very briefly note the fact that one homozygous and one heterozygous scenario gives you the same phenotype. Whereas the other homozygous genotype, or combination, gives you the other phenotype. In the case of lactase persistence, one allele has an effect. The t allele. Even when there's only one copy. So if you're homozygous thymine or heterozygous thymine cytosine, as long as you have one of these thymine alleles or the, the plus alleles. We're going to be lactase persistent. And therefore, we're going to be lactose tolerant. Only the homozygous combination of cytosines, the minus minus combination, are we going to end up with lactase non-persistence and a phenotype of lactose intolerance. So out of the three possible allelic combinations. Two of them result in lactose tolerance and one of them results in lactose intolerance. Thus, lactose intolerance is considered a recessive trait. And by recessive we just mean it's masked by the presence of another allele. Whereas the other trait, tolerance, lactose tolerance or the T allele is considered dominant because we only need one copy to see an effect. These two words are used so often in genetics. And the way we use them is only in a relative fashion comparing one allele to another. The cytosine allele is recessive compared to the dominant thymine allele or T is dominant to C here. An allele can not be dominant or recessive in isolation. We can only define it in this fashion when we're comparing it to another allele. With this information we're actually ready to look at how lactose intolerance can be inherited. Let's look back at Kate's pedigree of lactose intolerance and focus specifically on Kate and her brother. Using information about dominance and recessiveness. You should be able to determine what the possible allelic combinations or genotypes could be for Kate and her brother. Here in each column, I want you to select any and all boxes that you think could possibly apply. Remember, look at the pedigree, take in all the information you can, synthesize it with what you know about traits. And alleles that are dominant versus recessive and remember that a shaded individual means they're affected by lactose intolerance and if they're not shaded, they're not affected by lactose intolerance. They're lactose tolerant. So using information from the pedigree here, we should have been able to discern that Kate could have only possibly been one genotype. The minus minus. You'll remember the [UNKNOWN] homozygous combination, which is the recessive trait. And that her brother could be either heterozygous or homozygous. For the dominant thymine, or positive, allele. Now how do we come up with this? Well, looking at our pedigree here, we know that Kate is affected by the trait of lactose intolerance. We know that the trait of lactose intolerance is recessive. Meaning that there's only one allelic combination the homozygous recessive combination that she could be, she must be minus minus. Her brother on the other hand we know is unaffected. Well if he's unaffected that means he can't be minus minus, there are two other possible options. He could be homozygous plus plus or heterozygous plus minus based on the information for the pedigree alone. We can't determine which is which. So now it's time we zoom out just a bit more on Kate's family pedigree of lactose intolerance. And hopefully you realize now we're looking at a pedigree for a recessive trait. This is what a recessive pedigree looks like. And let's see if we can write down a couple of things that we definitely know from the pedigree. Remember we might switch back and forth between using these two different types of symbols. The thymine cytosine DNA letter alleles versus the plus minus symbols indicating lactase persistence on the top and lactase nonpersistence on the bottom. Now in our pedigree, we know that everybody who is affected is shaded in. And they must be recessive. Homozygous recessive. Every individual that's shaded in this pedigree must be minus minus or c c. Based on what we've learned so far, we know that this must be true. Now let's take a look at Kate's parents here. Kate is effective. We know she's minus, minus. Each parent had to give her one of their own alleles. This means one of her minuses had to come from mom and one of her minuses had to come from dad. But the question is what's the other allele? And we already know the answer, mom and dad are unaffected. If mom and dad are unaffected, that means their other allele has to be a plus, because if it was a minus then both mom and dad would also be affected and you'd see them shaded in as well. But they're not, we know they're not affected. This information about trait has been able to inform us about what their possible genotype is. This is what makes categories so amazing. We know immediately what Kate's genotype must be. We know what her parents' genotypes must be. But now, let's look at her brother. We know her brother's not effected, so he could be either plus plus or plus minus and actually the problem here is all we know is that he has one plus. He could be plus, plus right? He could have gotten a plus from each parent or he could have gotten a plus from one parent and a minus from another parent. We don't know. So that's actually still an unknown variable for us right now. It's something we can't determine from the pedigree. This is one of our limits. Now there's another really amazing pattern that this pedigree reveals to us. We learned earlier, that the trait itself of lactose intolerance, skips generations. Kate's maternal grandfather is affected by lactose intolerance. Her mother is not, but then Kate is. The trait skipped a generation. But now look at the genotypes. We know her grandfather must be minus minus, her mother must be minus plus, and she is also minus minus. That minus allele traveled from here grandfather to her mother to her. So although her mother doesn't show the trait, one of the alleles that contribuets to the trait that Kate has Was passed from her grandfather to her mother to her. So for a recessive trait like lactose intolerance, using the information from the pedigree that we've been discussing, which of the following items are true. Now this can be a very tricky problem. I do not want you to be intimidated. But I do want you to take your time and think about it. These are check-boxes, which means there are lots of possible combinations here. I want you to see if you can figure out which of these items are true and check any and all boxes that you think apply. Now if you get frustrated, don't worry. Go to the discussion forums. See if you can get some other hints about how to figure this out. And if you really think it'll be helpful go ahead and skip ahead to the solution video but please, please try and think about this one and answer it on your own first. Okay, this was a tough one. But the answers are the third, the fourth, and the last answers. Let's take a look at why that is. Just take the first statement by itself. Affected individuals may carry a dominant allele. If you're affected, it means you're lactose intolerant, so we know you must be homozygous recessive or minus minus. Minus minus, is the recessive condition, right. This is not having a dominant allele, if you had a dominant allele, you would be unaffected, so that can't be true. The second statement says, affected individuals must carry a dominant allele. Well, no that can't be true either right, I mean, because if they can't even have one just as a conditional may, we know they can't have to have one because that would definitely make them unaffected, right. They'd be lactose tolerant. Now the third statement says affected individuals must carry a recessive allele. The recessive allele in this case is the minus and we know that affected individuals are minus minus and this is the only way we get an affected individual. That it is true, they must carry at least one recessive allele because they have to have two recessive alleles in fact. So that's true. The fourth saying is, unaffected individuals must carry a dominant allele. So, look at Kate's brother. Remember before, we didn't know what one of those alleles were, but we knew for sure that one must be a dominant plus allele, because he's unaffected. This is definitely true. The fifth statement says unaffected individuals must carry a recessive allele. Let's go back to Kate's brother again. We don't know exactly which allele he has, but we know that he could have either another plus allele or minus allele. But, Kate's brother could in fact be plus plus. An unaffected individual being plus plus. Those are two dominant alleles. So unaffected individual don't have to carry a recessive allele. And that leads us to our last statement. Unaffected individuals may carry a recessive allele. Again we'll come back to Kate's brother and say that he could be plus plus or plus minus. If he's plus minus, then he sure does have a recessive allele. We could also look at Kate and her brother's parents and we see that they're both unaffected and they do carry a recessive allele themselves. So this last statement is in fact true. Now the cool thing about inheritance patterns of dominant recessive traits is that it all depends on your perspective. I mean we could focus on Lactose intolerance, which would make a recessive pedigree. Or we could the focus on the flip side, the dominant corollary, lactase persistence and lactose tolerance. Right? The ability to digest lactose found in many dairy products like milk and cheese. So let's flip the pedigree and see what it looks like. So if this is what a recessive pedigree looks like, when we focus on lactose intolerance, then let's flip this pedigree and see what it looks like from the dominant perspective. Now you're looking at a pedigree of lactose tolerance from the dominant perspective. Notice that the shaded symbols of the pedigree have changed quite a bit. They now show up in every generation of our pedigree, and we see a much higher frequency. In fact, there are a couple of very distinct features about a dominant pedigree, compared to a recessive pedigree. So, which of the following must be true about a pedigree representing a dominant trait? Here are four options, and remember that this time, affected means lactose tolerant not intolerant. So go ahead and pick any and all that you think apply. So from a dominant pedigree's perspective, we find that affected parents have affected children, and the trait does not skip generations. If we look at the pedigree over here, we know that unaffected parents don't have affected children. Notice that there's no scenario over here, where a child has unaffected parents, instead. Every child that's affected has affected parents. And as far as skipping generations go. I mean, you can see on both sides of the pedigree, of the family tree here, that we have affected great grandparents, affected grandparents, affected parents, and then affected children. So the trait does not skip generations. Unlike recessive trait pedigrees, dominant traits appear more frequently within a pedigree, and often do not skip generations. I'm showing you here a really great example of a dominant trait called achondroplasia. Achondroplasia is a major cause of dwarfism in humans. Now in this particular pedigree, again you'll notice right away that it effects every generation. Right? We see every generation from grandparents to parents to children, we see affected individuals. Now to this point in the course, we haven't talked about any specific genetic alleles that cause achondroplasia, but no worry. We can go back to using our symbols like we were using for lactose intolerance, the plus and the minus. In this case, the plus or the dominant allele is actually for achondroplasia which causes dwarfism, and the minus allele is what we're going to call quote, unquote normal. In this case what we mean by normal is just normal height. So take a look at this particular grandfather in this pedigree of the dominant trait of anchandroplasia, and I want you to tell me what are the possible genotypes of this indicated grandfather? This question is not as simple as it seems, so take a nice hard look at the pedigree here and then give it your best shot. Check any and all boxes that you think apply. The only genotype that this grandfather could be, is actually the heterozygous genotype, plus minus. Now what's the reasoning behind this? Well we know, right off the bat, that because it's a dominant trait, and he's affected, that he can't be homozygous recessive, the minus minus. Because this scenario is the normal height or the unaffected individual. We know he's affected, so he can't be that, but now the question is we know he has at least one achondroplasia allele, one of the plus alleles, but how do we know if he has one or two, if he's homozygous or heterozygous? And for that answer we're going to look at his children. specific in the all the factors is shown yes to reachout the two factors one another factorsif he is in fact come this side dominate for the cause we would expect all the children is infact one of these Dominant alleles. But the fact that his son is unaffected means that his son did not get a dominant allele. We know that the mother, obviously didn't give him a dominant allele. And the father couldn't have given him a dominant allele because he's unaffected. This must mean that he has two unaffected alleles. And one of them came from the father, which means the father must be heterozygous. My name is Ginny Foos. I am honored to be here and it actually brings back, some really great memories. When I was ten hmm, I was on a television show outside of WGBH in Boston which is were I grew up. Okay. And I was one of five finalists, that had disabilities and we filmed for two years and it was a real coming of age experience for me because we were asked to sit on very hot sets. talking about, how do you feel about being different? How do you feel about being teased? And not only was I saving in psychological costs, I didn't have to see a shrink, I was actually being paid for talking about my feelings. And I really bonded with the other four individuals, and it was really neat. How old were you when you, sort of, noticed, yourself, that you were different from other people, and maybe when your parents also noticed this? That's a really good question. my parents were given the diagnosis when I was 18 months old and they wonder to this day whether or not it was a delayed diagnosis that no one had the heart to break it to them. now this was pre-DNA testing. Mm-hmm. This was all based on x-rays and femur length. Femur is really what they go for in measuring the femur length. and there we were sitting at Boston, one of the top medical communities in the country and the gentleman that gave my parents the diagnosis was [UNKNOWN], who was sort the Dr. Spock, not the Sci-Fi Dr. Spock but sort of the, the paediatric voice of America in the 70s. And so I love to tell people that I was diagnosed by that man myself, so they knew when I was 18 months old. I think many little people like myself do not come to their own realization until they're in school. Mm-hm. Because that's when the teasing really starts. Sure. And the accessibility if you will, especially back then. Mm-hm. You know we're talking about the 70s there wasn't any Americans with Disability Act. So that's when I was having to struggle to, to access what my fellow students were accessing. So, I think the word has finally gotten out what the correct terminology is, but just in case let me educate you on that. The, when, when Little People of America was first formed in 1957, the name was actually Midgets of America it was primarily a, a venue for enter, entertainers. and they kind of made light of their union, for lack of a better word, well then slowly, educated, serious people started joining the group and one of the first tasks I had was to get rid of the word midget. Now, what's wrong with the word midget? for me, and many others, it conjures up the image of, Vaudeville when they were called midget performers and they would go around, much like a travelling circus. And they would get on stage, and you would see a...a little person like myself, with a cigar hanging out of their mouth, and a diaper on. Mm-hmm. And making total fools of themselves. So when I hear the word midget, that's what I conjure up in my mind, as, as do many in our organization so I think the word is finally dying. Uh-huh. occasionally it will be used in hockey leagues it's still used up in Canada, signifying the younger kids, I think. And, and I, I think the little people group up there has been really working on that. so, the terminology that I'm comfortable with long winded answer is I'm comfortable with little person and I'm comfortable with dwarf because that's what I was raised with. Now that's not to say that my children, and they're okay with that, too but maybe my grandchildren will have come up with a new term. Ginny Foos has a spontaneous mutation causing a chondroplasia which we're going to talk a lot more about in lesson eight. A spontaneous mutation is just a mutation that happened for the first time in that individual. If we were to actually look at a pedigree for a chondroplasia, or dwarfism in Ginny's family. How many other affected individuals would we expect to see? Go ahead and put your answer in the text box here. Now because Ginny's mutation is spontaneous, meaning that it's the first time it's happened to her in her family, we wouldn't expect to see any more family members in her pedigree to be affected by achondroplasia, or dwarfism. Remember, pedigrees can be useful in many instances, but sometimes a new trait appears, because of a new mutation, and not from Hidden alleles somewhere way back in the families. If we only were to focus on two generations let's say for a dominant and recessive trait in a pedigree, we could really be missing information. Take this example here. I have two very small pedigrees of just an immediate family and they show the same affected inheritance pattern where one child, one daughter is affected. But one of these pedigrees is for a recessive trait that both parents have an allele for, but they're unaffected and then they pass both of those recessive alleles on to the daughter. And the other pedigree is from a very new spontaneous mutation that's causing a dominant trait but the question is, can you tell the difference? I can't. The only way to distinguish these two possibilities would be to zoom out on both pedigrees and fill out as much family information as we can. This family history is going to be able to help us figure out which one of these is a recessive trait pedigree and which one of these is a spontaneous mutation that's caused a new dominant trait. For example this pedigree on the right is most likely the pedigree of a recessive trait. Because we now see that there's a family history. Unaffected parents with affected offspring, the traits skip generations and we see it on both sides of the family. Whereas the other pedigree is mostly likely caused from our spontaneous mutation and the new dominant trait because we don't have any family history of it, whatsoever. Although again, this could still possibly be a result of limited information. And maybe we just need to zoom out even further to tell if it's actually another possibility of it being a recessive pedigree as well. The point is, is that any time we're really doing this in real life. We try to get as much information as possible and specifically when we're trying to distinguish these two scenarios, what we're looking for is a family history of the condition. Meaning that you've got maybe more than one affected sibling or parent or close relative, or even possibilities of [UNKNOWN] relationships. Effectively reproduction with close relatives. luckily, I grew up in a very educated community. You know, 30 minutes away from MIT, Harvard, you know, all of the Ivy Leagues in Boston. and I think that's, that speaks a lot to kids and their value, not value system, but their manners and so forth. Sure. So, I don't remember getting teased too much. I'm sure I did and how much of that I have sort of put under the surface and forgotten about. Uh-huh. but I, I don't, I have a tougher time even today when I'm in an inner city environment where my, the people surrounding me don't have the same etiquette and don't have the same education, the same exposure. Mm-hm. And that's really where I struggle more than where I grew up, in a suburb of Boston. well to get a bit more of that sort of educated thought and idea I want you to tell us you know, as a medical condition of, of dwarfism what is, what do you know is the cause of shorter stature and in particular, in your case, what is the what is the cause of, of this? Well, remember, there are over 200 different types of dwarfism, achondroplasia being the most common. So, if you were to meet another little person in your life, most likely they'll have achondroplasia. So I can only really speak to achondroplasia. it is a dominant gene. It is also a mutation. So, what that means is, an individual can have achondroplasia for two reasons. One would be their parents have it and it's been inherited as it was with my children. The other would be it's a genetic mutation which is a complete unexplained event which is what it was for me. I, I am the only little person in my family. My little brother is six three. and my parents, my grandfather was a genealogist. So, you can imagine he spent a lot of time looking into this. and I am the only dwarf in my family origin. But, I then went on to meet my husband who also has achondroplasia, we got married, and we have three children. I gave birth to two of them and I flew to Moscow for the third one, to adopt from an orphanage. who also has achondroplasia but clearly not from me or my husband. she, from all we know, which is really not much is a mutation as well, her parents were average height. And I suspect, in Russia it, it's a lot harder to be a little person. I have two children that I gave birth to, one in August of 1992, the other in November of 1997. The gene was discovered in 1994 or five. So, that meant that my pregnancies were very, very different. In 1992, the only diagnostic tool that they could use was ultrasound and again, they were looking at the femur in the fetus and they could not measure that accurately until I was 24 weeks pregnant. So, at that time, they told me, and I was actually being seen by the gentleman that wrote the birth, the growth charts for fetuses at UCSF and he was the one reading my film, my, my measurements from the ultrasound. Mm-hm, mm-hm. And he said, Jenny, this is a tough one. He said, that femur is in the 7th percentile. And typically if we're looking at a hetero-zygote. Mm-hm. Meaning that the embryo, fetus, has gotten the gene from one of you, that femur's going to be over the 10th percentile. Right around between the 10th and the 20th or 30th or something. Mm-hm. and you're coming in at the 7th and that makes us very concerned that perhaps you're carrying a homo-zygote. And a homo-zygote, what that means on, in, in lay terms is a double dominant and in achondroplasia they have found that to be lethal. The baby is born and lives no more than a week. Typically, more a matter of hours without life support. So, it was a really tough call. So, we went ahead and, and went with what we thought was right and Alex was born and obviously he's still with us, he's 20 years old. So, he must be a hetero-zygote although he has had a lot of medical issues. hm. jump ahead five years later and in between that, by the way, I'd flew to Moscow to adopt a second child. hm. I'm pregnant again with our now 15 year old and I have an amniocentesis at ten weeks. And within a week, I get a phone call from a genetic counselor at Bailey University in Texas telling me, you have a hetero-zygote, 100% certainty. So, you can imagine the difference in the stress involved around both pregnancies. Absolutely. I knew what my odds were when I was ten years old and babysitting and knew that I wanted to have children and I wanted to be a teacher. I, did that influence my selection of mates? Did I say to myself oh, I'd better not find a, I'd better not fall in love with another achondroplastic because we have a 25% chance of having a homo-zygote? Absolutely not. Do I ache for my boys, who will most likely by mere fact of numbers, will wind up with achondroplastic women and this will be on the table? Do I ache for them, before they're are even, you know, really dating? Mm hmm. Absolutely, I ache for them. If Ginny is heterozygous for the allele that causes achondroplasia if she has a plus and a minus allele. What's the probability that she will pass the affected allele on to her children? You have five options here. Just think about how many alleles Ginny has to offer And just try to take a guess about the probability that she'll pass on the plus alelle, the dominant allele, to one of her children. Okay, Ginny is heterozygous we would expect there to be a 50% chance that she would pass on the dominant allele to one of her children. Now there are reasons for this that were going to explore throughout the rest of the lesson. You can just consider that Ginny has 2 alleles and there's roughly a fifty fifty chance that she's going to Pass either allele onto her offspring. So, there would be about a 50% chance she would pass on the dominant allele or 50% chance she would pass on the recessive allele. Jenny's story is truly amazing, and we're going to hear from her later in the lesson. She talked a lot about passing on the trait of dwarfism or achondroplasia to her children, and for us to understand exactly what that entails, we need to think about what's actually getting passed down to the next generation. So how's the whole genome involved in this process? Well, let's take a moment and step back from our pedigree. So, focus on the physical material. That's actually passed down from generation to generation. So, you're talking about DNA. Right. DNA. The genetic material that a parent passes on, to their offspring. Tell me. What cell type is most responsible for passing DNA on to, the next generation? So we know that sex is necessary for the next generation. So it must be the sex cells that pass down the information. That's right. The sex cells or the sperm and egg are the only cells that carry the DNA to the next generation. I think it's time we got explicit about the physical processes that lead to genetic variability and the physical passing on of our genes. Now if you want to have your own biological children, there's a pretty important event that must precede the presence of children. instead of thinking of you having your own children lets just think about you, right. Here I am pretty happy, 30 years old. But where did I come from? About 30 years ago, I was in my mother's womb developing as an embryo and then fetus. But where did I come from before that? About nine months before I was born, I was conceived meaning that the sex cells from my parents, the sperm fertilized the egg and I received my very first cell with a full genome. Half from mom, half from dad. And of course about 30 minutes to one full day before conception, there was a pretty important physical interaction my biological mother and biological father had to go through, the act of sexual intercourse. For me to be here today, standing here, teaching this course to you. All three of these previous events must have happened. My parents must have found each other and exchanged sex cells. They must have had a successful fertilization of these sex cells. And they must have had a successful development in utero, or growing in my mother's womb. Now while I owe a lot to my mom and dad for bringing me into this world, I really owe their sex cells. Or what we call gametes. Gametes are either sperm or eggs, sperm in male, eggs in females. And germ cells make gametes. Germ cells are the precursors to the sex cells. And in this case the word germ. Doesn't mean germ like bacteria it means germ like germination, like a flower. The cells that make our gametes are called germ cells because they are the seed for our germination. So understanding how germ cells make gamete is a really critical component to understanding which alleles you're going to get from which parent. Let's talk a little bit more about how that process of cell division is going to occur. Now, you have quite a few cells in your body, several trillion to be exact. And all cells in your body had to divide at some point in their lives, because cell division is part of the cell replication process, where one cell will actually end up dividing into two daughter cells. And so, for us to understand how the DNA gets passed down to these daughter cells, we need to understand a bit more about this whole process, in general. Now, we've learned already that every cell has 46 chromosomes, arranged in 23 pairs. Each chromosome exists in a pair. And half that pair came from mom, and half that pair came from dad. Let's say I'm heterozygous for the trait of lactose metabolism. What this means is, I have one chromosome with a dominant allele for lactase persistence and I have another chromosome with a recessive allele for lactase non persistence. So these means that this cell and every other cell in my body is heterozygous. This means that every cell has one copy of the dominant allele for lactase persistence that has the ability to continue lactase expression into adulthood. If we assume that there is not any DNA duplication before cell division, how many chromosomes would each of these daughter cells receive? And assume an even or equal division in this process, even though there's no DNA duplication. Go ahead and put the number you think, in this box here. There would be 23 chromosomes in each daughter cell. Think about this for a second. You have 23 pairs of chromosomes. That's 46 chromosomes total. If we don't do any kind of DNA duplication, we've got 46 in this mother cell here. So without any kind of duplication, we have to divide into two even or equal daughter cells here. We're going to split that 46, and we're going to end up with 23. Not 23 pairs, but 23 chromosomes total. If cells didn't double their DNA before dividing, then every time they divided they would cut their genome in half from 46 chromosomes to 23 in each daughter cell. All the chromes would line up in pairs and then separate in a way that each daughter cell would only get one of those chromosomes. Think about how bad this would be for trying to keep genetic consistency in all your cells. You'd have one mother cell here that's heterozygous for lactose metabolism. We have a dominant and a recessive allele, one on each chromosome. There's no duplication of DNA. So, after cell division occurs, then each daughter cell would only end up with one chromosome. And think about it, because of the heterozygous nature of the mother cell, each daughter cell is going to have a different genotype, a different genetic makeup. One will have the dominant allele for lactase persistence, and the other will have the recessive allele for lactase non-persistence. This would mean you'd have cells in your body that end up with different genotypes and different phenotypes. Therefore, before every cell division, the DNA would be duplicated. And that way, when cell division occurs, each daughter cell ends up with the same amount that the mother cell originally had before duplication. So just to make sure we're on the same page here. If DNA duplication does occur, how many chromosomes will each daughter cell have? Again, assume equal division, and put your numerical answer in this box here. So the answer to this question is, of course, 46. If we started with 46 originally, we doubled our DNA, we duplicated our chromosomes, and then we went through a division. So each daughter cell will have 46 chromosomes total. Just like the mother originally had. As long as the cell doubles its DNA before dividing, then each daughter cell will have the same amount of DNA information as the parent cell did. Sounds like a pretty important step, that all the genetic information stays intact for every division. Exactly. We call this kind of division, mitosis. Mitosis is a kind of division where the same amount of information is maintained over many cell divisions. So it's important to keep two copies of the chromosome in every cell. Right. This is how a heterozygous cell, where one copy of the chromosome has one allele and the other copy of the chromosome has another allele, when they divide and have daughter cells, both the daughter cells will also be heterozygous. So the germ cells that make up the sex cells have to go through this DNA doubling process too. Exactly. Even germ cells, if they want to divide, have to double their DNA first. But if they go through mitosis, to make and the egg and the sperm, and when the egg and the sperm fuse together, then how many chromosomes would they have? If germ cells underwent mitosis for cell division, when they produce the sperm and egg as daughter cells, they would each have 46 chromosomes. And then when the sperm and egg fuse together at fertilization, you would end up with 92 chromosomes, which is twice as many as humans are supposed to have. Yeah. That's a lot. What would happen if a germ cell went through mitosis? Now think about it for a second. Mitosis results in two cells that have the same number of chromosomes that the parent cell had, 46 chromosomes. This means that the germ cell would be making two gametes each with 46 chromosomes. If a sperm with 46 chromosomes fertilizes an egg that also has 46 chromosomes, then that would result in a cell with 92 chromosomes. That's twice as much as human cells are supposed to have. If we take this to its logical conclusion, while the first humans would have 46 chromosomes, the next generation would have 92 and the next generation would have 184. And the next generation would have 368, and so forth and so on. We would just be in this endless arms race, doubling our chromosomes every generation. So this, just doesn't work. Germ cells go through a very special kind of division, called meiosis. And this division is different from every other cell type in your body. And the reason is specifically, to solve this problem of having too many chromosomes at fertilization. What happens is DNAs duplicated just like in mitosis, but then there's a round of cell division. And then the resulting cells, without duplicating their DNA again, go through another round of cell division and in this case we separate out. Every chromosome now, is not in a pair. The pairs have been broken up. How many chromosomes would a gamete have after meiosis? Go ahead and put your, numerical answer in this box here. Hopefully you pretty easily got to the answer of 23. 23 chromosomes will be in each resulting gamete after miosis. We undergo a round of DNA duplication, and then we do two cell division processes. This reduces our chromosome count by half, from 46 to 23. So gametes produced from germ cells through the process of meiosis end up with only 23 chromosomes, whereas the germ cells, their parent cells, had 46 chromosomes. This is essential to make sure that at fertilization, the sperm and the egg combine 23 chromosomes a piece to get 46 total, the complete genome necessary to make a human. Now, this particular process of DNA duplication with two rounds of cell division is unique to meiosis, and only germ cells do it. All other cells in your body divide through a process of mitosis, where there's one DNA duplication event and only one cell division. Now, take a look at the gametes here, the sex cells produced as a product of meiosis. There are no chromosome pairs anymore, every chromosome pair is split up. And alleles ended up going to their own gamete. This is called the law of segregation. This law simply means that allele pairs separate during gamete formation. This is something that's been known for a very long time. In fact, Gregor Mendel, who you saw in lesson one, was the first person to ever identify this particular phenomenon. So based on what you see here and what you now know about the law of segregation, what is the probability that the dominant lactase persistence allele, the plus symbol here, will get past on, carried onto the next generation? There's about a 50% chance that you'll pass either the dominant or the recessive allele on to the next generation. Let's just look at this for a second. If one germ cell produces four gametes, ultimately, and there's random segregation of these alleles; out of four possible gametes here, one had the dominant, one had the recessive, another had the recessive, and another had the dominant. That's four possible combinations. And two out of those four were the dominant ones. And two out of the four were recessive. Two out of four is one half. One half is the same as 50%. In genetics, understanding how allele pairs segregate in all their possible combinations for all the chromosomes, and then recombine in the offspring at fertilization to produce all the different genotypes and phenotypes we can get, is one of the most complicated parts of genetics. We're only scratching the surface here really understanding what's going on in miosis. So there's a handy way of thinking about how these allele pairs separate using a tool called a punnet square. Now some of you may have heard of this before. We're going to take a quick look at how we can use punnet squares to help us understand this segregating alleles problem a little better. Let's imagine for a second that we have two parents. a mom and a dad. These are two individuals here and we're going to focus only on chromosome two, which has the lactase gene controlling lactose intolerance. Dad is homozygous recessive for lactase non-persistence. This means that dad is going to be lactose intolerant, because he's not going to make enough lactase as an adult To be able to metabolize lactose. Mom on the other hand is homozygous-dominant for lactase persistence. This means mom is going to be lactose tolerant, she's going to keep expressing lactase into adulthood. Now the question is, if they have a child What are the possible genotypes and phenotypes of their children? This is when our punnet squares are going to come in handy. Let's take the possible segregated allele combinations we can have for the dad. If his pair of homozygous recessive alleles segregate, we can get one gamete with a recessive allele, and another gamete with a recessive allele. Now we can do the same thing for the mom here. She can either pass on a dominant allele or another dominant allele. So if we want to figure out what their offspring could be, genotypically, or what genotype they will be, all we have to do is fill in this punnet square. Look at this box, combine the column and the row. We can have a plus and a minus here. You can have a plus and a minus here. You can have a plus and a minus here. You can have a plus and a minus here. It turns out that all the possible combinations appear to be the same. So, based on these results, what percentage of the children will be lactose intolerant, like the dad? Go ahead and put your answer and percentage form here. So the percentage of individuals that'll end up being lactose intolerant, like the dad is zero, none. To be lactose intolerant, you have to be homozygous recessive. None of the possible combinations from our Punnett square showed us we could be homozygous recessive, so none of our offspring are going to to be lactose intolerant. They'll all be tolerant like their mom. However, they don't have the same genotype as their mother. Now I'm sure you were a pro at what you just did, so let's try to make things a little more complicated. Now the nice thing in genetics is if we want to make things complicated, all we have to do is add one more gene. And boom, we've increased our complication factor exponentially here. So we are starting kind of slow, we're just going to try to do two genes at once now instead of one. Let's try to look at the trait of lactose intolerance and dwarfism at the same time. Now, the lactase gene is on chromosome two. And the FGFR3 gene, which, controls the trait of achondroplasia, which causes dwarfism, is on chromosome four. And let's say we have an individual who's heterozygous for both conditions. They're heterozygous For lactase persistence, so they are lactose tolerant, and they're also heterozygous for the dominant allele that causes dwarfism. Which means that they're also going to be a little person. Now, to help us know which plus and minus symbol goes with which trait. I'm going to put in L next to the alleles for lactose intolerance and a D next to the alleles for dwarfism. Now instead of trying to figure out all the probabilities of what the next generation would be. Let's just focus in on how this one person is heterozygous for both of these traits is actually going to make their gametes. And what are the possible allelle combinations for them to make their gametes? So after meiosis, how many different allelic combinations or genotypes can there possibly be for this individual? They're heterozygous for the lactase gene and they're heterozygous for the gene causing dwarfism. Okay, there would be four possible combinations. Because chromosome pairs are split up during meiosis, right? We learned that a couple exercises ago. An then that means that this pair of chromosome two, we could get the dominant lactase allele in one gamete and the recessive lactase allele in another gamete. Well this gamete is also going to have one chromosome from the chromosome four pair and it could get either the recessive allele or the dominant dwarfism allele. But it could also have gone the other way, where the dominant dwarfism allele ended up with the dominant lactase allele, and the recessive lactase allele ended up with the recessive dwarfism allele. You will notice that each of these four genotypes is distinct and entirely possible based on the process of the law of segregation. Okay, the answer to this question which can really be tricky is two possible combinations of the alleles, let's take a look at why that is. Remember just like before we were going to have our first division and were going to separate our pairs of chromosome two, so great we separated it them. Well the alleles are already all connected here on the single chromosome split, so, it doesn't matter what happens with our chromosome fours in this case. We could go to either side, it doesn't matter. They're not going to change our allele combination, so let's just even remove them altogether. Now, let's actually take a look. Okay, let's split these, and split these. We've got plus-minus combination, plus-minus combination for lactase persistence in dwarfism, and then minus-plus of recessive dominant combinations over here for lactase persistence in dwarfism. So, that's two combinations. Okay. Let's go back and see if we split them to the other side. They went to different sides during the cell division. Well, and then we split them again and you'll notice that it doesn't matter. These alleles are traveling together. In fact, it appears that these alleles are physically linked together on the same chromosome. This is a real problem for increasing genetic diversity. Looking at the possible combinations of alleles for just two different genes. We've now cut the number of combinations we could get in half. Because everybody's linked together on the same chromosome. The cell actually has a solution to this problem to help us maximize allelic variation and combinations. Even when genes are linked on the same chromosome. Okay, hopefully you realized that in this particular situation, we're back to four possible genotypic combinations in our gametes. Having genes far enough apart on the same chromosome allows alleles to be mixed and matched in such a way that we can get those missing combinations that we wouldn't have gotten otherwise if the genes were so close together that they appeared linked. Just so you guys know, if you've had any trouble understanding this. This is one of the most difficult concepts to understand as a beginner. But it is also one of the most difficult concepts to teach. So if you have trouble understanding this, it's probably all my fault. And, what I'd really like for you to do is go to the forums and chat with some of your fellow classmates. See what you've seen posted there. I'm going to try to put some helpful links in the instructor's notes. Most of recombination is not something that we really need a lot of for the rest of the class, other than understanding the importance of recombination and how it provides genetic diversity. But if you have any interest in understanding it better or knowing more, please there are so many great resources out there to help understand this. It is an amazing phenomenon in biology and really is an evolutionary marvel. I know I must have said it a thousand times if I've said it once. But you have two copies of every chromosome. One from Mom and one from Dad. I find it easier to understand where my chromosomes come from if I color them pink, say, for the ones that came from Mom, and blue for the ones that came from Dad. But let's not forget that your Mom and your Dad also had chromosomes from their parents, the maternal and paternal lines of their own, your maternal grandma and grandpa, and your paternal grandma and grandpa. And we could keep drawing this farther and farther back in time. But if you like to think about it, you're a mix of your grandparents as much as you are your parents. If we just look over here on your Mom's side, she had a whole set of chromosomes from her mother and a whole set of chromosomes from her father. And she didn't just pass down a whole complete chromosome set from one of her parents to you. When her germ cells underwent meiosis, her chromosomes actually crossed over. This had the effect of mixing and matching her own parents chromosomes, your grandparent's chromosomes. So that when she passed these chromosomes onto you, you'll notice that your maternal chromosomes are actually a mix of your grandparents' chromosomes, recombination is what allows you to actually have chromosomes that are mixes and matches of your grandparents'. Now we can go back in time to your great grandparents and we could have an even finer resolution map with four colors instead of two or your great great grandparents and do eight colors instead of four. And let's not forget about your Dad over here, either. Your paternal chromosomes came from your father, who had a mother and father himself. And his own maternal and paternal chromosomes underwent chromosome recombination. And the result is a mix and match of your Dad's parents' chromosomes. And then he passed one set of those chromosomes on to you. So you're also a mix of your paternal grandparents as well. So based on recombination in these inheritance patterns from your parents and grandparents, how much DNA identity do you share with any given grandparent? Go ahead and pick which answer you think is best. Okay, hopefully you gathered that you share approximately 25% genetic identity with any given grandparent. I mean think about it. Half your chromosomes come from mom and half come from dad, so you're 50% a parent and your parent is 50% their parents. And because they're able to mix and match, their parents genetic code, so that they pass on to you, any given chromosome is a, should be a roughly equal mix of their parents, you are going to be half what your parents are, half of half or 50% of 50% is 25% in this case and recombination is the main reason this is true This whole recombination thing seems pretty complicated but really important. It really is important in conjunction with the law of segregation and independent assortment, it's what makes sex so worth while genetically speaking. Now, it allows us to mix and match different genetic alleles for the next generation. But, can you think of a scenario that undermines this kind of genetic variability? Well, what if you started with a reduced genetic pool in the beginning? Well, that's true. And where might we find a population of people with less genetic variability? Inbreeding? Yep, inbreeding. This genetic shuffling can be undermined if a pedigree keeps sex within the family. Now genetically speaking, aside from all the social issues surrounding it, I want you to tell me, in light of recombination, what do you think the biggest problem is with inbreeding? Don't worry about getting your answer right or wrong here. I just want you to give me your best answer in regards to recombination. If you're mating with somebody outside of your family who doesn't have this rare variant or rare allele, there's no way your child's going to be affected. You may pass the allele on, but they'll be a carrier. There's no way they're going to be affected, because your partner doesn't have the allele themselves. But if you're mating with somebody in your family, there's a possibility, high possibility that they also have this rare allele. And the fact that both of you could give that allele to the child indicates a much higher probability the child's going to be affected by that recessive trait. Now that you know some of the basics of gene transmission by learning from pedigrees, I want you to check out this brand new one. So I want you to tell me, what looks different about the affected individuals in this pedigree? The main thing that you should have picked up on in this pedigree that's different from all the others is that the only affected individuals are males. There are no affected females in this pedigree. So this pedigree of red-green colorblindness is an example of a sex-linked inheritance pattern where the trait itself only affects one sex as far as we can tell. In this case males. Now although the trait only presents in males, the allele theoretically can be transmitted through the female line, even though they are unaffected. Now, based on what you know about the sex chromosomes; two X chromosomes make a female, and an X and a Y chromosome make a male. Is the allele that causes this trait on the X or Y chromosome? And do you think the allele that causes this trait is dominant or recessive? So the answer to this question is that it's the X chromosome. And it's likely to be recessive. Now, how do we come up with that? Well, we're pretty sure that it can't be the Y chromosome. Think about it. Take this father as an example. This father up here is affected, that means he'd have a Y chromosome with the affected allele. He had two daughters. Did he give his Y chromosome to a daughter? No, there's no way, right? Because they're daughters. Daughters are by definition XX. So if this daughter is XX, she didn't get any affected Y from the father. So how did she pass on the trait to her son? Right, that just doesn't make sense. It must be the X. Here the X is affected. And the father passes that X on to this daughter. But because this daughter has another X from the mother that's unaffected, you don't see the trait. She's just a carrier. But when she has a son, the son is XY, the son has to get the X from the mother, she gave him the recessive allele X. And we also suspect that this trait, this allele causing this trait is recessive. Because as we mentioned before in our autosomal inheritance pattern pedigrees. Recessive traits tend to skip generations, and unaffected parents have affected offspring. Whereas dominant traits show up in every generation. Or almost every generation, and many times affected parents have affected offspring, and that's not the case for this pedigree. Now it's no secret, the Y chromosome is so much smaller than the X chromosome. And there's an amazingly cool story behind all of this. Please go read about it. It's amazing. It's been going on for a long time. The Y chromosome has been getting smaller and smaller for the last oh, I don't know 100 million years or so. But the result has had dramatic implications for genes that are expressed from the X chromosome and they don't exist on the Y chromosome. Think about it for a second. Let's say we're interested in this gene that causes red green colorblindness and it's on the X chromosome. Well, females have two X chromosomes. So anytime we're looking at their inheritance patterns. It's pretty much the same thing and straightforward as we've ever looked at for the autosomes, because females have two copies. They have two alleles, they can be homozygous they can be heterozygous, they can be plus, plus, plus minus, or minus, minus. And for recessive traits, when they're homozygous recessive, then they're going to show the trait, let's say, for red green color blindness. But for the sake of it, let's say that the female is heterozygous, dominant recessive. So they're not actually red-green colorblind, but they carry an allele for it. Males don't have that luxury. It's almost like the females have a backup copy, functioning copy of the gene, so they aren't red-green colorblind. But males sure they have one X chromosome. The Y chromosome is missing the piece of information that would correlate to the same region on the X chromosome. They don't have this gene. So if the male has the dominant copy grade, he's going to see color vision just fine. But if he inherits even just one allele, one recessive allele for red-green colorblindness, that's all it takes. He doesn't have anything to counteract the effect, and so he's going to be red-green colorblind. So in our pedigree up at the top here, we have an affected great-grandfather. And if he is XY, we know that he has an affected allele. If he has any daughter, he must pass that allele on, because both daughters are XX. They get one X from mom and one X from dad. And the X that came from dad had to have been the one with the recessive alleles. So both of these daughters are carriers. They have to be, because we know they're unaffected. See they're not shaded, that means they're not red green colorblind. It must have gotten the recessive allele from their father. And then if we look at this individual's children here, these two. She had an unaffected daughter, we have no idea if she passed on the recessive allele or not because it's masked. But in the case of her son, we see very clearly, he must have the recessive allele because he's affected. So, although the trait looks like it skipped a generation, right? It looks like it went from grandfather to grandson. The allele didn't skip anybody, the allele went right from grandfather to mother to son. You can see it, you can track it in the pedigree. So the lesson from all of this is that, although phenotypes appear to skip generation sometimes, the alleles never skip. And in the case of sex-linked traits, when they're linked to either the X or the Y chromosome, because there're some traits linked only to the Y chromosome. The patterns can be a little bit more tricky to discern because the males don't have another copy to complement their X chromosome. Hi, I'm Geoff Donaker. I live here in the Bay Area, California Bay Area, and I have red and green color blindness. Okay, so red green color blindness. We you know, just sort of heard about that for the first time in the course, and we're learning a bit more about the inheritance patterns. What is red green colorblindness? What does it mean to be red green colorblind? Well, to me, what it means is that I often mix up colors that have red in them. And so, in particular I mix up reds and browns and sometimes browns and greens because I'm not seeing the red correctly in those. Sometimes it can even show up in the form of blues and purples. I'm sort of seeing them all as about the same and in fact, you know, they may look different to other people. When did you first know that you had red-green colorblindness? Yeah, I don't really remember. It was when I was really young child. my uncle had been red-green color blind, and then actually my mom's uncle as well. So I think I inherited it from her side. And so when I was a little kid she recognized that I might be color blind or had this propensity. And so she had me tested at, you know, one of the eye doctors, with looking at those little bubble charts with colors that you may remember having taken at some point. So you were very young when your, I guess, your mother found this out. That's right. And did it I mean, was it a, did it cause any issue? I mean, was it like, okay, we knew this was a possibility and now, what kind of, if anything, was there to do at that point? Not really much. you know, as I say, her brother and uncle had had it, and so she was sort of aware of it. And, you know, it's useful to know that you see the world in different colors than everybody else just so you can be prepared. and, you know, obviously that's something that I just am aware of today too. So that I I don't say, you know, this is definitely purple to other people if they, if I realize, I go oh, it might actually be blue, and you know others are saying it's blue. How do people respond to this particular trait of red-green color blindness? I'd say that you know probably about half of people that I interact with already know somebody closely who is red-green color blind, so it's no news to them. And they'll just say, oh yeah, my brother is also, or something of that nature. And then the other half, it's a like a great party trick. So the first time they hear that you're red-green color blind, what they want to do is walk around the room going What color's this? What color's this? What color's this? What color's? You know, which is fun for about 30 seconds or so. [LAUGH] Then you're kind of ready to move on. But that's been my general experience over the years. Take a look at this very, very simple pedigree for red-green color blindness. I'm going to tell you a lot of things here, right? This is a very small pedigree. I don't want you to have to make a lot of assumptions. We know that the trait we're talking about is red-green color blindness, which means we know it's X-linked. We also know that it's recessive. We see the father is affected by the trait and the mother is unaffected. I'm also going to give you the information that the mother is homozygous for whatever genotype she is. What is the probability of this male and female having an affected child? The probability goes from 0 to a 100%. I want to you pick up a percentage and put it in a box right here. So the probability of this would be, a big old zero. Now why is that? Well, we know that if the mother is homozygous and unaffected, it means that she is homozygous, and she has the dominant normal alleles. The father is affected, so he must have a recessive allele on the X, and nothing on the Y. Well, of all the possible combinations that could happen, the father could pass on the Y, and you'd get a boy. But the mother's going to give an X in both of those cases, and both of her X's are, are dominant, non color-blind alleles, so the son is going to be regular color vision. The father can pass on the recessive allele from his X. But if he does, the mother's just going to pass on the dominant allele from one of her Xs. So you, at the very most, be a carrier but you wouldn't be affected. Determining the probability that a child will inherit a particular trait is what genetic counselors do for a living. And sometimes all they have to rely on, is pedigree information. This is tricky business. This means they've got to calculate probability over multiple generations without knowing the genotypes for sure of everybody. But only knowing whether or not a trait was present in a family. For example take a look at this pedigree here, it represents an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. What is the probability that these two people indicated by the arrows, will have an effected child for this particular trait? Now I'm not going to give you options for this question. This is going to be tricky and possibly really hard for you to come up with. But I want you to see what it's like a little bit to try to do the job of a genetic counselor. Calculating probabilities from a limited amount of information. I want you to feel comfortable putting in a percentage, a decimal, or a fraction, whatever answer you can come up with. Remember, you're probably going to have to think backwards about. Whose genotype is what, based on the phenotypic information that you have in front of you. Go ahead and give it your best shot. I love problems like this, they're so much fun, they're like logic puzzles you have to work through. Even if you don't get them right the first try, it's really fun to keep going, and try to gather as much information as you can, to make the best possible guess. In this case the answer I was looking for is 1 6th, or one out of six. You might have also had 1.6 repeating. Or something around 16.6% repeating, something like that. Fractions are easier to deal with here so let's try to work with that. Let's think about this for a second. We know it's an autosomal recessive pedigree so if that's true, it means males and females are affected equally because this is on an autosomes somewhere. This affected male here, this must mean that he is homozygous recessive. If he's homozygous recessive, we know that his parents had at least one recessive copy a piece, because he would have had to have gotten both of his copies from his parents. Well, they must have a recessive copy, but they're not affected. This means they must have a dominant, normal copy here. So his parents must be heterozygous. We figured all that out already. So now let's look at his siblings. We know they're not affected so they're not minus minus, but they could be either plus plus or plus minus. Right, so there are two options here. Let's focus on this female, because this female is involved in the reproductive event here. So to figure out what the probability is that this individual is heterozygous because that's the only way that they can pass this allele on and have an affected child. Is we gotta figure out the probability of this individual being heterozygous. We're going to do the Punnet squares of the parents. Right if the mom and dad here are both hets. Then we could either have a plus plus, a plus minus, a plus minus, or a minus minus. Now, we know already it can't be a minus minus. So let's get rid of that option right there. That gives us three options left. Two out of three of those are the het. So we're going to say she's a two thirds probability. Of being heterozygous. Now let's do the same thing over here. We know that the mother is infected, which means that she is homozygous recessive, in the same way that we figure it out over here. Her son is unaffected. So that means he must have at least one normal dominant copy. But he must also have one recessive copy, because the mother only had a recessive copy to give. So he must be heterozygous. That's a probability of one that he's heterozygous. Now, if he's heterozygous and the person he's mating with is also heterozygous. Set up their Punnett squares. They could have a plus plus, a plus minus, a plus minus, or a minus minus. Only one of these cases is an effected individual, the homozygous recessive, so that's one in four. So now what we have to do is multiply all our probabilities together. We don't add them we multiply them. So the probability that this guy is heterozygous. Is one. So we do one. The probability that the mother is heterozygous is 2 3rds and the probability that they'll actually have an offspring that's affected is 1 4th. So this would be 2 over 12 which is equal to 1 over 6. Now, that's a simple one. Imagine if I gave you a hard one. Hopefully, you'll have a little more respect for those genetic counsellors. So, my name is Kelly Chen, I consider myself a Bay Area native. I grew up on Freemont and, I'm a Genetic Counselor. And, technically, I guess my title is Perinatal Genetic Counselor. So I focus on patients who are pregnant, or thinking about pregnancy. So walk us through wa, what is it like? I mean, who, what kind of patient comes to you, and how does the workflow process work, when they seek out a genetic counselor? So the workflow for a perinatal genetic counselor, and perinatal is actually, kind of a new phrase we created at where I work. Traditionally the word has been prenatal, so before birth, and then there's postnatal. And now that we are doing so much intervention before birth that affects after birth, we use the combination of perinatal. So most of the patients that I see, are pregnant actively pregnant, and thinking about doing some testing, to check for either genetic conditions or birth defects. sometimes we see patients before they get pregnant, but they know they want to have children, and know that they might be at risk for a certain condition. So our appointments are fairly, they're like office consultations. We do a little prep work, we might contact them on the phone, and get a little family history, or medical history. and then our meeting with them is probably, 40 minutes, 40 to 60 minutes long. and then afterwards, if we've ordered testing or there's other appointments to make, we'll follow up and, and help patients with that. I'm really curious about the, the testing. So do patients come to you and say, I want to know what's in my genes, or what I pass on, and you guys do a test for them? Yeah, so I think our patients are a little biased. I mean, I'm sure there, it seems like there, there are certainly patients out there, who would say, or people out there who would say, that they don't want to learn, know their genetic status. And those patients we never end up seeing, because they would just decline an appointment with us. So those that we do see, definitely are interested in some kind of genetic information. Whether it's for themselves or primarily, for their pregnancy or for their future child. so yeah, so sometimes there's something specific in the family that we're looking for. We've had some patients just say, test me for everything. I want to know everything, and we have to explain. Are the science, science and technology's not quite there yet and so, we're trying to pinpoint what can we offer you. Accurate testing, specific testing, something that would be helpful to you. So a lot of what I do is, I think of it as a consultation, but also just providing information. I see us as a link, between physicians and patients. That, traditionally doctors ordered tests that are fairly straightforward, like a blood count, or a blood type, or something like that, and they can easily tell patient what that means in a sentence. With this genetic testing, it's much more complicated than that. it's not always a straightforward yes or no, and doctors don't have time to spend with patients explaining that. And so I see us as a bridge between that, being able to help patients decipher and interpret this information, and then also helping them make decisions based on those results. because a lot of decisions to be made, especially in pregnancy, are not always medical decisions, they're personal decisions about what patients want to do about information about their future offspring. so, so prenatal specifically, is an interesting ethical realm, because we're also dealing. Sure. With pregnancy and, and termination. What's the most difficult aspect about it, if I can ask? is it? Is it patients actually, you know, deciding about, you know, continuing the pregnancy versus not? are there significant traits that they have to deal with? I just, I'm looking for some kind of idea when it does, when it does get gray. Yeah. As far as the difficult part of the job. Yeah. So yeah, no, you bring up a good point, I actually hadn't thought about that before. And one of the difficulties in the job, in what I do with pregnancy is, we're not always we're certainly talking about genetic testing. Sometimes we're dealing with other kinds of testing in pregnancy, like ultrasounds. So video picture of the baby, where you see a physical problem, that might be something that suggests a genetic condition like Down Syndrome, or something else. And seeing the physical problem, doesn't guarantee what the outcome's going to be. And so that is one difficulty in prenatal, that you don't have a live person in front of you to say, oh this person is actually fine, maybe they have an extra finger or toe, but they're otherwise healthy. In a pregnancy, you don't, you don't have that baby in front of you, and you can't check if there's other things going on. So I think that definitely is one difficult aspect of what I do, specifically. and I would just say, in general, just dealing with pregnant patients is tough. Pregnancy is a time limited event. So I feel like of all the subspecialties in genetic counseling, prenatal is usually the one most time sensitive. We're under deadlines for scheduling appointments, seeing patients, test results and just the anxiety of the patients themselves. They also have the hormone issues to deal with. Mm-hm. Its a very emotional time. So it can be quite challenging, but it also can be quite satisfying. So I'm, I'm also curious, what is, is there a common trait or condition that you counsel for the most? Like what is, what are the things that you either end up counseling for, or do people come to you and ask the most? What are they most interested in? So, for my specific specialty in prenatal, by far I think nationwide the most common condition that we're talking about, is Down Syndrome. I was thinking about how I'd explain why. I think it's a combination of things, because the condition is genetic, but it's not inherited. so it would randomly appear, and there would be no other way to tell about it, other than to check for it in that pregnancy. And there's a known association with the age of the mom, as women get older, there's a higher chance of Down Syndrome. the insurances actually will cover testing for Down Syndrome, so that's kind of a supportive step that aids us in seeing patients. It's common, a common condition, I think about one in 800 to 1,000 births for Down Syndrome occur, and it can be a long term disability. Children with Down Syndrome grow up into adults, they have intellectual disability, they can have health issues. And so, it seems like there's enough interest in that, that we have this testing. So for my specialty, it's fairly easy. We, we talk primarily about that, and some related conditions. whereas in other specialties like Pediatrics, where I used to work it could be a range of things variety of things, depending on what a child comes in for, for us to see. Whether it's a learning problem, we think about, would make us think about certain conditions verses if it was a physical birth defect, like a heart defect or cleft lip, that would shift our gear into something else. What's the most difficult trait you've had to counsel? Is it Down Syndrome, or is there another more difficult situation or trait that you've had to lets say counsel a family on, or a couple? I mean one of my most memorable patient cases had to, not to do with the prenatal case, but a pediatric case, where we're seeing a child, and part of the list of conditions we're thinking about, was Taysacs Disease. So that one is also a known single gene recessive condition, that is common in people with Jewish background. So when we are thinking about that disease, that usually means that the child is coming in with delays, and maybe normal development, then loss of delays. so it's not like it was, it's a surprise to the family. We, we would talk to them about, this is a possibility, we're going to be ordering test for this condition. but it's always hard to have to call or contact a family, and tell them, this is, this is a condition. So I think any kind of test result that confirms a condition, that It has high risk for complications, or early death that's never easy to. Sure. To, to convey. So do families really have all this information? Like, are you able to build like, these massive pedigrees? [LAUGH] Or do you end up building these sort of more like, just maybe two or three generations pedigrees? So, families vary in how much information they can give us for pedigrees. I see a lot of patients, also, that I should mention, that come from other countries, especi, specifically Asia, where, not as, not much is known about family members. People don't talk about conditions in the family. So the ped, and, and people don't have that many children, so the pedigrees can be very sparse. So just like a circle, and a square, and a circle, and a square, and that's it. And then all the way to families who have their whole genealogy trees mapped out, with the aid of all these online tools, and so they come in with their pedigrees already drawn. So it's really a fun part of our drob, job, but it's also efficient to draw this out instead of trying to describe all these people. Well I have a really interesting question. Mm. To ask for all of our students, who might be struggling with pedigrees out there. Hm. How do you as an actual genetic counsel, let's say you're studying a trait. How do you distinguish when you're looking at traits that, a recessive or dominant trait, and put it in context of what you think's going on? So, the so, trying to figure out a trait, whether it's dominant, recessive, or vera-axeling, those are the top three modes of inheritance, that we're looking at. We actually have a term called pedigree analysis. and, you know, it's a subjective thing, but it really is looking at the pedigree and going through, kind of, all the rules of what dominant inheritance looks like, what recessive inheritance looks like. So if you see a trait that happens in a grandparent, a parent, and a child, then that's much more likely to be a dominant trait. If you see a condition where multiple brothers and sisters are affected and by, chance maybe their parents are related to each other, and no one else in the family has the trait. Then that's more likely or suggestive of something recessive. And then if you see, only boys affected through moms, that could be more X-linked. So the pedigree really does help us try to figure out modes of inheritance. Thank you so much. Thank you very much for the opportunity. Okay, let's try one last interesting pedigree before wrapping up here. We're going to turn our focus to the sometimes ignored mitochondrial DNA and look at an inheritance pattern that's referred to as maternal inheritance. And it's maternal because it's inherited via the mitochondrial DNA. So based on just that information alone, I want to see if you can tell me, which children would be affected. All of these with the question marks here, I haven't told you, if they're going to be affected or not. Based on all the information you see here, and knowing that this is a maternal inheritance pattern, I want you to check the boxes for which children would be affected. So, the answer to this question should be, the middle three children should be shaded in as affected. Now think about this for a second if you had trouble; maternal inheritance means it can only be inherited from the mother. Why is that? You only get mitochondria from the mother. So, in this case the affected mother and unaffected father all of the children were affected. Both the males and the females, because they all got their mitochondria from the mother. So in this case over here the male is affected. Great. So now he's going to have his own three children, but does he pass mitochondria down to children? No, he doesn't. Only the mother does that, so they wouldn't be affected. Same thing over here. Male was affected but he doesn't pass his mitochondria down. The mother was unaffected in these cases so they'g going to be unaffected children for this particular trait. On the other hand the females in this row were effected and since they passed their mitochondria down to the next generation all their children are affected as well In this lesson we've learned just a teeny bit more about ways we can trace through our maternal or paternal lines. So in the case of mitochondrial DNA we only inherit that from our mothers. So you can trace your maternal line back through the mitochondrial DNA. The mitochondria have been passed down from generation to generation. From great-great-great grandmother to great-great to great to grandmother to mother to you. Now the same thing is true for the Y chromosome for males. Every male is genetically XY and he had to have gotten that Y chromosome from his father, who got it from his father who got it from his father, who got it from his father, and so this Y chromosome has just been passed down. From generation to generation, through all of the male line. One of the big distinctions here, is that Mitochondrial DNA, everybody has. But the Y chromosome, only males have. We're going to revisit these concepts a little bit later, in lesson seven. When we actually try to trace an individual's lineage, on both his mother's and father's side. I hope now you understand a bit more about how information gets passed down from parent to offspring. I mean, I know I sure do. I'm just wondering where all these different alleles and variations come from in the first place. Well, then it sounds like you're ready for our next lesson on the origin of mutation and variation. Awesome. I just need to figure out how to get out of this pedigree first. Yeah, that sounds like a good plan to me. I can't seem to get past my cousins over here. Laura, no! Wait Laura, what are you doing? I'm just trying to give you superpowers, like the Mutant Ninja Turtles. No, that much mutation that fast is just going to kill me. Wait well, I'll just do it slowly. No, no, no. Even if you go slower, you won't kill me. But, I'm not going to get psychic powers, or anything like you read about in graphic novels. I mean, at best I might be lactose tolerant or resistant to malaria and HIV. Sounds pretty good to me. But, but, you can't control where the mutation's happen when you do it, I mean, there's a trade off. With malaria it can cause anemia and kill you that way. Maybe I'll just put the ooze down then. Yeah, and I mean, mutations are already happening all the time anyhow, replication errors, UV damage from the sun, and so much more. God it sounds like dangerous business just existing. Oh, it is. In this lesson, we're going to learn all about how mutation and variation happen in the first place and how they spread throughout the population over many generations. Matt, Matt, this sounds like a science fiction movie with mutations spreading through populations. Well, it kind is except we're going to talk about real mutation. Knowing what you know about the human genome, the composition of coding and non-coding regions, tell me right now if you think most mutations would be advantageous, detrimental, or neutral. Because our genome is so big and so much of it is noncoding sequence, most mutations aren't helpful or harmful, they're just neutral. In this lesson, we're going to discuss mutations. Now mutations can be good or bad depending on the individual and the context. Now, a mutation is simply a change in the DNA sequence. For example, Lauren has the mutation for lactase persistence, allowing her to drink lactose containing products like milk. Well, don't make me feel like a mutant Matt. Oh well, it's okay Lauren. In the genetics world, everybody's a mutant because mutation and variation are pretty much the same thing. So a mutation in eye color is the same thing as a variation in eye color? Exactly. In this course we're going to use the words interchangeably. So take heart, everyone out there is a mutant for something. To help you get acquainted with all sorts of new mutations in this lesson, this is an incomplete concept map for you to print off and keep along with you. Fill in the blanks as we go along. At the end of the lesson, you'll have an opportunity to fill in the blanks with the answers you've collected along the way. Now, if you're someone who still needs to see the complete concept map to learn, then please go to the end of the lesson and download the complete copy. But otherwise, please just use this version. Try to fill it out as you go along. And at the end of the lesson, you'll have a chance to see the complete version. So how exactly different are human beings? Well, our genomes are approximately 99.9% similar. That is not a lot of difference. Well, it may seem like there's not much difference between us, but our human genome is three billion letters. And if we're only 0.1% different, you tell me. What's 0.1% of 3 billion letters? .1 percent of three billion is still three million. That's still a lot of variation in a sequence. Now even if humans have 99.9% sequence identity with each other, we just saw that that still leaves 3 million letters that could be different in the human genome. Now these mutations or variations, would be considered alleles when they affect a particular phenotype. Sometimes, these alleles could result in different observable phenotypic traits such as variations in skin pigmentation. However many genetic variations result in little or no observable phenotypic variation. For example, can you indicate the sequence mutation that represents the allele causing shortened bone growth? So the answer is the third one, because the third one shows a phenotype where the bone growth is shortened or truncated compared to the other three. So although there are multiple sequence variations at this given position, only one of them is an allele that results in shortened bone growth. There's several types of mutations we can learn about in this lesson. And instead of me just telling you what they are. I'd rather show you and see how good you are on picking up on exactly what they are. Let's just take this normal human sequence that I picked randomly from the human genome. Let's make some changes to this original sequence. And I want to see if you can match the change that you see over here in the individual sequence with the type of mutation that we're going to cover in this lesson. I've numbered the types one through five. When you think you've matched up the right mutation to the right sequence here just go ahead and put that number in the box over here. See how you can do. Now, hopefully you were able to breeze right through this if you had some slight understanding of these terms over here. Now, if we compare this first sequence to the original up here, we see the only difference is a one letter change right here. That means that this is going to be a single nucleotide chain. The second sequence actually looks the same as the original, except that it's missing a CA right here. So there's been a deletion. The next one has actually had an insertion added in for have been a number two. This fourth one. Notice there was a TAC and then it got repeated and repeated again. This is what we call a Trinucleotide repeat. We have three in a row. And in this last one turned out to be a complete duplication end to end. The sequence was just duplicated over. So would be number three. Single letter changes in the genome are referred to as single nucleotide variations or SNVs. Some of you may have heard of SNVs before, but maybe under a different name. Single nucleotide polymorphism or SNPs. SNVs and SNPs are the same thing. But the convention is changing, and SNV is a newer abbreviation. It's one we're adopting in our course because it's technically more accurate. But for all intents and purposes, it means the same thing as a SNIP, if you've heard of one before. Now, SNVs or single nucleotide variations, are one of the most common forms of mutations in humans, and it represents a lot of the variation in the human gene pool. When you have an SNV, the effect it can have depends entirely on whether it's in the coding region or the non-coding region of your genome. So I want you to tell me where do you think a bigger effect would be had for an SNV? The coding region or the non-coding region? Pick one of them and then justify your answer in the text box. It turns out there isn't a right answer for this question. It could be either. It all depends on the kind of SNV we're talking about. Is it an SNV in the tata box of the promoter region? Is it an SNV in a critical coding region portion of the gene? It all depends. And in this lesson. We're going to find out which kinds of mutations can have a bigger or smaller effect. But, hopefully you were able to come up with soem scenario and justify it. In general, coding region SNVs are more likely to cause problems than non coding SNVs. Because there's more of a risk of changing the amino acid sequence of proteins. Which is going to alter their function. For example, take this sequence from the ABO gene that determines blood type. We talked about this gene in lesson three. Now, if this particular sequence. Were transcribed and translated starting right here at the start, code on region ATG. Based on the genetic code that we learned about previously in lesson three, we would obtain a protein sequence of methyianin, valine, arginine, valine, valine, and threonine. We got this by essentially dividing our sequence up into codons that we could read with our genetic code. Now take a look at these three different mutations from the original sequence. I want you to rank these single nucleotide variatons in order of what you think the most severe change would be, by numbering at number one. To the least of your change by numbering it number three. Use the numbers one, two and three to put into these boxes right here, ranking these particular SNVs. And don't forget to use the genetic code. There's a link to it on this page but you can look it up or you can print it off and keep it handy because we're going to need it for the rest of this lesson for sure. So the sequence that would probably give us the most severe change is the second one. And the reason is because TGA codes for a stop codon. A stop codon means we would produce this amino acid, methionine, then valine. And then we'd stop. And we wouldn't get anything else for the rest of the sequence. That is going to drastically alter the overall protein. Now, the next most severe change would be the first one. Because it changes the amino acid to just something else. GCG codes for alanine instead of valine. Sure, it's a change. It could possibly be bad. But, it's not as bad as a stop codon, which eliminates all the rest of the amino acids. And then this last sequence here would be the least sever, most likely because GTA is a change from GTG, and if we use the genetic code, we see that it doesn't change the amino acid at all. We still got a Valine. A single nucleotide variation, or SNV, that changes an amino acid to a stop code on like this, is called a nonsense mutation. Nonsense because it makes nonsense after this, there's nothing left. It stops translation. A single nucleotide variation, or SNV. That changes an amino acid to a different kind of amino acid is referred to as a missence mutation. It's also referred to as a non synonymous mutation. And an s and v that doesn't change the amino acid sequence at all from the original sequence, is called a silent or synonymous mutation. Now, silent mutations can accumulate because there's really no selection pressure on them. And they don't detrimentally affect the overall protein product. So one of the most common kinds of SNVs we find are silent mutation SNVs, where someone may code for a valine using a GTA, and someone else would code for valine using a GTG. Because the overall protein is unchanged, there's no direct selection pressure that can happen on the protein. It would be completely random which of these alleles would fluctuate in the gene pool. Now missense mutations could be advantageous or detrimental. It depends entirely on which amino acid is replaced and what it's replaced with. Remember, structure is function. And in this case, it all depends on what the structure of the amino acid we're coming from and the structure of the amino acid we're going to. And then we have nonsense mutations which are almost. Always detrimental, because they're going to shorten a protein sequence. Once a nonsense mutation has been induced, everything past that mutation is not going to be translated. Take a look at this long sequence right here. I've given you two mutant versions. They both have nonsense mutations. At TGA here, or UGA in the genetic code. And TAG here or UAG it would be. Both are stop codons. I want you to tell me which of these two nonsense mutations is going to be more severe, and then I want you to tell me why in this text box right here. So both of these mutations are nonsense mutations meaning they both introduce stop codons. But one happens much sooner than the other one does. So it's most likely to be more severe. Think about it for a second. The earlier the mutation, the nonsense mutation that comes in the sequence, the shorter the overall protein's going to be. Which means if this nonsense mutation happens at the very end of the sequence, okay well we're not going to lose very much of our protein. But if it happens way up front, towards the beginning of the sequence, then yeah we're going to lose a lot of the proteins and it's probably going to have a major effect because we're missing far more amino acids. Again while this is a general rule, it is possible that sometimes there's not as big of a difference, because you could imagine there's certain parts of proteins that are more important than others. And so even when you delete big stretches not too much happens. Still, in general, the sooner or the earlier a stop codon happens, a nonsense mutation, the worse effect it's going to have on the function of the overall protein. Crohn's disease is an inflammatory bowel disorder that has a genetic association with variations in the NOD2 or nod two gene. One mutation in the NOD2 gene inserts a Cytosine or C at position 3,020 of the coding region as shown right here. Before the mutation, the amino acid sequence is Q-A-L-E-R-N, which would be: glutamine or Gln; alanine or Ala; leucine or Leu; glutamate or Glu; arginine or Arg, and asparagine or Asn. So what will the resulting amino acid sequence be after the mutation? I want you to write your answer in the text box here. And I want you to use the single letter abbreviations for amino acids. Obviously if you need to use the genetic code please use it. It's embedded on this page and you can also find the link to it. But we know the first part of the answer because that sequence hasn't changed. We know it's going to be QA for glutamene and alamine. But then what's going to happen here? Instead of CTT, we're going to get CCT. Where's CCU in the genetic code? And CCU codes for P or Proline, PRO. Well lets go to the next one, well now look what's happened, we've shifted and this T here now goes into the next corner so we get TGA, we come to the generic code and we find that a TGA codes for nothing, its a stop code on, so that means protein synthesis ends, no more translation, done, stop, finito, right, [FOREIGN]. All we get are these three amino acids right here. Any mutation that results in changing the overall reading frame is called a frame shift mutation. It just means a mutation that alters the reading frame of translation which is exactly what happened here. Cytosine got inserted, and then everything got pushed down a notch. And it's not just that it got pushed down, all the later codons changed because of this shift. Often times frameshift mutations result in premature stop codons which is exactly what happened here. And this is exactly what happens in Crohn's Disease. This particular mutation is associated with Crohn's disease because the NOD2 gene, when a C gets inserted, The reading frame gets shifted. A premature stop codon shows up, a nonsense mutation now and the overall protein is shortened or truncated. Losing it's original function thus causing this particular disorder. Take this particular sequence here. I've even numbered the positions for you for all 15 letters in the sequence. I want you tell me which of the following five options would result in a frameshift to the sequence. Go ahead and check any and all boxes that you think apply. Okay the answer to this question, the options that would result in a frameshift mutation are the first, the second and the last. Now this was a little bit tricky. I was trying to be a little deceitful on you here because the position of the insertion or deletion makes no difference. So you can ignore it. What we care about is when we actually have the insertion. Or deletion are we shifting our frame by a multiple of three or not? If we're shifting by a multiple of 3, 6, 9 then we are going to keep everything down from the insertion and deletion in frame it's still going to be the same set of three letters, the same codons all the way down. But if we insert one letter, delete one letter, insert two letters, or delete two letters, its going to throw off everything downstream to a different frame. Same thing is true of four letters, or five letters, or seven letters, or eight letters. Anything that's not a multiple of three is going to cause a frame-shift mutation. If you're having trouble understanding the idea of a frameshift, try to think about it like this very simple sentence here. The dog can eat and run, is made up of words with only three letters in them. If we were forced to read words as sets of three letters And let's say I deleted this letter right here. The e in eat. Then we'd end up with the dog can ata ndr un. Right we can't read this. This doesn't make sense anymore. We're out of frame. Whereas if we had just deleted the whole word eat we would end up with the dog can and run. And sure, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense to have the e removed, but at least all of these are words, and they make sense, and it gives semblance to the original sequence. This is what makes frame shifts so dangerous. Is because frame shifts throw off everything else downstream. Insertions, deletions, and SNVs can really screw up a coding region. But where do they come from? Well, mutations can come from lots of different places. But these types, in particular, predominantly come from replication errors. So, do you mean, like, the DNA is actually replicated? Exactly. Inside a cell, there's molecular machinery responsible. Doing all the work for replicating the DNA. And sometimes it makes a mistake. Does it fix its mistakes? it does. your body does a good job at fixing mistakes. But even after fixing all those mistakes, it still misses some and you have a mutation rate of about one in every 300 million letters. I like those odds, that doesn't sound that bad. It's true, it doesn't sound too bad until you consider that there are there three billion letters in the human genome. And you've got six billion, counting both copies in every cell. So that turns out at about 60 new mutations every time a cell divides. Wow. That really does build up. It does build up over time but, those mutations are great new source of variation for new alleles. One of the bigger problems the replication machinery has, is when it reaches a repeat region in your genome, it has to copy it. Are you talking about when they reach a point where there's like a bunch of thymines in a row? Exactly. I want you to take a look at the sequence you see here. Now, imagine that you're the replication machinery inside a cell and you have to duplicate this DNA. To do that you have to copy it letter for letter into the text box you see here. Remember, don't make a mistake. How did you do? Did you get it right on the first try? Or did you have to do a re-submission? If you got it right, then you know that there are 21 Ts in that middle region of the DNA sequence. And imagine how ever hard of a time you had, your molecular machinery, also has to get it right too. You're right. Its really hard to keep track of where you are. Exactly. And the replication machinery inside your cell has an equally difficult time. It literally slips on these repeat regions, which can cause deletions or additions of sequence. You know, I think, you're right, I've heard about this before. In psychology, there's a disorder where there's repeats in the CAG? Yeah, so that's called Huntington's Disease. Yeah, yeah. Huntington's Disease is a neurodegenerative disorder affecting the brain, and eventually causing death. Due to an abnormal number of repeat regions in a gene within your genome specifically the CAG repeats. Now a normal person unaffected by Hungtington's, would have around 25 or possibly fewer CAG repeats. But as repeat errors occur, if you get up to 40 or more CAG repeats, then you're going to be someone who's affected by Huntington's. So having repeats causes slippage in the first place, then having more repeats, will it just cause more slippage and more likely to pass it down to your children? Unfortunately, that's true. And that's exactly what happened to an individual named Katherine Moser whose story was written about in the New York Times. At age 23 Miss Moser found out well before the onset of Huntington's that she had 45 CAG repeats. More than her grandfather had who actually died of Huntington's. It's just a really sad story. It's really unfortunate also because there's currently no cure for Huntington's. All we can do is treat the symptoms. I want to ask, would you want to know how many CAG repeats you had and if you're going to develop Huntington's. Talking about traits like Huntington's disease that's caused by replication errors is just depressing. It is depressing, but not all replication errors have to be so harmful. Actually, some replication errors can be kind of good long-term, and they actually duplicate whole segments of DNA. > So, are you talking about duplicating a whole gene? Sure. sometimes a whole segment of DNA gets duplicated where gene is involved and the net effect is that an individual has an extra copy of the gene. But why is that a good thing? Well, you can think about it as a new source of material for evolution to act on. So the extra copy, one can just have a mutation and have a whole new function? Sure. That's exactly what happened with our beta globin genes. Through a process known as duplication and divergence, an ancestral globin gene was duplicated several times, and each of the copies mutated slightly to have a different ability and expression pattern. Now, each of these globin genes is important in oxygen binding, and only expressed at different stages of human development. So, in this case, the replication error caused something that was overall a positive thing. Yeah, over time, that's exactly what happened. Lauren, hey, what're you, what're you doing? All that talk of mutations is really sobering, so I just kind of came out here to relax and sunbathe. Yeah, but you realize sunlight causes all kinds of mutations, right? Matt, I can't get away from you. What are you talking about? Of course, like UV light from the sun is a major source of induced mutations. There's UVA, UVB rays from the sun. They directly cause mutations and can cause other molecules to indirectly cause mutations. In fact, if you've ever had a, a sunburn before where your skin cells turn red and then peel off. It's because you got so many mutations that your body couldn't fix them all, and so they committed self-suicide to save you from skin cancer. It's a good thing that I wore sunscreen today, but I really wish my skin would just protect itself on its own. Well, there's actually a mechanism for that. It's actually skin pigmentation. So you say if I had darker skin tone, I wouldn't be so susceptible to skin cancer? Exactly. Let's, let's go learn a bit more about how that works. Okay. If more melanin or more pigment is needed in regions where there's more UV rays, then we'd expect to find more darkly pigmented skin in equatorial regions of the earth. It turns out that sunlight doesn't just do bad things, like cause DNA damage but it also does many good things, one of which is that it stimulates vitamin D production. So here is a molecule that resides in cells in your epidermis. It's 7-dehydrocholesterol. And simply getting UV rays from the sun causes the chemistry, right? I mean this is real energy. Energy's being absorbed by this molecule. And it is structurally changing, it is chemically changing into Vitamin D3. Now this is obviously a good thing because your body needs Vitamin D. But the more melanin you produce, the more light it absorbs and so the less UV light is available for this conversion process to vitamin D. So, if you have too much melanin in regions with too little sunlight, then you're not going to get enough light to produce enough vitamin D. So as humans migrated away from the equator and into regions with less sunlight, the darker pigment prevented enough good sunlight from stimulating this vitamin D production. And as a result there were some mutations that produced less melanin and they were selected for to allow more sunlight back into the cell. Just enough sunlight so they could get some vitamin D3 but not so much sunlight that it's causing a heavy mutation burden. One allele that was selected for in an environment with less UV rays is an SNV contained in the tyrosinase coding region on chromosome 11. Here's the original sequence. And here's the variant sequence. I want you to identify the would be codon with the mutation by selecting which region you think it's in here. And then determine the type of coding region mutation that it is by selecting silent, missense, or nonsense. Remember, use your genetic code if you need it. It's in the instructor's notes in this page. So in this case the mutation, the variation, occurred here in the third codon from TCT to TAT. And then using the genetic code, you would see that this changes from a serine to a tyrosine which would be a missense mutation. So why do we care about a variation in a protein or enzyme called Tyrosinase? With Tyrosinase is the rate limiting step in the production of melanin. There are many steps to making the pigment in melanin. And some of the first are converting a molecule called Tyrosine. Actually Tyrosine, the very amino acid we've learned about and is in our amino acid alphabet, into another molecule called dopa, and from dopa into dopaquinone. Tyrosinase performs this function, but it's pretty slow, actually. Compared to all the other steps you need to get melanin. This is the part that takes the longest. So this single nucleotide variation up here. The cytosine to an adenine. The change in amino acid from serine to tyrosine, ironically enough, causes, right, that's a missense mutation now. Which causes Tyrosinase to work 40 to 50% slower than it normally does. So if this is true we would expect to see a decrease in overall melanin because we're going to make it a lot slower. If we have less melanin we're going to have lighter skin. If we have lighter skin, we're going to have UV rays that are able to get into the cells. So that they can simulate vitamin D production. So this particular mutation will give you lighter skin. Where as this sequence promotes darker skin. Now there are actually several other genes that affect skin pigmentation and they all have multiple alleles that explain all kinds of intermediate pigmentation as well as red haired individuals. But this is just one example of how a single nucleotide variation in the coding region, causing a missense mutation from a Serine to Tyrosine, slows the enzymes function by 40 or 50%, allowing for less pigment in the skin, thus letting more sunlight in. To produce vitamin D. Of course the flip side of this is the more sunlight you let in the more risk you are for DNA damage. And that's why light-skinned people when they're in really UV intense regions are much higher risk for skin cancer than dark pigmented people. Let's go talk to somebody who knows quite a bit about living in hot, UV rich equatorial regions. Hi I'm Kagure Kabue I'm from Kenya originally but I live in San Francisco now. I have darkly pigmented skin and I lived in an area that had a high prevalence for sickle cell anemia. First of all Kenya is in East Africa and it's right under the horn of Africa. So under Somalia and above Tanzania. And we have the Indian Ocean to our east. So, if you're closer to the coast it's much hotter. It's just hot at the coast, especially in January. Mm-hm. and we're right on the equator. The country is actually almost split in half by the line, equator line and if you live up in the highlands, like I do, which is on the slopes of Mount Kenya, the temperature doesn't vary much, so it will only be a few degrees celsius different from morning to evening. Mm-hm. And so you can wear a sweater or not, if you want, or not. Mm-hm. And it's, it's beautiful. You should check out the Kenyan government website for more information. [LAUGH] Lots of Lions and. People in different continents on the globe have different color skin, and that is caused by the different amounts of melanin that they have deposited by melanocytes into the, the skin itself. so give us some, some idea, you know in Kenya, are most people, do they have dark skin? Do they have light skin? I would say most people have dark skin. because I guess its, is it a sliding scale? What's, what's dark skin and what's not dark skin? For most people would probably be on the end where your skin is considered dark. Mm hm. I had, the advantage or disadvantage of going to a s-, an international school when I was younger. And so, there were a lot of Europeans, or people who were both European and African descent. And so I don't know when I first realized the difference. I don't remember, except maybe when I came here and the absolute opposite was happening where I was suddenly the minority whereas where I grew up people with lighter skin pigmentation were the minority. And so, I don't know, I think that was my first time to actually realize, is when I moved here in 2008 that oh my goodness, this plane is full of people who do not look like me. Skin color is such an easy trait for people to latch on to. You know, they associate lots of other things with it. historically, I think this has always been true. Do you think that in general and you can speak from your perspective growing up in Kenya. Or even from your experience in San Francisco. Do you think you know, your generation or the current generation's perspective on skin color is different from past generations in a, in a, in a better or a worse way? I think it's, I think it's better, but it's also very complicated because there's that sort of love hate relationship that comes with a country or a people who've been enslaved or colonized. Where you end up either identifying because you identify, you connect those two traits, you connect the wealth and the success to the skin pigmentation. And so I hope to think that in a reverse situation, where skin pigmentation someone with darker skin pigmentation had colonized a country [LAUGH] that was full of Like, an African person like Chaka Zulu went to I don't know, Britain or something, and colonize them, that the opposite would happen and everybody would be outside trying to tan. And I know, [LAUGH] I don't know if that would happen. But you know I'd like to think that that's how this is broken down. It's not because one is better or worse than the other. It's just historically there has been a correlation or a connection between these two. And so people have tend to identify one with success and one with failure. It just so happens that that's how it went down at this period in history. I really like that thought experiment. That's a really good thought experiment to do. Right. Do you think of skin color, skin pigmentation, as a positive or a negative trait in any way? I think skin color can have positives. I don't think of it is negative or positive specifically. Mm hm. But I do know that, when I go out in the sun. I have the advantage of not burning. Or, I know that I'm less likely to get skin cancer than someone with lighter skin pigmentation. Mm hm. But on the other side, I do know that. It, you do need the sun in order for your body to produce vitamin D. mm. And in that case, if you have a higher, skin you be, have darker skin pigmentation then, your less, you're more likely to not have the ability to produce enough Vitamin D. Right, exactly. And I know that there's some people who actually have to take Vitamin D supplements, or they actually have to be told to go out into the sun more to get enough sunlight, so that they can make enough Vitamin D. A lot of people think differently about skin color. Some people, it's a big deal other people it's not a big deal. If you could give advice, or just say anything speaking to that idea and people about whether or not skin color is a big deal or not. what would you say, or what advice would you give? I think the advice I'd give is that it shouldn't matter. It would be naive of me to say that you should ignore it because others are not ignoring it. And so you should be aware of how others will treat you. But all in all it doesn't, it shouldn't change who, it doesn't change who you are on the inside. It's a genetic trait that simply dictates what the color of your skin and so, after that It may have its biological advantages or disadvantages. But in the end, it doesn't, it doesn't, your skin color is not your ethnicity. It doesn't your race. Race is a social construct. And so, it doesn't change who you are on the inside. It really shouldn't matter. And it would be great to say that it doesn't matter but to some it does. My advice would be to be who you are. So, without more pigmentation my skin is more susceptible to skin cancer? Exactly. The practice of laying out in the sun, what some people call tanning, is actually the process of your skin getting darker. It's producing more melanin, more pigment to protect itself from actual sunlight. So, being tan is just my body protecting me from more sun? Exactly. It makes you think twice about laying out in the sun doesn't it? Yeah, it does. So are there any other ways that a mutation can be introduced? Actually, yes. There's another serious but less common exposure to X-rays. X-ray energy radiation actually causes a nick in the DNA backbone, cutting it into two pieces essentially separating a chromosome into two pieces. That sounds like really bad news, Matt. It can be. Most of the time your cells are able to immediately attach the Chromosome back together. But because it's such a big deal, your cells will try to attach it really quickly and anything it can find. Remember, there's not a lot of space in your cells and the DNA is packed really close together. This means that sometimes a chromosome piece breaks off and gets attached to a whole other chromosome, like this. So the information is still preserved, it's just rearranged onto different chromosomes. Exactly, and we call this a Translocation. But if all the information is still there, why is it a problem? Well, sometimes all the information, it turns out, is not there, but even if it is think of all the problems you could run into with rearranged information. Let's take this chromosome pair where there's one gene in orange at the end and then another chromosome pair where there's this gene in pink at the end. Now let's say there's a chromosome break in each chromosome and that happens right in the middle of the two respective genes. And just by sheer random chance. Now let's say these chromosome pieces swap to the genes lands at exactly in frame with each other's coding region. What do you think the most likely result will be? Let's assume that everything swapped in frame. I want you to select the answer that you think is best. If everything swapped in frame we would expect to get a gene that's actually a fusion of the two gene products. Making one single protein that's a fusion of pieces of both of them. We wouldn't expect to get two separate proteins. And as long as everything's in frame, we wouldn't expect to get no protein. Not only do chromosomal translocations happen, not only can you swap genetic information actual genes in frame to get fusion proteins, but there are certain kinds of translocations that are known to happen on a regular basis. A very famous one that results in something called the Philadelphia chromosome is actually chromosomal translocation between chromosomes 9 and chromosomes 22. There is a gene in chromosome 22 called BCR, and another gene on chromosome 9 called A B L or ABL. What happens is the tip of chromosome 9 here can actually break off, and this end from here down on chromosome 22 can get broken off, and these pieces get swapped. This large chunk here gets put at the end of chromosome 9. So if I highlight this here, it's now down here. And this tiny region, ABL is over here. So the gene ABL was the edge of the breaking point, and the gene BCR was the edge of the breaking point. And now the ABL and BCR genes are right here next to each other, and they produce a fusion protein called BCR-ABL. As you can imagine this fusion protein is abnormal activity, and the result is a form of blood cancer called chronic myelogenous leukemia or CML. Amazingly, there's a drug that can inhibit this unique protein and treat patients suffering from this chromosomal aberration. Scientists brought us a long ways people. This is pretty cool. Matt, can anything good come from a translocation? Well, translocations are really serious business, but there are a couple of known examples where translocations have had a net overall positive effect for humans. Well, like what? Well, let's think of our closest primate relatives. Humans are primates and our closest relatives are chimpanzees. Gorillas and Orangutans. And how many pairs of chromosomes do you think they have? Well I mean if they're our closest relatives, and we have 23, I'd assume they had 23 too, right? Well, you might think that, but you'd be wrong. We humans are the exception. We have 23 pairs of chromosomes, and they all have 24 pairs of Chromosomes. Really? They have one more than we do. Why is that? Well, take a look at this image here. Wow! It looks like our chromosome two doesn't exist for chimps. And they also have two smaller ones. That's right. They have two smaller chromosomes, whereas we have one larger chromosome. Now, if we look at the sequence information, comparing our big chromosome two to their two smaller chromosomes that we don't have. And we see exactly how their sequences line up. Perfectly beside each other, matching. It seems so crazy that that could happen and get passed down. Well, remember. It has to happen in the right cell type. So you tell me. What's the right cell type that matters most in passing DNA on to the next generation? Well, it must be the germ cells because they're the only ones that transmit chromosomes to the next generation. Exactly. Every time a cell divides, all the chromosomes line up at the center. All the duplicated chromosomes. Then they separate. They split up equally into the daughter cells. We can imagine these chromosomes being pulled apart here form the center and one piece One side going to either daughter cell. Now if something goes wrong, and one chromosome doesn't separate correctly, And so both chromatids end up going to one daughter cell. So if one side gets one more chromosome and one side gets one less chromosome, this is called Aneuploidy. Obviously this can cause major problems. But imagine what a big deal this would be if it happened in one of your germ cells. And one of your gametes ended up with more or less chromosomes. So that when it fertilized an opposite sex gamete, you produced a whole offspring, a whole child, another human. With one more or less chromosome. So let's make sure you're where I want you to be with information about chromosomes. Tell me which of the following are examples of aneuploidy. 46 chromosomes total, 47 chromosomes total, 3 of chromosome 21. 45 chromosomes total, 1 X chromosome and no Y. 47 chromosomes total, 2 x chromosomes, and 1 y. Go ahead and pick any and all answers that you think apply. All of these examples, except the first one, would represent aneuploidy. The first one is exactly how many chromosomes we have in our cells normally, 46. All the other ones have one more or less chromosome. It doesn't matter whether it's an autosome or a sex chromosome, or the combination. Three of chromosome 21 is referred to as Down's Syndrome or trisomy 21. 45 chromosomes total, just one X and no Y, X 0, is called Turner syndrome. And 47 chromosomes, we have two Xs and one Y, is called Klinefelter syndrome. So Trisomy 21 or having three copies of chromosome 21, is an example of aneuploidy, where we gained a chromosome and this is referred to clinically as Down's Syndrome. It's a disorder which results in a delay of cognitive development, physical growth as well a particular set of facial features. Now monosomy X or XO, is an example of aneuploidy from having lost a chromosome. We only have one X chromosome and no Y chromosome or no other X chromosome. And this is referred to as Turner's Syndrome, a disorder with physical and hormonal abnormalities that result in infertility. In general, aneuploidy has largely negative effects. In fact, I haven't been able to come up with one example where aneuploidy has an overall net positive effect. Now for you advanced learners out there, aneuploidy and polyploidy aren't the same thing and there are net positive effects to polyploidy. But if you can come up with a good positive example, a net positive example for aneuploidy, I would love it if you go to the forums and post it. I think we'd all like to see what a good example of that would be. There are so many mutations and so many causes for mutations it's crazy. it's true, and we haven't even had time to cover sequence inversions, jumping genes. Or cosmic rays and how other chemicals cause mutations too. Why don't we just stick to what happens to the mutations when we have them and why is it that some mutations get passed down but others don't? Well, let's think about this in a large population. There are many mutations or alleles that can persist. But the only way they can persist over time is if they get passed down from generation to generation. So reproduction is a selection point? Exactly. It all hinges on reproduction. If you can't make it to reproductive age, then those alleles or mutations aren't going to get passed down. So, I've heard this term a lot and I'm sure you have too, but it reminds me of survival of the fittest. I have heard survival of the fittest is actually a misnomer in biology. It's one of the most talked about myths. So well, what's inaccurate about it? Well, I would you to figure this out. Take this scenario, let's imagine we have a group of about five people out camping together. Each with different alleles that affect their leg muscles strength and ability to run. And suddenly, a hungry bear attacks the camp to eat one of the campers and they scatter. You tell me, how fast do you have to run to survive? Well I mean I hope you run faster than the bear at least. Well I hope so too, but to survive you only have to run faster than the slowest person there. The slowest person is the one that's going to get caught and eaten, and everyone else is going to survive. So you don't have to be the fastest person in the group. Right. Directed selection is not about survival of the fittest, but survival of the fit enough. So the mutations that cause you to run faster aren't necessarily trying to make you the fastest person, just not the slowest. Exactly. Once a mutation has been passed on then it can spread in the population. So from our campsite example of the bear, once you survive and once you produce, more importantly. That allele, that mutation can get passed on to the next generation. And the more kids you have the more you can change the population frequency. So let's focus on this one particular metric. Allele frequency. We need some alleles to focus on, so let's go back to our trusty lactase persistence alleles. We've learned that there's a lactase persistence allele that's dominate. Plus here, and a lactase non-persistence allele that's recessive here, minus. Now let's say I have a thousand people. 500 are homozygous dominant, 350 are heterozygous, and 150 are homozygous recessive. I want you to tell me how many total alleles there are in the population of a thousand people. Go ahead and enter your answer as a number in the box here. Okay, if I have 1000 people total and everybody has two alleles each, that's 1000 people times 2 which would be 2000 alleles. So for 1000 people with two alleles each, we have a total of 2000 alleles in our population. Now if we measure the allele frequency as the number of the specific allele we are interested in, divided by the total number of alleles in our population. Then what are the frequencies of each of the lactase persistent and non-persistent alleles, the plus and the minus? I want you to calculate their frequencies and put them in each box, respectively. A fraction or decimal response will work just fine. So, the answer to this question is 0.675 or 1350 divided by 2,000. And 0.325 or 650 divided by 2,000. Now hopefully, you noticed a nice pattern here is that the frequencies for these two alleles should add up to one always. No matter how many alleles we have, when we calculate the allele frequency, they should all add back up to one. Now, how do we get this answer? Well, we see here that we have 500 po, plus alleles, and we have another 500 alleles in that same homozygous group, right? 500 people that are homozygous dominant are actually 1,000 alleles of the dominant allele. Then we have 350 heterozygous individuals, 350 more dominant alleles. So that equals 1,350 total. 1,350 divided by 2,000 gives us 0.675. The recessive allele would be 150 and another 150 because of the homozyous condition, right? And then 350 in the heterozygous condition. So this is a total of 650 recessive alleles. And we divide it by 2,000 to get 0.325 for the allele frequency of the recessive allele. So we just calculated the allelic frequencies up here for the dominant recessive alleles, but what about the trait itself? How frequent is the trait of lactose intolerance in our population? Well, about their homozygous dominant and our heterozygous condition, they're going to be lactase persistent. And our homozygous recessive condition is going to be lactase non-persistent. This is the group that's going to be lactose intolerant. So, if we calculate the frequency of lactase persistence in my population, and we've got 500 plus 350 is 850 total people out of 1,000. That's 0.85. Well, look at that! The frequency of the dominant allele is 0.675. The frequency of the dominant trait is 0.85. They're not the same. This is really important, the allelic frequency and the trait frequency don't have to match. Take this given scenario right here. We have a population of 1000 people, remember that means we have 2000 alleles total. And when we calculate our allelic frequency, we find that the dominant allele for lactase persistence is prevalent at a 0.75 frequency. The recessive allele is prevalent at at 0.25 frequency. When we look at the actual trait frequency, lactase persistence comes in at 1.0, 100%. But lactatse nonpersistent. The tray to lactose intolerance is 0, 0%. Now, if these things are true, then I want you to enter a possible number of people for each genotype here. Remember, you have 100 people to choose from, so whatever your numbers you put in these boxes, it should add up to a 1000. Based on the allelic and the trait frequencies that you see here, I want you to enter in any possible number of people that could be each genotype. Go ahead, give it a try. If you get stuck, try checking out the forums to see if anyone has some helpful advice. Okay. This problem can be a little tricky if you're not used to figuring questions like this out, backwards. But this is the best way to learn. Instead of giving you all the numbers and have you plug them into equations, it's better to have you work backwards like this. 'because you really get to see the patterns that emerge. So let's take the easy part first. We know that if we have no lactase non-persistent, no lactose intolerant people, zero, 0%. That represents our homozygous recessive condition. So we gotta have zero in that group. There are no people in our population that have that genotype. Okay, so now that means we gotta split 1000 people between these two genotypes, homozygous dominant and heterozygous. The only scenario I can calculate that gives me this particular allelic frequency is 500 in each group. So remember both of these are lactase persistent, so together that's everybody 100% are lactase persistence. But we need a number to get our allelic frequencies to 0.75 for the dominant allele. And 0.25 for the recessive allele, so if we go to our equation here and set it up toward backwards. 0.75 equals, we have the total number of alleles, so how many total dominant alleles are we dealing with here? This would be X equals 1500. We've got to have 1500 dominant alleles in here. We do the same thing with the recessive allele, we gotta have 500. Well, if we have to have 500 recessive alleles. The only way I'm going to get 500, is in this heterozygous condition. 'because I don't have any homozygous recessive. So that means, to get 500 recessive alleles, I've gotta have 500 heterozygous individuals so that I get 500 of these. 500 heterozygous individuals then makes up 500 of my dominants, as well. I need 1,500 total. So subtract 500 from 1,500. I need 1,000 more alleles. 500 in this box takes care of 1,000, right? Because I get 500 of both. 500 of the first dominant and 500 of the second dominant. Easy, huh? Or hard, depending on your perspective. I really hope you understand this. If you don't, if you have trouble, it's okay. There's not a lot of this course that's going to deal with too much allelic frequencies. But I do want to focus on it a bit more for the rest of the lesson. If you can really get a grasp of these allelic frequencies, you're going to have a whole new appreciation for understanding gene flow, genetic drift, and looking at huge populations of individuals. And seeing how alleles travel through. And can be shaped by evolution. So just because a trait has a frequency of zero, meaning it's not seen at all. Doesn't mean that, that allele isn't still in the gene pool just floating around. Exactly and this brings us back to the concept of genetic diversity. Remember from our pedigrees we learned that it's not a good idea to keep genes within a family tree. Because those recessive genes that cause recessive traits, right, they need other recessive genes to make those recessive traits show up. And that's going to happen when the gene pool stays small. That's why you need to reproduce with somebody outside of your immediate family tree to have more options of genes. Exactly, and random mating and human travel around the world does a pretty good job at mixing and matching these various alleles. Every once in a while a selection happens and survival of the fit enough cuts out some of the weaker alleles. This definitely happens, but there's a lot of allele frequency changes from random selection events, too. take these flies buzzing around as a good example. [Splats] case in point. before Lauren swatted the flies, the was roughly 50% of one color versus another color. But her hand indiscriminately killed a lot of the bugs and now what's left over is 25% of one color and 75% of another. Oops. It's okay. But this is a great example of how it was a completely random event. The color of the bug had no bearing on whether or not the bug died. She just indiscriminately smacked. So the change in frequency is a result of random selection. Matt, what are you doing? Crafts? no, I'm actually working on a demonstration for random selection. I have selected some beads to represent the people. And I have three different colors. Red, white and blue representing a single trait. But I have three different versions: the red, white and blue version. But why did you put them in the bottle? Well, the bottle is representative of the whole population of people living in a region, for example. We have roughly equal frequencies of all the colors in our population, though there's a slight increase in the number of red individuals living at this sort of top of the bottle. Now, for this representative of random selection, we need an event to happen that's completely random. How about a meteor? A meteor, that sounds great. So a meteor strike is coming to earth, and it comes in this region and. Now notice what happened, is all these people, oops a couple are still trying to survive there. Everybody that survived ran away and got away from the meteor. And those that weren't able to run fast enough stayed in the bottle, and unfortunately they didn't survive. And so, the people who survive were able to run away due to the glass dish, and those that couldn't, still here in the, in the bottle. Unfortunately these didn't survive. And what I want you to notice, if we see here, is that, tell me the frequency difference between the individuals in the bottle and those in the glass dish. Well, it looks like most of the red survived, but not as many blue and white beads did. Exactly, and that's because there was a change in the allelic frequency due to a random selection event. Oh, the bottleneck effect. Exactly. You can see here we represented that quite literally. And so, those in the bottle didn't survive, we changed the allelic frequency. More red in the dish, those that survive. And now we have a change that resulted from a completely random event. Okay, I think we're ready to really test your knowledge of what we learned in this lesson. There are a lot of really awesome concepts that we've learned really in all the lessons up to this point. And we can start building an entire framework around how to understand particular traits. Let's use an example that combines the concepts of mutation selection and allelic frequency. The CCR5 gene is located on human chromosome three and it produces a protein, the CCR5 protein, that you can see here in green. And it resides on the surface of T-cells. T-cells are immune cells that fight infection. Now, although T-cells do a pretty good job at fighting infection, in fact they do an amazing job really. There's a virus out there that can really take them out. It's called HIV, or the Human Immuno-deficiency virus. You might have heard of it before. The HIV virus binds really well to this protein called CCR5. And when it does, the whole complex gets internalized. And this is how HIV gets inside T-cells. It hijacks this protein and uses it to get inside the T-cell, infect it. And then infect the entire immune system. So if you have a normally functioning CCR5 allele, then you're at risk for HIV infection. However, there's an allele of CCR5 that creates a very dysfunctional version of the protein, rendering it pretty much non-functional, and it can't even get to the cell surface of T-cells. Without that CCR5 protein, the HIV simply can't get in the T-cells. The T-cells are thus resistant to HIV infection. So here's your first question using this example. Is the mutation for the dysfunctional protein that makes the T-cell HIV resistant more likely in the coding or non-coding DNA of the genome? I want you to check one of these boxes and then explain why you think that's the answer in this text box here. I want you to save your answer, because guess what, you're going to need it in the next video. Now the answer I was looking for in this question, is that it would be most likely mutation in the coding region, not the non-coding region. There were several levels by which you could have addressed the y part of the question. And I've come up with three different answers, an OK, a better and a best answer to the y question. I'm going to read these and I want you to evaluate your own answer against these possible answers. An OK answer would have been that the coding region mutations change proteins. Okay. Sure. So what? A better answer would have said that coding region mutations alter amino acid sequence and thus protein function. Gives me some idea that, you understand the full impact of the mutation. But it doesn't really juxtapose the notion of what a coding region mutation does and why a non-coding mutation wouldn't better describe this. So the best answer would be that a coding region mutation is more likely to alter amino acid sequence. And thus the function of the protein compared to a non-coding mutation, which is more likely to affect the expression of a functioning and intact protein. Go ahead and rank your answer somewhere on the spectrum here, from OK to better to best. And you can pick check boxes in between. Go ahead, tell me how you think you did. Normally the CCR5 gene product, the CCR5 protein is 352 amino acids long. The mutated allele of CCR5 that converts HIV resistance is called CCR5 delta 32. It's a much shorter protein, and there are many altered amino acids. It's rendered virtually non-functional. So here's your second question about the CCR5 example. Is the CCR5 delta 32 mutation most likely characterized as a silent, missense, nonsense or frameshift mutation? I want you to pick one and explain to me why you picked it in this text box here. So a frameshift mutation is the most likely way to explain this kind of change in the protein product. And it's frameshift because it's the only one that explains both the shortened nature of the protein and the many altered amino acids. Because we learned earlier that frameshifts are going to change a lot of amino acids at once, or at least more than one, and they likely introduced premature stop codons. Now a silent mutation can't be right because that means that nothing changed. A missense mutation isn't enough because that would only change one amino acid. A nonsense mutation would be the closest to getting this right compared to a frameshift, but that only explains the short nature not the many altered amino acids part. Only frameshift really takes care of satisfying both of these qualities. Sort of a quick way of knowing that this is a frameshift is that the delta symbol means deletion. And a deletion of 32 base pairs is not a multiple of three, and you remember that if we have additions or deletions that are not multiples of threes then we end up with a frameshift. So the CCR5 delta 32 allele is a Frameshift mutation that causes a severely shortened CCR5 protein, so dysfunctional that it doesn't even make it to the surface of T cells and it's not available for HIV to latch onto and enter in. Thus it makes these cells resistant to HIV infection compared to the normal functioning allele. So here's your third question about this scenario. Which of these two alleles is dominant? Is it the normal CCR5 allele or the CCR5 delta 32 with the Frameshift mutation? I want you to select the correct answer and then justify it in the text box here. Okay, the correct answer here is the normal CCR5 allele is dominant. Because all you need is one allele to produce normal CCR5 protein that can reside on the surface of T cells and allow HIV infection. Thus masking the effect of this CCR5 delta 32 allele. So, if we used the symbols we've used all throughout the course up until this point to represent dominate and recessive, the regular CCR5 allele would be dominant, or the plus symbol. And the CCR5 delta 32 would be recessive, or the minus symbol. And the reason is because the dominant CCR5 allele masks the effect of the recessive CCR5 delta 32 allele. As long as you have one of these dominant alleles here, then HIV is going to be able to latch on and infect the T-cell. You must be homozygous recessive before you have no protein available on the surface of T-cells for HIV to latch onto and affect. So we're not through with the amazing story of the CCR5 delta 32 allele yet. Another really interesting fact about it, is now it's believed that the CCR5 delta 32 recessive allele also conferred resistance to the Bubonic plague during the pandemic known as The Black Death which struck Europe in 1347 and killed 1 3rd of the world's population. So people with two copies of CCR5 delta 32 allele had a higher survival rate. And today the highest frequency of this allele is in northern Europe. So your fourth question in this saga of CCR5, is this selection pressure, for it to be in northern Europe, is this an example of natural selection or random selection? I want you to pick one and then justify your answer in the text box here. So this example is best characterized as natural selection not random selection. And the reasoning is that this particular allele faced direct selection pressure during the Bubonic plague to be at higher frequencies today in Northern Europe. This wasn't a random event like a meteor striking or a zombie attack where the allele. And its frequency change had nothing to do with the events surrounding it. This allele protected people from the Bubonic plague, so those with this allele survived to pass that allele on. It was selected for through a process of directed natural selection. Now I hope you actually spend some time trying to justify your answer. I've come up with four different levels of poor to okay, to better, to best. Answers here that you can evaluate yourself with. I want you to read each one, and compare it to the answer you put. See how it measures up to your explanation. Then I want you to tick the box that represents where you think your answer best fits. You could be right on par with one of my answers or in between them. Go ahead and evaluate yourself! I want to know how you think you did. If you have any questions or if you want to see what other people are thinking. You should definitely check out the forums right now because I imagine there is some commentary on this. I'm Uta Francke, I'm a human geneticist originally from Germany, as you can hear. And I'm an Emeritus Professor here at Stanford and also senior medical director at 23andMe. So when people talk about variation in the human genome, we oftentimes. Mm-hm. Talk about single nucleotide variance, which we'll come to in, in later lessons for, for our course. is that the main kind of variation that exists in the human genome, are these single letter differences? Or are there other kinds of variation that are important too? We have identified about 15 million single additive differences. So by sheer number, they're the most common. But then there are other variants there called copy number variations. But whole chunks of the genome can be repeated, and they can be present in these, two or three or many copies. And there are differences between human beings, well some people have two copies, some have five, some may have 12. And if you look at the total number of nucleoids [INAUDIBLE] than those, then this is more common. So the individual copy number variance, or CNVs, are fewer than the ones that we have identified for SNVs. But, if you look at the amount of genomic sequence, and what, in this type of, what's called structural variation, it involves the larger part of a genome. I see, so, between single nucleotide variance and copy number variation those are the two main kinds, or, the two main forms of variation in humans. Yeah, then there are others, like inversions, where certain pieces of the genome can be turned around in some people, and not in others. And even, translocations? How viable are translocations, and do they get propagated at all in a population over time, or most translocations inviable? Well we find them in families, you know, there are balanced translocations where a piece of a chromosome is taken off and hooked somewhere else, or two pieces have been exchanged. And as long as they are balanced, meaning that the right number of genes is there, people are fine. They would know about it. Unless a break is in a gene, but that's pretty unusual. A break is most often in a repetitive sequence. But then, when these people may have children, because of what happens in meiosis, that the chromosomes align and cross over. It's possible that a child inherits a chromosome that only has an extra copy and is then, gets the other one that's missing something. Then you have an unbalanced translocation and that can cause very bad developmental defects intellectual deficits. These are the children who we see in the clinic and we look at their chromosomes. And look at their parents and we see that translocation has been passed on to several generations already. But otherwise, they don't last in, in populations. Alright kids, it's time for you to prove to me you have not been sleeping on me this lesson, that you've been paying attention. Here's the concept map. I want you to use the word bank up here and try to fill in all the blanks that you see. Okay. Let's see how you did. Let's start here in the center with mutations. The subject of lesson six. There are five main types. There are duplications, deletions. There are insertions. There are SNVs and there are chromosomal translocations. Now, I knew to put them in this order, not because they were the right size for the boxes. But because of the arrows pointing to them from down here. We know the mutations can be either spontaneous or induced. And the spontaneous mutations are from things like replication errors which are causes of duplications, insertions, deletions and single nucleotide variations or SNVs. Induced mutations are from things like x-rays and UV rays. UV rays can typically cause SNVs whereas x-rays cause double stranded DNA breaks and eventually chromosomal translocations. Mutations themselves are just changes in the non-coding DNA or the coding DNA. For refreshers on these topics you can review concepts of coding DNA in lesson three and non-coding DNA in lesson four. Mutations in the coding region of DNA can lead to four different kinds of mutations. Silent mutations which don't change the amino acids. Missense mutations which change the amino acid. Nonsense mutations which change an amino acid to a stop codon. Or frameshift mutations which completely throw off the entire reading frame of a ribosome so that you change many amino acids. Now germ cells also undergo miosis which we learned about in the last lesson. And an abnormal division at miosis can cause aneuploidy, which is the addition or loss of chromosomes. And again, you learned about chromosomes in lesson two. Now, the mutations in germ cells are the major source for new alleles in the following generations. We've learned about alleles in lessons three, four and really five as well. And alleles cause traits which we've sort of generally talked about in lesson one and more specifically in lesson five. But alleles and traits have changes in population frequencies due to natural selection and random selection. Hopefully this concept map helps organize your thoughts on the lesson so keep it handy because you might want to come back to it as we keep moving along in the course. You've made it to the end of another lesson, and we've had a lot of new material here. So let's try to summarize all of what we've learned into six main points. Point one, mutations in either the coding or non-coding region of our genome can be classified as either SNVs, insertions, deletions, duplications or even chromosomal translocations. Point two, mutations in the coding regions of genes can be classified as either silent, missense, nonsense or frameshift mutations. Point three, sources for mutations include: spontaneous errors during DNA replication or induced mutations from UV rays from the suns, or X-ray energy. Point four, mutations that occur in germ cells are the mutations that get passed down to the next generation. And aneuploidy describes problems in cell division that result in additional or missing chromosomes. Point five, both allelic and phenotypic frequencies aren't the same in a population typically. And point six, both random and natural selection can change the phenotypic and allelic frequencies in any given population. Matt I'm really sorry I tried to mutate your genome. It's okay. I understand but now you know the power mutation has to shape traits and drive evolution. I do. But you know what, to be honest I'm kind of jealous. You have your own genome book when do I get mine? Well how about we do that now. Okay. In the next lesson we're going to learn how you can obtain your own personal genetic information and interpret it. Okay, and I promise not to bring any more radiative ooze. Well, at least there wasn't any damage done. How would you like to know if you're a carrier for an inherited genetic disorder? Or would you like to know if certain prescription medications may have negative side effects that are specific to you. Or maybe you just like to know more information about your family relations and ancestry. Or would you like to know if you're at an increased chance of having negative health consequences later in life? There are so many reasons why you might want to unlock the secrets of your genome. And you don't even have to be rich or famous to find out. And now we're not talking about sequencing a genome. Right, sequencing would require a lot more effort. What we're going to talk about in this lesson is looking at about a million different positions in the genome that vary between individual people. The SNVs which we learned about in the last lesson. Right, the single nucleotide variant. Or the single letter changes. That's right. In this lesson, we're going to learn how to unlock the secrets of your genome. But first, what we want to know from you is, do you even want to have your genome's information in the first place? Check it out, kids. Here's the Concept Map for Lesson 7. And notice that it makes connections to all the other lessons in the course. Print it out or keep it handy and see if you can figure out what belongs in the blanks. At the end of the lesson you can test how well you're paying attention. As always, a complete version of the map can be found at the very end. If you've ever been interested in getting your own personal genetic information and done any searching online, then you've probably come across a company called 23andMe. And in this lesson, we're fortunate enough to have a co-instructor, a representative from 23andMe join us, Joanna Mountain. Thank you, Matt. I'm excited to be here. It's great to have you. Now, can you tell us a little bit more about 23andMe and, and what you do there. as a geneticist at 23andMe, I'm involved in the research, where we try to link the DNA with particular traits and diseases. We also I've been involved in developing the tools and the features that help people understand their health and their ancestry through their DNA. Now when was 23andMe actually started or founded? Yeah, the company was founded in 2006, and we launched the service in 2007, the year I joined. and that was the first time it was possible for people to really explore this hidden dimension of themselves. Something that was, was hidden from everybody And it was a brand new opportunity for people to learn about themselves through looking at their DNA. And this sounds like a pretty exciting revelation for most people. Is this something that's available and accessible to everyone? anybody who has internet access can sign up and start exploring their DNA. And the cool thing is, I remember the first time I went snorkeling, and I. It was just mind blowing to me, be able to, you know, discover a whole new world within the ocean. And to me DNA, to be able to explore your DNA is similar. You just, it opens up a whole new world of, of things to learn. And it's, it's a very personal world, it's, it's you. And that's this is something that's was not available 10 years ago. Well, I think I know just the group of people who might be interested in learning a little bit more about their genetics. So let's go chat with them. Great. Let's go! What I'd like to try, is for you guys to tell me individually, what's more important to you to find out from your genome? Would you be more interested in the ancestry information, or the health information that it could give you. Ginny, why don't you tell us, is there, is the one, more than the other? Because Achondroplasia comes with the myriad of medical complications, I would be more interested in the medical Okay. Kagure? I think it's medical. I give medical maybe 60 per, 50, 80% and ancestry 20. Okay. I think it's medical, but it's really tough, because I am also very curious about the ancestry. Particularly, particularly being Jewish, and not being able to go back that far with the relatives who came from Eastern Europe. Not being able to know who these people were. Is, you know, kind of, if we could find something out, that would be great. For me, the ancestry is my, you know, the first thing that makes me want to, the first kind of information I want, and then the medical would be something I would keep checking long term. I guess mine would, would be the ancestry although the medical is, is also important to me, but definitely the ancestry. That means the information can actually change anything, or is it just going to inform you? I definitely think it has the potential to change quite a bit. I mean reconnecting with my biological parents is such an experience, that I think even though I have my real parents now that will always provide the support regardless of me finding my biological parents. I think having that connection, that new individual in my life, will have a profound impact on me, as well as the medical information, like it has the potential to have a profound impact. What about you, Ryan? You think it would change how you act, how you behave? I don't think so. I think for me, it's more of just learning about me and my personal, you know, my personal genetics and also my ancestry. It's just more of a, you know, it's a curiosity thing. Carol? Anxiety. [LAUGH] Causing more anxiety or less anxiety? Causing more anxiety! Not, of not knowing what's ahead. Of course, we don't know anyway, but when there's some prediction that there's a possibility. And understanding statistics and percentages, of possibilities that creates some anxiety. but I can convince myself, that it's good to know and take action. Mm-hm. So I'm pragmatic, but at the same time, it does produce a certain amount of anxiety for me. Jenny? I'm thinking about this question from the perspective of my average size parents, and then 30 years later from me, when I was expecting a child. And so they're two different things. I'm a mutation, so I came out of, from nowhere, you know, unexpectedly with my parents. when they found out, when the diagnosis was confirmed, I was 18 months old. And that allowed them, to just get right on track with Little People of America, the national support group finding the top orthopedic surgeons in the area. That sort of thing. So I think that it was really helpful for them. Of course I don't remember that, I was 18 months old. as far as, you know, when I was pregnant again, it goes back to knowing ahead of time what, what was inside of me, and what we had to prepare for was, was monumental. Mm-hm. What about your past? What about your ancestry information are you, are you most intrigued by, are you most interested in finding something out about? Hm, Ryan? I think for me, it's just to see know what different cultures or what different ethnic groups I spring from, because the Philippines have been conquered by Spain, and Spain ruled there for Four hundred years, and then the Japanese invaded for a while, and then we were also part of the United States for a while, and so just finding out what different ethnic groups, what kind of, what kind of genetics I have, in terms of where does my gene pool come from. Mm-hm. It's really, that's kind of in terms of the past for me and so. The neanderthal thing is pretty cool too. Just kind of a interesting fact [LAUGH]. It's not going to, it's not going to change [CROSSTALK] your, your identity at all? No, it's just kind of of a thing, I just like, you know, any, if I knew anyone who has it, oh, what's your percentage of neanderthal? [LAUGH]. [CROSSTALK]. Okay. Cock, cocktail party conversation. [LAUGH]. Does it change your identity at all? If you find this information Oh, I am going to kagure and lets say you mentioned that you know your mother is lighter skinned and may be is a European and you know and my background is somewhere, does that change any thing for how do you think about yourself your family and, and how does it impact that you are most interested in finding out about. I think the change is what I think about my family historically, in terms of what happened at the time in the country, and where my ancestors were in order to interact with people from another continent. I don't think it changes how I think about my grandmother, or each one of them as individuals. It just helps me build a story as to where my people came from and that's what I would be most interested in. So it's a more like sort of completing a patchwork of, you know, your past and. I, yes but, I mean, I could make it up but it's [LAUGH]. [LAUGH]. And I'd be very happy with that because clearly it's not something that will change how I live my life. Mm-hm. It's more about The curiosity behind knowing where I came from with almost, with more certainty than my made-up story in my head. Sure. [CROSSTALK] [NOISE] So. What about you, Sterling? Someone who, you know, it doesn't, isn't familiar with their specific biological background? I think for the, the deep historical part, the ancestry its more of a curiosity I mean I can hypothesize you know, that I'm probably from some mass up of European countries but it'll be interesting to know like if there's specific ones that. More of my Genetics the great percentage of my Genetics comes from So, that's start more a curiosity but obliviously the biological relatives will have the more of an impact and probably change, could change a few things in my life. There's a lot of things that we can tell you that we can't do anything about. For example, we can tell you, you have a susceptibility for breast cancer. But, can't tell you if you're going to get it. We could tell you, per chance, that you have a genetic predisposition for Huntington's Disease. And can't really do much about that either. Would you want to know if you had a genetic disorder that is incurable or would you rather not know. The 23andMe website to find out certain information you have to opt in, you have to do like a double opt in and they kind of go, are you sure want to know eh where do you guys follow on these categories and Ginny, I'll start with you. I mean you sort of mentioned the hazards previously, I mean, do you want to know if you have an incurable disease or disorder. There's a lot of cancer in my family and because of that I, I assume that there's a greater chance of me having cancer. And I guess, guess I would want to know if it were a lethal situation. I would want to know, not only to advocate and, and, and prepare but to also prepare for death, and my children. And, and everything that comes with that. I think that if I could take an action, I'd want to know. But I wouldn't want to know that when I left the house. Today, that I was, a car was going to cross the median line and hit me head on and maybe I wouldn't leave the house, maybe that's something I could [LAUGH]. It's one of those, sort of, paradoxes. Right, for my genetic situation, I can do something with that. So I do, I was happy to know. And in your case what, what did you do? Well for me finding out that I had the BRCA2 mutation I immediately contacted the breast oncologist to refer me to a genetic counselor. The test was from 23andMe, and they verified the test with another lab, just to be sure. And it was confirmed. And the recommendation was to have an Oophorectomy. That's when they remove your ovaries, right? That's when they remove your ovaries. And there's not that great a risk for ovarian cancer but it's significant, and I did that. And the other recommendation is to, see the breast oncologist twice a year for breast exam and to also have a breast MRI and a mammogram. Once a year, and so, I'm taking that action, and I'm hoping that at my age of 70, that I can beat it. Is there anything about your genetic code that would ever make you change your mind or change reproductive decisions for yourself in any way? Well in the Jewish community, Tay-Sachs, is an issue. I don't know how many people are aware of that. But. Just really quick, can you tell us what Tay-Sachs is? Tay-Sachs is in the same family as Gaucher's disease, which is one of the diseases that I have, it's a lipid storage disease. And in Tay-Sachs babies, the lipid accumulates in the brain, and the baby dies within a short period of time. And they, under two years old, usually, typically. And there is no treatment, and it's pretty much erradicated, because either people don't marry who are pre-tested before, I'm talking about the orthadox Jewish community, where people are tested beore marriage. And they wouldn't have an abortion, so it prevents two people who carry that mutation from getting married and having a child who would die in a. Which is interesting because in my community we, we come into the union knowing full well what our options are and many still go through with it. You know, this is interesting because, so, Tay-Sachs is a recessive trait. Right. Right. And Achondroplasia is a dominant trait, which means that in the Tay Sachs world having, being a carrier means you're not affected. whereas in the case of Achondroplasia, if you're a carrier it means you are affected, you're affected as a carrier. so, I, I'm interested to hear these sort of slightly different perspectives here, on the ability to sort of think and, and plan. Well, with a Tay-Sachs baby, the baby is going to die. I mean that's, that's the story today. I don't know if that will be the case in the future. I never knew that I was a Tay-Sachs carrier until now, and I'm not having any more children, and it my husband would have to be a carrier as well. but there are people in the Jewish community who would test. Maybe at a later weeks, I don't know what the right time and it is to test Uh-huh. For any genetic diseases or any situations and I guess its a decision at that time of what to do. I think I am, I just based on the information I already have. Nothing would affect, it's kind of a, at this point because of the results that I have from 23 and me, nothing would really impact my decision to have children. It's more of a, my wife works in biology, and it's really fun doing the Punnett squares [LAUGH] between our possibilities of what kids are. Fun for her, I think. [LAUGH] But, so, yeah, I think you know I can't speak for, if something were there, I don't know what I would do, that's kind of one of those things that I think you have to cross that bridge When you get there. When you get there, and it is impossible to predict what I might, what how different, if things have been different. I don't know how it would have affected anything. I'm excited. Let's get some DNA out of this guy. Well hold on Lauren before we actually get DNA from Matt, we need to take a couple of other steps. And the key thing is before we proceed and get DNA from Matt, he needs to make sure he's comfortable with how his DNA and genetic information will be used by 23andMe. So you can read the terms of service, and understand how that information will be used, and make that decision on his own. Well, this sounds like I also probably at some point need to provide some consent for other services as well. Well, that's true because in all research, a really important component is informed consent, where the person who's involved in it understands the risks and benefits of participation. So yes, Matt you like all 23andMe customers, will get to choose whether you want to take part in research, and have your genetic information be used for research, and your other personal information. And so you get to decide whether you're going to consent use of your information Well I know that informed consent is a very important aspect of medicine and research today. So, if you're interested in learning more about it. You can visit the American Medical Association and search for Informed Consent. Did you bring the needle? I'm excited. You're got to give us DNA. Well, we may not actually need a needle, because we first have to figure out which cell type is going to be most valuable for getting the genomic information from that. Well, let's say we can choose from any cell type in the body no matter how difficult it is to obtain. Genetically speaking, which cell type of the following would be the least likely that we'd want to choose to obtain information about my whole genome? Okay. The answer is the sex cells, because those cells only have half of a person's genomic information. And in addition, because of recombination that information is in a different order from the DNA in the rest of the cells. And so, we choose to use DNA from other cell types, if we want to really get Matt's full genomic information. Hi. I'm Brian Naughton. I'm Founding Scientist at 23andMe. I'm from Dublin, Ireland. So after dropping the DNA sample in the mail, we don't see anything until we get to our results. what happens to that sample once we drop it in the mail? Where does it go? Where does it end up So your sample actually gets shipped to our lab in Los Angeles where it gets processed. there are four major components to that, it starts with DNA extraction, then amplification of the DNA, then hybridization and finally, analysis of the data to make sure it's good. Okay, great. About how long does that process take for, to do all those steps? So if you take all of the steps and you did end to end it would probably take three days or so. Mm-hm. a lot of the process is just waiting for the equipment to become available because of volume. I see. What of all those sort of four processes, which of those is the most time intensive of all of them? The most time intensive is the hybridization step, which happens overnight, amplification also happens over night though. So there are two major parts where we have to leave the DNA for a while and come back to it, so it has time to about what what I mean, I'm curious what, what's the most expensive part of the of the process? So the, the chip and the reagents are really the expensive part of the process. When you buy the chip you also get the reagents those are like the chemicals that you need to run the chip. the other expensive components are probably labor, obviously because we actually need to hire what's called high complexity staff to run our process. [UNKNOWN] staff and then the, the rest is actually fairly inexpensive. What are the are there any international restrictions? Like obviously I'm guessing if the lab time only takes you, like you said, three days, but you know longer if you're processing multiple samples you know does it take a lot longer for any international people who want to have this service done? So the lab process doesn't take longer obviously the shipping is an issue and shipping can be expensive if you're coming from Asia to California. that's part of the reason why we want to add another lab actually it's to help with that. Mm-hmm. There are also issues with exporting DNA from certain countries so China and India specifically have laws around what DNA you are allowed to export out of that country. So that, that plus other regulations regarding biological specimens mean that it's actually quite difficult to add another country to our list of countries. Tell us a little bit more about the DNA extraction step. What actually happen? You get the, the DNA or the saliva sample in the lab. What, what do you do to get the DNA out? So DNA extraction is very, you know, normal thing that happens in labs all over the world. There's nothing special about who we, how we do our DNA extraction. But the process is really. Trying to separate the DNA in the nucleus of the cell, from the proteins and other components of the cell that otherwise would be in the way. I see, and, I mean, how much DNA do you get out of the saliva sample that someone sends in? It's actually varying variable. And depending on the person, we can get anywhere from 10 micrograms to over 100 micrograms of DNA. And does most of that variation happen just based on the number of cells that were in that spit sample, or saliva sample? We'd think so, but we actually don't have very good information on that. We know that some people's saliva is more watery than other people, and we know that, for example, infants to do not often give us good data, and we think that's partially because of the wateriness of the, of that saliva. Well, for those people who might be wondering, you know, what kinds of cells do you actually getting in my spit, what, what, what are the actual cells that, You know, you're extracting DNA from, when you're looking at my saliva. So in a sense it doesn't matter in that almost all of your cells have your genome in there and it's always the same genome. So we don't look at that, too closely. We know that the major components there, are epithelial cells, so the inside of your cheek, the skin cells there. And the and white blood cells are the other major component. Now, I, I, I do floss and brush my teeth. But I know that I'm sure I have some kind of bacteria or germs in there. Even still is that a concern at all, worrying about sort of having other non me DNA in my spit sample? Again, it's not something we worry about too much. We know that people have a lot of bacteria in their mouths, and we know that from person to person there's huge variability in the composition of those bacteria. But for amplification we're happy to amplify up all of your human and bacterial DNA. And then let the sequencing or genotyping process sort out the human from the bacteria. I see. So as long as it's human it's good but does that mean like I, you know, I shouldn't go kiss anybody right before I, I, I give my DNA sample. For the 23 Me test we actually collect 2 milliliters of saliva from you which doesn't sound like a lot but it can take up to five to ten minutes to fill that. It's a lot of saliva. You would have to be kissing a lot to make a difference there. So when you finish the first step, the, the DNA extraction, you essentially have taken our sample and like you said, sort of purified the DNA, from it gotten rid of all the other stuff. The proteins, the other molecules that might be part of cells and other kinds of contaminants. And you pretty much just have a purified DNA product. Exactly. Now is, is that enough, already to do what you want to do with it? Or what do you have to do next? Not really. It's common in many situations like this to want to amplify the DNA. So you always want to give yourself the best opportunity to sequence what's in there. And the easiest way to do that is to take the DNA you've got and amplify it, or copy it, as many times as you can so that you just have enough signal that you make it easy on yourself. I see. So when you see say you, you're amplifying or you're, you're making copies, I mean, you controlling kind of how many copies you make. You just, you know, you are making like, ten more, 20 more, you know, 100 more. How does that work? Its not tightly controlled, but in essence, at the end of the process, you end up with 1000 fold enrichment of the DNA. So you really do end up with a lot more DNA. So do you end up with DNA left over? You know, after you're done with the procedure, you actually have leftover DNA for, for people? Sometimes we do. but usually we store your DNA in its in the saliva form, so that we're going back to the original copy. One issue with amplification is that every time you copy just like in DNA replication in humans, there is a possibility for error. So, those errors could compound if you keep copying the copy, just like Xeroxing a Xerox, right. Our extracted DNA sample that's been amplified, so we have enough of our sample to do something with. are we ready to go sequence it now, is that what we're going to do? So the the process that your DNA undergoes at 23Me is a little different to sequencing. It's called chip hybridization or genotyping. And so how does this differ from sequencing? What's the difference between sequencing and sort of, what you mention is sort of chip hybridization or for, for genotyping? So you can think of sequencing as just reading the genome from beginning to end almost, you want to know every single letter and what it is. With genotyping, we actually decide beforehand which parts of the genome, which letters are interesting to us. And then we specifically look at those letters, with the knowledge that these are the letters that maybe cause diseases or are associated with some, trait that you have. I see. So, so you actually have to put a lot of thought into it beforehand to sort of know exactly which positions, which bases, which letters you're interested in. How, how many letters do you actually, or how many bases do you look at in, in an individual sample? So we look at about a million, on the current 23andMe chip. that means that when you get your results back from us you can download a million different calls or base pairs from us. Sequencing sounds like it gives you a lot more information. what are the prohibitive aspects of sequencing? Why doesn't 23andMe do sequencing? Yeah, sequencing is definitely the future of this field, and we we're definitely interested in sequencing when it gets cheap enough, but the main advantage of genotyping is cost. so we know that to get the same results that we get with the 23andMe chip, we would have to charge at least ten times more with the sequencing product. Probably a lot more, I don't know. Genotyping has other advantages as well, we, because you genotype using the process of hybridization, you actually get a lot of different shots on goal if you like. You get to hybridize different molecules. many times. Mm-hm. And you get the, the sum of all of those. I see. Or the average of all those reads. So you get a lot of information compiled into one data point. With sequencing you might actually miss the part of the genome you were interested in. And that could be a problem. I see. So in, in a way you kind of have Higher confidence, even though you have maybe more limited information in the end, you have a higher confidence about the actual, you know, letter or base result for that position. Exactly, and some people describe genotyping as almost like single base sequencing, where we're seq, we're sequencing hundreds of thousands of molecules. On each part of the chip. So there's an advantage there that's hard to replicate with sequencing. Tell us a bit more about how this sort of chip hybridazation works for people who are unfamiliar. I hear chip, and I, well sometimes I think potato chip. But I, I know in this case we're probably talking about something more like maybe a computer chip. How does this work exactly? Yes, the chip is really a glass slide that contains an array of DNA. And those, and the DNA is bound to glass beads that are scattered on a regular pattern on the, on the chip. So then that DNA is designed by us to bind to the parts of the genome we're interested in. It's a process I talked about a minute ago and it, it comes together through the process of base pairing just like double helix space pairing. And then either you have, let's say, an A at position, the position we're interested in or G. And depending on which of those two you have, will either light up green or light up red on the chip. Have a specific position on the chip. I see. So you essentially have sort of a discrete, or, or quantum unit for every little DNA molecule that you're testing. You get a little signal that says, oh, you have an A, or you have a G here. Exactly. And because humans are diploid, you'll also get situations where you have A and G, one from mother, one from father. So then what we see at that position on the chip is red and green or kind of a yellow signalling you can think of it. Oh that's really clever. So that allows you to easily distinguish any given position that you're looking at. Yes. So when we get the data at 23andMe we actually can plot it on a simple x y plot with the red on the y axis and green on the sorry on the x axis. And then we'll see three clusters of people who are AA, AG, and GG, because those are the three possible situations for this position in your genome. Then we can say, well if you're in this cluster. Just because the process is called clustering, and you're AG, and if you're in this cluster, then you're AA. So there's a kind of a simple analysis problem at the end of the output there. I see, and it sounds like you're actually using, sort of, the information from a pooled set of individuals. You know, you're sort of looking. So even though an individual call may be difficult to know where on that graph you're, you're place if you use this clustering like you said you can more readily identify oh, you're part of this group so you're AA, not AG kind of thing? That's exactly right and there are also situations you can imagine where we get even more information. So you could imagine a situation where you have a deletion of the part of the genome we're interested in. Then what we'll see is a new cluster, another cluster [UNKNOWN] three, with lower intensity. Because there's less signal there because there are fewer DNA molecules. So then, a new cluster could emerge. And it could be as infrequent as one in 10, 000 people, or one in 100,000 people. But we'll see a little nucleus of samples there. Now in in lesson two of our course we actually talked for the first time there about the idea of base pairing and we learned about the base pairing rules and how things fit together. What I find really interesting is the idea that in a double stranded DNA you know of all these letters matching with each other is, is what you're telling us the idea that, a single nucleotide variant is just one letter change here, that if one letter doesn't match, then essentially what's happening is that the strand can't actually hybridize completely, it can't base pair completely, and that's why you you don't see the signal for one, but you do for another. Is that essentially what's going on? It's something very close to that. So what we expect is that all of the letters leading up to the letter we're interested in will bind. Mm-hm. And like you say, if there is a an error there, one difference, then it won't bind or it will bind weakly. So the signal will be weak. But then the specific letter we're interested in, which will kind of come out one more base. Mm-hm. Has, there's a pool of As, Gs, Cs and Ts floating around that can bind there or not. They'll only bind. If it's the correct base pair. And it's unoccupied. And it's unoccupied. Then we'll see the the extension happen. The reaction that leads to the color, you know, the color that we can see in our imaging system. That's great. So essentially you have this, you said the chip is a slide, and you're looking at a million bases in this one little chip? This one little space? Yeah, so there're even more than that. There are more than a million beads per chip. Because, it's better to read the same variant many, many times just to get a good average signal. The reason for that is that, if you're in the corner, maybe you'll get slightly different optics because the camera's looking at the center of the chip or so on, or something like that. So you just want some redundancy. I see. So it's more than ten million beads per chip. And that process has been improving over the years. The density of the chips has been increasing a lot. How many chips, so, I mean, do you, have you always used the same chip, or how do you make changes. You know, if there's a new, I guess, I don't know, a new trade or a new a new SNV that you become interested in, are you able to change your chip so you can look at that? Yeah, so we update the chip approximately every 18 months. we're on the third iteration right now. and we're constantly looking for new variants to add to the chip to improve the performance of it. So you can imagine that if there's a paper published that says, this mutation and this gene causes a disease and it's, you know, it's very interesting to find that out. We can design what we call a probe for that, just the base the sequence of DNA that's attached to the glass bead, and make sure it's on the next iteration of the chip. You mentioned that the hybridization process is sort of the, the longest part. so that happens over, over night? Yeah. What, I mean for those of us I mean, we've learned conceptually about base pairing, but any technical insight you might have. I mean what's Why is this an overnight process? Essentially, it just takes time for the DNA in your saliva, in your extracted saliva sample, to find the right feed. So you want to give it time to just search around in the solution, find the right bead, and bind there and that takes time. I see. It takes time, just based on how quickly the DNA moves around and how tightly it binds. and what do you use to measure the results? Are you, I mean, are you just like snapping a picture of the chip? What's actually happening? Yes, it's very close to that. in essence, you get what's called a fluorophore attached to the, the bead. Because of the presence of the A or the G at that position. that's the red or green signal. You, you shoot a laser at it to excite the fluorophore. And then you take a photograph of it with a digital camera. So a lot of it is very much, you know, digital camera based, which is interesting, that that technology with our technology. Yeah that, and it also sounds like. I mean, I know how big my digital camera picture files are that sounds like it's a lot of data, a lot of information that you end up with Yeah. So all of that data from this giant image files gets processed by software that's actually run at our lab in Los Angeles and translated into the x, y plot that I mentioned before. Because for each bead on the chip, really all we're interested in is how much red is there in there and how much green. The photograph itself is not terribly useful after we've extracted that data. I see. well, it, it sounds still like there's a lot, There's a lot of stuff that goes on from the time that you guys get that raw data. And you sort of do your quality control, your QC check before you know, I see it on my 23andMe profile page. I mean is, is, is all of that just sort of computational biology at that point? who, who is looking at that data? Whose organizing it? What's sort of going on there? Yeah, it really becomes a computational biology problem once we get the data from the lab and that's really where 23andMe concentrates. most of our, staff here are computational biologists, or software engineers so that's really where we're best. so, the next major component there is called Calling. That's turning the data that we get from the lab into the AAs, AGs, or GGs that you can download in your raw data. Or produce the reports you see on our website. and that's kind of an involved process but it in essence relies on looking at these XY plots. And making sure that everything was where we expect it to be. and so the final results that, that we get back seem to look so, so curated and so, so official. wha, I mean how much of the computational sort of side of this is sort of deriving, you know, oh what did this letter mean. I mean how do you, I mean are you guys viewing all the literature and, and selecting things and how, how are those decisions made in general? So we actually have a pretty big content team at 23andMe. They're the ones who scour the literature, look at what's going on in the current science of genetics. And find out this mutation or this variant causes this disease and it's a new discovery. Then they would write up what they think about that and try to put it in a language that makes sense to our users. And if it meets our scientific criteria, it goes out to the website. It is all automated it can take time just to process the data through through to the website. But the actual process of taking your data, calling all of the variants and all that is quite quick. You can think of the website as being in two parts, there's the part where we, just look at the calls that you have for a disease. And, the report just links that call to the results. Say for example, we could say, you are a carrier of, of cystic fibrosis because you have this variant. That's, that's a scientific challenge, to figure out. Mm-hm. What's going on in the literature, but it's not an algorithmic challenge. The other part of the website includes things like our Ancestry Composition feature. And our Relative Finder feature, those are difficult algorithmic problems. You want to take the whole you know, genotype sample. All million variance to try and figure out, based on that, what is this person's ancestral composition. Mm-hm. So you can imagine that that's actually a more complex task and requires a lot of code taking it from, you know, a, b, c, through to the end. Okay I'm really excited because we just got our 23 me results back and Joanna's actually going to walk us through the results. Joanna what do we do first? Well let's go and log in, and then we get to choose to look at health results first or ancestry results and I typically like to look at someone's ancestry results first because that really gives us context for the rest. Okay let's go do that. Okay, Joanna I just pulled up the page. Right. Okay, so the first thing we do, Matt, is, is sign in here, if you want to click up here. Okay. Al right, let me put in my login information. Yep, great. And there are a bunch of options for where to start here but, I suggest we start with ancestry overview. And. Okay I suggest we, the, that most a broad overview of your ancestry is in this feature called ancestry composition and we can already tell from this that eh, about a quarter of your ancestry traces back to Britain and Ireland. Oh great so we'll click right here then. Yep, yep. And this is what we call a ring chart, this is Matt Cook's ring chart and let's get a little more detail by clicking the Plus sign there. And if you click it one more time, that's when we get down to the level of the, of Britain and Ireland, that the one quarter British and Irish is indicated by that blue ring there. Mm-hm and so overall your ancestry traces to Northern Europe just like me. Oh, okay. And, if you look, that's where most of your ancestry traces to close to 98% traces to northern Europe and nothing, I don't see anything tracing to southern Europe. But one curious thing, if you click right here on Sub-Saharan Africa, there's, that just, just less than a percent of your ancestry traces back to, to Africa, and that, what I want to do is look at where on your genome that segment that traces back to Africa is. Okay. So, we're now looking at, this is the ring chart view, let's go and change from the map view. Okay. To the chromosome view. Chromosome view? Yes. Oh, wow. And so we see that if we looked at chromosome, so each of these pairs of bars is a pair of chromosomes and, and we've heard throughout the course about pairs of chromosomes coming from mother and father. So that's what we're looking at here we start with the longest chromosome, number one. Mm hm. Number two is next and we go all the way down to chromosome 22, and then the X chromosome here, is here. And I only have one. You only have one which is indicative of you being male, which I think you already knew that. I already knew that. That's good. But its always nice when your DNA results are consistent with something you already know. Sure. That is kind of a check. It's something we actually check, we ask all the customers to tell us if they're male or female, and then we look at their DNA to see if it [INAUDIBLE]. That just helps us know that these are really all your data. Great. And what I, I was curious about was this red strip here so what we can see most of those bars, the chromosomes are a shade of blue and that indicates ancestry from Europe. hum Or, or Britain or Ireland. Now but there's there's some other colors here and the red refers to Sub-Saharan African ancestry which of the chromosomes seems to have at least a segment tracing back to Africa? Well so if I look at my own chromosomes here I, I see the red regions are only on chromosome ten and the X chromosome. So I would say that those are the two chromosomes that actually have bits of information on them DNA that originated in the Sub-Saharan African region. And, and that is, you know, not necessarily a generation ago or, it's probably a little while ago and you know, could be hundreds of years ago that you have ancestors who were living in Africa. Now, are there actually better examples of ancestry composition? I mean. Oh. I feel like mine's pretty homogenous. I'd love for you to pull up the, the results for a friend of mine Roy King. Holy cow. Who, now, Roy understands that his ancestry traces to Europe, to Africa. and that he has some Native American ancestry. And when we look at his results here, we see, look, even Chromosome one has multiple colors. It has the red, the light blue, and a darker blue. And the darker blue there refers to Ash, Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry. And Roy knows that his father's father was, was Jewish. Mm-hm. And so, if we go back to map view. Mm-hm. we'll see that, about getting close to a quarter of Roy's ancestry traces back to the Ashkenazi Jewish population. And that fits with his, one of his grandfathers being Ashkenazi Jewish. And if we look at the rest of his ancestry, almost half of this is back to sub-saharan Africa. [CROSSTALK] The red ring here, and the rest traces back to Northern Europe, specifically Britan and Ireland. Now, what is really cool is that we have these bars right here. And if we look over, if you click on a native american. Mm-hm. So those orange and deep red bars refer to parts of the genome that trace back to Native Americans. And and, intriguingly Roy King knows that on his mother's side, he has ancestors, acreek and Chocta ancestors. So that is a showing up in his DNA. So basically you know, his understanding of where his ancestors come from really shows that very beautifully in his DNA. Right, he has a much more interesting genetic background than I do. Right. From many different parts of the world. And that is important. Even when we go to look at the health results, the health reports are all done in the context of a particular population. So, it's very important to kind of be clear on the ancestral background of, of someone as we go to look at the other parts of their results. Great. So Matt, we've had a chance to look at your overall ancestry by looking at your DNA on chromosomes one to 22 and the X. hmm. and that gives us a good overview. But, specifically, we'd like to look at your maternal ancestry, that is, going through your mother, and her mother, and your mother's mother's mother. hmm. And we can do that by looking at a very specific subset of the SNVs. Okay and, I think we're going to learn a little bit more about that in lesson 11 of the course. But for right now can you tell us what's the only chromosome that's passed from mother to all of her children and through which we can actually trace our maternal lineage? There's one part of the cell that's transmitted only through the egg but not the sperm, and that's the mitochondria. And mitochondria have DNA called mitochondrial DNA. And if we look at the SNVs in the mitochondrial DNA, we can actually trace maternal ancestry. So using the information from my mitochondrial chromosome the SNVs we can trace my maternal line. Exactly. you got your mitochondrial DNA from your mother, she got it from her mother. And she got it from her mother and so on and so let's take a look at your mitochondrial DNA. Okay. Alight, and what I'd like to do now, is focus on the maternal line. So let's go back up to the menu, My Results. 'Kay. And under Ancestry Overview, we see Maternal Line, which is what we've been talking about. and then. Oh, wow. So I have my maternal line from J2A1A And what does that mean exactly? So if you remember when we looked at the rest of your chromosomes they indicated a lot of ancestry from Britain and Ireland. And J2 is a [INAUDIBLE]. It's also very common in Europe and different parts in Europe. and it's a lineage that arrived in Europe maybe 45,000 years ago. So that's something that you inherited from your mother. So, if you were to trace back you, you know, and get to know who you're relatives were through your maternal line. You'd find that they all, that they, you probably were living in Europe, different parts of Europe. And maybe if you went far enough back, if you went 45,000 years you'd probably find that they were on the Arabian peninsula, in the Near East. and if you went even further back, you'd find that they were in Africa. Because if we, all of us, when we trace our ancestry, a single lineage of our ancestry far enough back, we'll find that it traces to Africa. Now interestingly, I actually have my, my own father is in the 23andMe. Aha. Okay. Group 2, and I notice that he and I have the same mitochondrial subgroup. Right. Now, does that mean we're related? That means that you have a common maternal ancestor. And it could be back, you know, thousands of years. I see. yeah. But that's kind of cool, you know? Mm-hm. To share that maternal ancestry. It's not, you did not inherit it from him. But both of you have a maternal ancestor, if you go back far enough, the same maternal ancestor. And now, what about Roy King, who we looked about earlier? Okay. Let's find, so. Roy is. Roy has a lineage called L2C, and that lineage is very common in Western Africa. And if we recall Roy's overall ancestry chromosomes 1 to 22. about half of it traced back to Africa. But what we see by looking at his maternal line is that, specifically, If he goes back the mothers, you know? his mother's mother's mother's mother's mother came from Africa. and what I'd like to do is compare that with his paternal line, I mean when I get a chance. Okay. Okay. So Matt we can also trace your paternal line, that is your father's father's father's father's lineage using a special subset of the SNV's. And can you tell us, do you remember which chromosome is the only chromosome that is down from father to son? So, you may recall that females have two X chromosomes and males have an X an and a Y. And that Y is inherited from father to son and so a man inherited his wife and his dad, who inherited it from his dad. So, we can use SNV's on the Y chromosome to trace paternal ancestry. Joanne, it's really, really exciting to actually look at my paternal line and see sort of how far back in time and, and geography we can go with this. But, if you don't have a Y chromosome then how could you ever look at your paternal lineage? Yeah. And many women are interested in exactly that same thing. Even though we don't have Y chromosomes. So, but there is a way to trace your paternal line even if you don't have a y chromosome. And that is to find someone who has your father's y chromosome. my father passed away years ago so he wasn't available for testing. but my uncle kindly agreed to get tested and so I was able to learn about my paternal line through him. And other possibilities if I had had a brother. If my paternal grandfather had been alive. So there are a number of relatives who can help a woman trace her paternal line. Okay, Matt. So, we see here that you and your dad have a, a paternal lineage called I1. Mm hm. actually, I1 star. And we see, from the map, that it's very, very frequent in Northern Europe, particularly in Scandinavia. I don't know if you were aware of any Scandinavian ancestry on your dad's side. But that's, this is suggesting that if you go far enough back on your dad's side. you might find that you have an ancestor who's, lives in Scandinavia. Now this fits with the autosomal ancestry pattern that we saw for me, right, where it said I had a strong Northern European descent. That's right. Yes, yes, yes. So this is just. Reinforcing that information that we see. I see, and it says that over here that age is 28,000 years. What does that mean exactly? So this lineage like all the the haplogroups are defined by a particular mutation that happened, you know, a long time ago. And in this case, 28,000 years ago a mutation happened on the y chromosome. And it's the defining, and then everybody who inherited that particular y chromosone also inherited that mutation. And so, the last 28,000 years men and their sons have carried that particular mutation and you are part of kind of that clan. I see. Of, of males with this particular lineage. So this means that, in this region here. Somewhere in this region is where that mutation happened. It's, well. About 28,000 years ago? We don't know for sure where it happened. But because it's most frequent in this general region now. I see. We, We speculate that it was probably in that, in that general area. You know, very far North in Europe. Now, let's take a look, at actually. Let's go back to Roy. Yes. King. Roy King and his father, Roy King, Sr, both have a lineage that is fairly common in in Jewish men. and that fits with Roy's understanding that his father's father was Jewish. So, we're really seeing his grandfather right there in the DNA of the y chromosome. So to go a little deeper let's click on the history tab and move away from the map. And this is an overall, you know, story about the, the history of this lineage J2. and and it mentions the, the branches of this J2 haplogroup spreading with the Jewish diaspora from the Middle East across Europe. so this is just what is, and this, all this information comes from studies of people who currently carry the J2 lineage around the world. And so many scientists have conducted studies and they publish papers and then this story is drawn from those publications. So we can go pretty far back in time with the maternal and paternal lines. But we can go even further back with the cool feature that allows us to look at how much natal ancestry we have. I'm sorry. I, are you saying that humans and Neanderthals were interbreeding at some point? Well, DNA from Neanderthal fossils is indicating just that. It seems like it did happen. And so, why don't we go and take a look. And see how much Neanderthal ancestry you have, Matt? Let's do it. So, here we are looking at the, y chromosome [INAUDIBLE]. Okay. How do I get to my Neanderthal results? So, go up to my results. And then, it should have a [INAUDIBLE]. [INAUDIBLE] Neanderthal ancestry. That's it, yeah. And, hey. Oh wow. So it says an estimated 2.7%of my DNA is. Right. From Neanderthals. That's right. Which is pretty cool. and we do, do that by comparing your DNA to what's known for Neanderthals. What the DNA that's been obtained from neanderthal fossils and So that means if you have DNA from Neanderthals that means you've only been able to get that DNA 'because Neanderthals aren't alive any more. That's right. So the only way to get that is from fossils, then. Absolutely. And, so, and, it's, it's been exciting to get more and more DNA out of these Neanderthal fossils. At first, it was only possible to get mitochondrial DNA. and the mitochondrial DNA didn't know that living humans have any sharing of mitochondrial DNA with Neanderthals. So everyone was kind of concluding that there was no inter-breeding. But now when we look at the rest of the chromosomes, one to 22 we, start seeing evidence of the inter-breeding. Wow, that's really cool. And, it looks down here that I can actually see where all of my friends and family. Yeah. With Neanderthal ancestry. Yeah. I'm the average, but it looks. That's right. like you can be higher, like Yes. 3.1%. Yeah, and your dad has a little more than you. Yeah, let's see, yeah, my dad's like at 3%. Yeah, I mean, these are you know, just rough approximations, 'because it's hard to get an exact estimate. Oh, but let me tell you one important thing. As soon as I saw that most of your DNA trace to Europe, I could have guessed roughly your Neanderthals ancestors because Europeans typically have between 2 and 4% of their ancestors traced to Neanderthals. whereas people who, most of their ancestry traces to Africa have far less. Because Neanderthals were not inter-breeding with, with our ancestors in, in Africa. Well, and we can even see that, here I am at 2.7%. Right. And Roy King. And his father who have African history [CROSSTALK] Yes, 1.2% and 1.5%. 1.5%. Yes. So, so that makes a lot of sense on knowing what we do about the timing and the location of where this inter-breeding takes place. Very cool. Mm-hm. Great. It's really neat to look at all my ancestry, maternal, paternal lines. Even my possible Neanderthal connections. but if I actually had my mom, my dad, my brother, sister, my cousins. If I had them all participate in 23andMe, would I be able to see our interrelationships? Yeah, it really shows up strongly in our DNA, that's right. For instance, if we compare Leticia to her mother, father, and brother, we can see which segments of her chromosomes match with which parent. We would expect Leticia to share 50% of her genetic material with each, with her mother, father and brother. But the 50% will look different for her parents compared to what she shared with her brother. Can you tell which of these comparisons is with Leticia's brother? I would say that it would be the comparison where the shared pieces of chromosomes are just these segments, not the whole length of the chromosome? That's right, Matt. Because you got a whole chromosome from each parent, and therefore you should see sharing along the whole chromosome. But you and your sibling got different pieces of chromosome from parents, and therefore if you share anything, it's just going to be the segments, and not the whole thing. The graphs we've been looking at are called identity by descent, or IBD graphs. And identity by descent means that you're identical for a particular segment of the genome with somebody else, because you inherited that segment of the genome from a common ancestor. now, it's all pretty complicated. Yeah, I've, I've heard it's pretty complicated, and we're going to spend a little bit more time going in depth in to identity by descent in lesson 11. Okay, so what else can my 23andM report tell me besides ancestry information? Well, one thing that I'd like to go and look at next is to see what your DNA says about some of your traits. Okay. So where am I going to go to look at my traits? All right, so go up to My Results menu. Okay. And under there you'll see Traits and just click on the Traits. All right. Oh, cool. So here's a long list of traits, but as an example what I'd like to focus on first is the report on lactose intolerance. Okay. and here's a column with stars and that, the number of stars there reflects how strong the science behind the report is. Not, not, not so much, you know, your particular result, but how if, if the scientific literature is really supportive of, of the connection between DNA and, and the trait. Okay, scrolling down it looks [INAUDIBLE]. So lactose intolerance So there's some background here on lactose intolerance and then here are your results. It says I'm likely to be tolerant. Yes. Due to lactase persistence and. So you have your're homozygous for the A allele. Okay. that's the critical SNV here and you share that with your dad. Your dad also has two copies of the A, so this means you got an A from your dad and an A from your mother. and having two copies there is, is making it most likely, according to the scientific literature, that you are going to be tolerant of lactose and able to drink, continue to drink milk as an adult. I see and I notice here too that I'll be lactose tolerant because I'm lactase persistent. And it looks like even if I have only one A then I'm still lactase persistent, so can you tell us if the A allele promotes lactase persistence even in the heterozygous state. Is the A allele dominant or recessive? So, we can conclude that the a allele is dominant because whether or not you have one A or, or two A's, you still see the effect on the trait. You have lactase persistance. So, Joanna, I notice here that besides the actual allelic composition, I, I see learn more about sort of lactace persistence. And it says marker r s and it has some, some number here. That's right. now if I click on that number it takes me, it, it tells me that it's a snip, which we all know is in our course an snv and it gives me this number. What is this number? So that's the snv id. It's also called an rs id and it's a a way for everyone to have a shared understanding of how to name a particular SNV. They're each of, each SNV is given a name that starts with RS, and then has a long string of numbers. So, why don't you click on that. And what we find, if we click on the, the RSID, is we find that it's on chromosome two, and it's in or near a gene called MCM6. and that the versions, the two alleles that one can have are A and G, which we've discussed previously. And here, again, we see that Matt's genotype for this SNP is AA. I think. let's know that you don't get anything more if you click further. So can there be SNP's that have more than two possible options at that position. Here, I, I, I see that most of the SNP's we look at have sort of two letters, two possible or reals. Are there SNP's where there are more. There are cases where there are three different versions or alleles, but most of them just have two [INAUDIBLE]. If I wanted to find out more information about this particular. Yeah. SNP with this sort of RSID. Yes. Right here, where could I go? There are a couple of databases that have more information And one is called dbSNP. And dbSNP is really a list of all known SNPs or SNVs and and it's a place where people share information about SNVs. the other resource. If you want to learn more about a particular SMV is to go to SNPedia. So, SNPedia is a wiki where lots of scientists, put information regarding particular SMVs. you know, what is known about. how they shape human variation. This means that I could actually type in the allele. Yes. For lactate persistence. Right. Here that we just learned about. Great. And it pulls up this page and it gives me tons of information about it here. Sort of in a Wikipedia format. Right. [LAUGH] Notice that most of the traits we see in the list here, are things that I might even know about already. You know my ear wax type, or my bitter taste perception, lactose intolerance. You know, are are there any traits we can look at that I wouldn't already know? Well, you might not be aware of whether you have HIV resistance. Okay. So and we what we'll, that is where we look at the CCR 5 gene. Right here. Well we learned about the CCR 5 in less than 6. It says here that I'm not resistant. That's right. So, it's going to look at your actual genotype and here it says II. where the D indicates the deletion, the delta 32 deletion. So people can have two deletions. They can have deletion and the opposite of deletion is the insertion. So you basically, I mean if you don't have the deletion, you, which is called insertion. So you just have both, two intact copies of the gene. Now if. And therefore you're not resistant to HIV infection. So in this case, if the person, if an individual needs two copies of the deletion to be resistant to HIV infection, is this deletion or the delta 32 that we learned about in lesson six. Would it be dominant or recessive? We want to know if the deletion is dominant or recessive, but we see here if you're homozygous for the deletion that the only way to be resistant to HIV infection is to be homozygous for the deletion and therefore it's recessive. Here we're looking at, at your results Mm-hm. But if you want to learn more about the CCR5 gene and this particular SNV you can scroll down and read about it here. And actually there're very many citations listed that give background, detailed background information on the connection between this gene and this SNV and resistant to HIV. Perfect. So Matt, I'd like to take a look at another category of reports that come out of your genome. And I, those are called inherited gate conditions. And those include things like cystic fibrosis and bloom syndrome, and sick cell anemia. Oh, well, I, I know I'm not a carrier for sickle cell anemia. But that makes sense, because I have a mainly European background. And sickle cell anemia isn't prevalent of those with European descent. However, in sub Saharan Africa, it is is more prevalent. And you guys may remember [FOREIGN], who's from Kenya. [FOREIGN], Has anyone in your family ever been affected by sickle cell anemia? No. No one in my family has been affected by sickle cell anemia. But I am aware of people around me who've had it. Okay. Well, why don't we go take a look at your results to see if, by any change, you're a carrier. Sounds good. Okay, great. Alright. So, now that we've logged into your profile [INAUDIBLE]. we need to go up to my results, and look for the inherited conditions section. And what does it say for you, [INAUDIBLE]? Let's find it. We'll scroll down until you find the sickle cell anemia report. There. Is that it? This is it here. What does it say? It says variant absent. Variant absent. What does that mean, Joanna? So, that means that you do not carry a, one of the variants that's linked to sickle cell anemia. So now we're looking at the report itself, and there's some background information. Let's scroll down to find your actual results and then we see, that is. It says you do not have the s version of the HBB gene, which is linked to Sickle Cell Anemia. Okay so, it says here that a person with one copy of the S version, typically does not have sickle cell anemia, but can pass mutation to offspring. So does that mean that the S allele is dominant or recessive? The only individuals who actually get sickle cell anemia are those who have two copies of the S version of the HPV gene. And therefore the s allele is recessive. Which is true for many of these inherited conditions. One needs two copies of the allele in order to experience the condition. So another type of report I'd like us to take a look at, is the drug metabolism reports. because from those we can learn how your body will react to particular drugs. So, when you say drugs, do you mean, like, prescription drugs or, like, other things, too? Yes, prescription drugs, but we can also learn how we expect your body to react to substances such as alcohol and caffeine. So why don't we go take a look at your caffeine and metabolism results? Okay so then we go to My Results again, and then go on Drug Response. Click Drug Response and we'll see a list of reports and if we scroll down a bit Oh caffeine metabolism. Yeah, click on the one that says caffeine metabolism. We see here that for the particular SNV that's important here, you have, your homozygous for the a allele. That means I'm a fast caffeine metabolizer, so if I drink coffee it didn't increase the subjects heart attack risk. Right, And basically that means you metabolize caffeine quickly and the caffeine doesn't build up in your body as, as much. It says here that I'm a fast caffeine metabolizer drinking coffee here in the study didn't increase the subject's heart attack risk. Okay, yes you have the A version at this SNV and that it means you have a version the metabolizing enzyme that breaks down the caffeine efficiently. So, if I'm a fast metabolizer of caffeine, would the effects of caffeine last longer or shorter for me? We know that your DNA leads you to metabolize caffeine more quickly than others. so the effects of the caffeine are shorter than they would be for others. Great. And we're actually going to learn more about how this process works in the pharmacogenetics lesson lesson ten. Great. It's really interesting to see how my body might metabolize drugs differently from someone else but what about all those traits that aren't so simple, that don't just have one way or another? The complex traits, like diabetes or heart disease? Yeah, especially for many diseases, the genetics is complex so we need to look at multiple SMBs to figure out what your risk of disease is. So, well one example we can go and take a look at your results for coronary heart disease. Okay. So Matt, let's go to your results, and then look under [CROSSTALK] health risks. That's where many of these complex disease reports are, that involve multiple SNDs. Okay, look so this is my health risk page. I am sure a lot of people are interested in this, and it seems to list them in order of elevated risk here first, and we have a list of them from my risk down to the, average risk here. So, it looks like I have elevated risk for psoriasis, Alzheimer's, chronic kidney disease multiple Sclerosis? In many case, it might be slightly higher than average, but not much higher than average. Yeah, I see here that, for example, Multiple Sclerosis is 0.47% Right. But the average is like 0.34%. Right, right. And especially when the average is low, you can have a higher than average and it still can be low. So let's scroll down to coronary heart disease. Al right. So it actually says this is under my decrease risk category. That means lower than average. So my risk is 32.9%. So let's click on the report to get the details of where that estimate comes from. Okay, and let's scroll down and it says, this is information for Matthew Cook, and it's under the assumption that you have European ancestry, mostly, and, this if for the rage, age range is between age 45 and 79. So basically what's getting calculated here is your risk of coronary heart disease between the, your ages when, between your ages of 45 and 79, so before age 79, what is your chance of, of having coronary heart disease, and. And it looks like the averages is 46.8. The average is actually not that far from 50% so men, and this is for men of European ancestry. it's actually quite high for the average man, the risk of coronary heart disease. And it says here that I'm actually lower and they have this nice sort of visual to represent that out of a population of 100 or more. About a third. Yeah. You're, you're of with people with your genetics your risk seems to be about one in three. Mm-hm. About 33%. Now how is this risk determined? I mean, if I scroll down can I actually see? Keep scrolling and we'll see some details. And we'll see. Oh wow. All these little bars each bar refers to a different SNV. Oh, so each one of these represents a different possible change in my DNA sequence. That's right. That's right. And some of them give you protection, and those are the green bars, and some increased your risk on those are the red bars. Oh, wow. Oh, if I hover over it, it'll tell me. Yes. The gene and the, the SMD. SMD, that's right. And your genotype. So, essentially, the number that you report for me is actually a combination of all. That's right. Of these together? That's right, you know, if you multiply across all the different SMBs to get you an overall average risk for people who have similar genetics to you. We're going to focus a lot more on the idea of heritability. Oh, yes. And, on population variation, and complex traits. [CROSSTALK] Oh, okay. In lesson nine but, I'm just really curious if we actually look at someone else who doesn't have a European background. Right. Let's look at Roy King, can we do him? Yes we can, so Roy actually does have quite a bit of European ancestry. Okay. but this is still assuming, this is really focusing on his European ancestry, and so his estimate, shows somewhat higher than average. A little less. A little less than average. but notice he is low in risk. Right. And so, I'm actually curious to, let's, let's change something else. We're going back to my coronary heart disease report. Yes. If I change the age range to let's say 45 to 54. So that's basically saying in that Age range. Age range. What is your chance. The average is 7.7. Right. Right. So that's what we expect, people who are younger have less a risk of heart disease. Yes.Yes If you compare that to the top age range, which is... 75 to 79... 75 to 79. It's going to be quite a bit higher. because, a lot of your, lot of your risk for heart disease is when you're older. So it's... Oh wow, yeah. It's quite a bit higher. So, yours is still lower than average but it's, a lot of risk for any of these diseases is weighted to late in life. And just to be clear, this doesn't mean that I'm not going to have coronary heart disease ever, this just means that my risk for it is lower than average. That's right. everyone has some risk but you can see as you, when you compare the age range results that it's still low now, especially in the next ten years, I mean, you're still young, so your risk of having heart disease in the next ten years is low. but by the time you get into your late 70s it starts to go up a bit. Okay. Mm-hm. One of the really cool features of 23andme results, is when you can combine your Ancestry and Traits information and you can do this when you have family members that have results to see. You can see exactly which alleles you share with which family members. Let's take Joanna Mountain's family as an example. Here's her family tree or pedigree. This is Joanna, this is her husband Heyward. Her children Myles and Seamus and their grandparents, David, Susan, Anthony and Tasha. One big question that Joanna and her husband had about one of her children, Seamus, is that he has blue eyes while both of his parents Joanna and Heyward have brown eyes. Of course Joanna knew that eye color was determined genetically, which meant that she knew that Seamus' blue eyes must have been passed down from her and her husband. And ultimately from their individual parents, Seamus' grandparents. So Joanna set out and coded their family tree or pedigree here. With the eye colors of her children. Her and her husband, and their parents. Now unfortunately, the maternal and paternal grandfathers were deceased. But the paternal and maternal grandmothers were still alive. And we know that they both had brown eyes. And the question was. Were either of them contributing to the blue eyes that we see in Seamus? So a simple saliva sample from each and every one of the six individuals that we know something about here was collected. Now one of the alleles important in determining eye color is a gene called HERC2. Which we'll learn more about in Lesson Nine. Now without explaining the whole story, one allele of HERC2 is recessive and promotes blue eye color and another allele is dominant and promotes brown eye color. So, for Seamus to have blue eyes, that must mean that he inherited two recessive copies of the HERC2 gene from each of his parents. This means that Seamus is homozygous recessive. And each of his parents, Joanna and Heyward are heterozygous dominant for brown. And the question is, where did these recessive alleles come from? Which of Seamus's grandparents, in this case his paternal or maternal grandmothers, did they contribute a recessive allele to his eye color? So after submitting a saliva sample for everyone in the group, the 23andMe website allowed the family to compare their chromosomes side by side. In this case we're comparing Seamus' chromosomes with his paternal grandmother and here we're comparing his chromosomes to his maternal grandmother. Everywhere you see a shade of blue in which it indicates shared ancestry meaning that some of his chromosomes have inherited a piece from that individual grand parent. Any where you don't see shading means that they don't share that piece of the chromosome. And the red arrow indicates the location of the HERC2 gene on chromosome 15. So looking at comparison of Seamus' chromosomes to his paternal and maternal grandmothers, which grandparent did he inherit one HERC2 allele from and why? Go ahead and select which grandmother you think, and then tell me why in the text box here. Okay, the answer is the paternal grandmother. And the reason is, because only the paternal grandmother shares the chromosome segment with the HERC2 gene, not the maternal grandmother. And the significance behind this is actually pretty exciting. We know that Seamus must be homozygous recessive and his parents, Joanna and Hayward, must be heterozygous dominant. But he inherited a HERC2 gene containing segment of his chromosome 15 from his paternal grandmother. That means from Susan, even though she had brown eyes, she must have been heterozygous for the HERC2 gene, which was passed down to Hayward, which he then passed down to his son Seamus. So even though Hayward and Susan both had brown eyes, his paternal grandmother was responsible for giving Seamus the allele that made his eyes blue. Joanna, thank you so much for coming in and going through my 23andme report with, with us and with all of you out there. Is that pretty much all there is to the 23andme report? No, we just scratched the surface. there are all kinds of tools that you could use to go deeper into your health and deeper into your ancestry. and one in particular, a tool called DNA Relatives allows you to connect with people with whom you share DNA, people in the 23andme database. And you can discover new relatives and really flesh out your family tree. Now that sounds like a really cool feature. And we're going to use it in lesson 11. So all of you should stay tuned because we're going to discover if Sterling Tadlock, our adopted individual, can find any biological family members of his own. Guess what time it is? It's time for you to fill out the concept map for lesson seven. I want you to use the word bank here and see if you can fill in the blanks everywhere that you see. Good luck. Alright, lets see how you did and fill out the concept map together. Lets start here in the center, personal genetics. The decision to know is personal. And you must provide consent. We talk more about the idea of consent and the social implications of personal genetic information in lesson 12. Now if we want to learn more about our personal genetics. The 23andMe process starts with a DNA sample obtained from our saliva. And we can learn more about DNA, we learned about the basics in Lesson 2. Now, the DNA sample and saliva is sent to the lab for DNA extraction. And then there's a step of DNA amplification. After amplification the sample will be hybridized on a chip and the important part is this is not sequencing, right, we learn that this is not sequencing he genome. We're actually screening for 1 million different SNV's or Single Nuclear type Variance. And they're named individually by their rsID and together all these SNV's can represent different alleles. And we learn more about alleles, in lesson 6 in particular. But, once we have this information then were ready for Data Assembly and Analysis. Our results will include information about traits, and ancestry. We talked at length about traits in lesson one, and a bit more in lesson five. The types of traits we can learn about include monogenic traits, which we'll learn more about in lesson eight, complex traits, which we'll learn more about in lesson nine, and even particular traits that have to do with interactions with drugs. Which we'll learn more about in lesson 10. Now the information we learn about our ancestry tracks our maternal line, our paternal line and even family relationships which we'll learn a bit more about in lesson 11. And we actually use a calculation called IBD, or Identity By Descent, to determine some of these family relationships. Together, combining information about our ancestry and traits, we get a look at our family traits. Which track individual genes. Shared by various relatives. And we learned a lot about genes in lessons three and four. I hope you have a new appreciation for how all the information we learned about so far is connected. And how it connects into the information that we're going to learn in the remaining lessons. I really hope you've enjoyed learning about how to acquire personal genetic information in this lesson, and put it to use. Let's see if we can summarize some of these concepts into six main points. Point one, the decision to acquire personal genetic information in the first place, usually involves considerations of how that information can be used, not just by you, but also by other people. Point two. After consenting, a personal genome can be extracted, amplified, and analyzed using nothing more than a saliva sample. Point three. Ancestry information can be obtained generally or more specifically about the paternal and materal lines. Point four. Family connections can be inferred by comparing SNV compositions of related individuals. Point five, individual SNVs can reveal information about individual traits, inherited conditions, and even particular responses to drugs. And point six, risk for complex traits is usually evaluated by assessing multiple SNVs. Thank so much for coming, Joanna. It's been great having you here, and we've learned a lot. It's been my pleasure. and I'm really excited about what all of you are going to be learning in the remaining lessons. Now, for the rest of the course, we're going to be building on the knowledge we've gained in all the previous lessons, especially this one. Where we've had our own personal genetics expert show us how we can interpret some of our own genetic information. We're going to first learn about simple and then complex traits, move on to some pharmacogenetics, before learning about human ancestry and evolution. Your turn Thanks. [NOISE] You know, I've been thinking, this is a really great analogy for how the human body works. It's just a board game. Well sure, but I mean, think about it, from the outside looking in, it's a lot like the human body, it can seem really complicated, like a Rube Goldberg machine. What's that? Well, you know? Something where there's a seemingly simple task, right? There's just a trap coming down. [SOUND] But there's a ton of energy dependent steps that have to be accomplished for us to get to this simple outcome. I won. You did win. Now, although it looks complicated. If we remove just one piece from the machine here, we can totally alter the end outcome, or the end result. So, let's do it again and remove this little diver man [NOISE]. Okay. So I see, the whole game is like the human body. But there's obviously a lot more genes in the human body than there are human pieces in the game. Sounds like something a geneticist would study. That's exactly right. But a geneticist doesn't study all the genes at once. They still use the one gene at a time approach, meaning that they remove one piece, and they see what happens. Now if you remove one piece, and you actually can see a visible, overall effect, then you know you've got something important to the whole process. And this is actually what geneticists call a monogenic trait A monogenic trait is whenever one gene has a variation that effects the overall outcome or phenotype. This lesson is dedicated to inherited tratis that are influenced by single genes, or monogeneic traits. We're going to cover traits like, red, green colorblindness, dwarfism, osteogeneis imperfecta, and sickle cell anemia. For each of these traits we're going to uncover some of the genetic variations that cause these traits. And then also examine the dominance of these various alleles that contribute to an individual phenotype. Here's the concept map for lesson eight. As always, I want you to print it out and try to fill in the blanks on your own as we go through the lesson. Then in the end you'll have a chance to see how you did. There'll be a complete version of the map waiting for you at the end. Monogenic traits are traits that are significantly influenced by a single gene. Monogenic meaning one gene. Now these are also referred to as simple genetic traits and they're frequently found in many introductory genetics textbooks. And that's because they are pretty straightforward and easy to understand. We change one gene and we get a change in a trait. Now what I'd like for you to do is now that we've been through about seven lessons in the course. See if you can name one monogenic trait that we've covered so far, or maybe one that you've heard of elsewhere. But even if you're not sure, go ahead and try to think of one and put it in the text box here. Okay, the answers of these questions are that the trade is sex-linked with regards to its inheritance pattern and it appears to be recessive. Now how do we know this? Well, as fas as inheritance pattern is concerned, it looks sex-linked, because only males are affected. That's a hallmark sign that we have a gene traveling on an X chromosome somewhere. It can't be maternal inheritance because maternal inheritance means that it's passed down through the mitochondria and so if a mother was affected all of her children would be affected. And in this case we have an affected son who doesn't have an affected mother, so that can't be right. Now while it's still plausible that it might be autosomal. The big skewing here of only males being affected is our big hint that it's most likely sex-linked. In reality, we'd really need a pedigree that's bigger than this. We'd need more information, but for our intents and purposes here, this is the sort of size of pedigree we're looking at, and this is a good enough indication that it's more likely sex-linked than autosomal. The trait also appears to be recessive, not dominant. Because it doesn't show up in every generation, which is a hallmark of recessive traits. And we have unaffected parents giving rise to affected offspring. And dominant traits, we see the opposite. Where affected parents have affected offspring. And it doesn't skip generations. So we know dominant's most likely not the right answer. Although mutations that can cause color blindness have been found in over 56 genes on 19 different chromosomes. The most commonly inherited form of the disorder comes from mutations on the X chromosome. So here's the zoomed in pair of the sex chromosomes where the X chromosome is a part, in an individual that's XY. Remember the Y chromosome is much shorter than the X. Now the X chromosome is about 155 million base pairs from tip to tip. And the OPN1LW gene is located right here close to the end of the X chromosome. Notice that there's no corollary because the Y chromosome is much smaller and doesn't have the same genetic information that the Y does here. The OPN1LW gene, is a gene with 6 exons on the X chromosome spanning about 15,000 base pairs of DNA. And it has an allele that's associated with red, green color blindness. After a transcription and splicing of the gene, we're left with the coding region as 1,095 nucleotides long. And so after translation we end up with a protein that's 364 amino acids long. Remember, this map is pretty easy. We just divide 1,095 by 3 to get 365 and then subtract 1 to get 364 because remember the stop codon doesn't code for an amino acid, it's just empty. It means stop. Now one allele of the OPN1LW gene contains a C, a cytosine to T, to thymine mutation at position 739 of the coding region. I've highlighted the change in red here. Now, what I want you to do is, use the genetic code that you learned about in lesson 3 and you can find in the instructors notes on this page. And determine the change expected in the amino acid sequence and select the type of mutation that this C to T change is most likely categorized as. Now if you have trouble answering this you might want to review mutations from lesson 6. Alright, unless you had a fantastic memory, you probably had to check out the genetic code found in the instructor's notes on this page. And if you did that you'd find that the CGA would code for an arginine and that TGA or UGA would actually code for a stop codon. And this is best characterized as a nonsense mutation. The change from cytosine to thymine is considered a nonsense mutation, because it changes an arginine codon to a stop codon. Now, this ends protein synthesis prematurely, and you get a very shortened and highly dysfunctional protein. And without a fully functioning protein, an individual is likely to be effected by a kind of red green color blindness called protanopia. Which means that instead of seeing a normal color spectrum like this, they're actually less sensitive to red light. And the color spectrum looks like this instead. As you can see, there's very little difference between what should appear green and what should appear red. Thus the name, red-green color blindness. Hi. I'm Geoff Donaker. I live here in the Bay Area. California Bay Area and I have red green color blindness. OK, so red green color blindness. We, you know, just sort of heard about that for the first time in the course, and we're learning a bit more about the inheritance patterns. What is red green color blindness? What does it mean to be red green color blind? Well, to me, what it means is that I often mix up colors that have red in them. And so in particular, I mix up reds and browns and sometimes browns and greens, because I'm not seeing the red correctly in those. Sometimes it can even show up in the form of blues and purples. I'm sort of seeing them all as about the same, and in fact, you know, they may look different to other people. So, would be accurate in saying, just, they kind of look like darker colors or is it something about the shade maybe? I'm not really sure. I think that the way to think about it, you know, for me is that, sometimes what you may be seeing is, is the red in a particular orange for instance. To me I'm not seeing the red the same way you are, so I'm seeing it maybe like a dark yellow. and so I certainly see the world in a vibrant colorful way, and it's not like black and white or anything like that. I just see it differently than everybody else who doesn't see it in red, green color. It's such a great like, literal and metaphorical statement. I think a lot of people do go through life thinking that, you know, the assumption, this is the color vision, this is the vision I have, but not everybody literally sees the world in the same spectrum. That's right. When did you first know that you have red green color blindness? You know, I don't really remember. It was when I was a really young child. my uncle had been red green color blind, and then actually my mom's uncle as well. So I think I inherited it from her side. And so when I was a little kid, she recognized that I might be color blind, or had this perpensity. And so she had me tested at, you know, one of the eye doctors with looking at the little bubble charts with colors that you may remember having taken at some point. Sure and for anybody who may not be familiar with those what can, can you describe that bubble chart a little more? Sure it's basically a lot of little dots, and those dots typically show some sort of a picture, character, letter that a red green color blind person may not be able to pick out the particular picture or letter that everybody else, you know, they, it pops out. So for instance, back to my, yellow, orange analogy. you know, you may have two different shades of orange in there that to you look really obviously different, and to me look actually about the same. So I'm not seeing that letter that's popping out of the picture and you are. so as you've grown up, and even now as an adult how does red green color blindness affect your daily life? Do you have, what kind of special, if anything sort of interactions you have to go through to accommodate? You know, not much. when I clothes shop I, you know, online certainly helps these days because the colors are all labeled. you know when I go clothes shopping in the store, I'll often ask the retail person just for sanity check. What color is this? If it's blue, I'm generally pretty sure I'm okay, or black or things like that. but if I'm getting something that's in the green spectrum, you know, I'll want a sanity check that it, it's what I think it is, and it's not some version of orange or something that people are going to comment on. Mm-hm. so that's one way, you know, another way is just periodically things that look camouflaged to me won't be camouflaged to other people, so for instance, you know, my kids the other day were playing with an orange ball in the yard. And to me when they dropped it in the grass, it was almost camouflage in the grass. And you know they thought that was the funniest thing in the world. Cause to them this orange was just totally popping off the lawn. Have you ever not been able to participate in something or anything because of the color blindness or anything like that? Or, or you've pretty much always been able to find some work around if it was an issue, you could, you know, it was always doable? Yeah, I mean as a general statement it's really never been a big deal. I certainly remember a couple of times as a kid where I felt a little left out or picked on during art projects at school where, you know inevitably I picked the wrong color. Where you were supposed to be something that was brown and I picked green, or something like that nature, and other kids would tease me and, I, yeah. I really remember maybe two or three of these incidents, but you certainly work around it, and somebody points you to the right color, and you keep moving. so, never been a big deal by any means, but, you know, there's certainly a little bit of that, like, you are a little bit different from the way everybody else is seeing it. if someone's watching this, and, you know, they're like, oh, you know, I wonder if I'm color blind, or maybe someone's recently found out they are, or someone they know is. What advice would you give to somebody who may have recently found out that, you know, they are red green color blind? And of course there are other kinds of color blindness too. what advice would you give to them? I don't know. I guess first point would simply be it's not that big a deal. So, you know, roll with it and enjoy the fact that you're seeing the world in a slightly different color hue than everybody else is. and then the other one would be, when you're picking clothes, ask a friend or the sales associate at the store just so that you know what you're buying. [LAUGH] sure The human eye is an amazing structure, even if it really has an imperfect sort of looking design. Normally, light comes in here through the, the pupil, must pass through this initial clear region, and then has to make it to the back of the eye, called the retina. And way here back in the back of the retina past layers of cells, if the light can make it through all of these occluding structures, all of these. Things blocking it's path and it makes it to the very back to this oddly shape cells here called cone cells. That are actually interpreted as the color that we see everyday. Now the visible lights spectrum is interpreted by humans to the detection of three main wavelengths of light that corresponds to three main colors. Red, green and blue. There's a special type of cell here in the back of the retina, that's able to detect these three different colors. And it's called the cone cell. And there are three different kinds of cone cells that can recognize each of the different colors. Now these three different types of cone cells. Can each detect a certain wavelength of light? Remember, light is actually energy and it travels in the form of the wave and the color spectrum essentially correlates to certain wavelengths that our eyes can see. The longer wavelengths are in the red spectrum and the shorter wavelengths are in the blue spectrum. And the middle wavelengths that we can see are in the green spectrum. Each of these different types of cone cells are actually able to detect a specific wavelength of light. Together, these give you all the colors, all the combinations of all the colors that you can see. You know this whole amazing process is possible because there are proteins, like OPN1LW, that absorb light at each of those different wavelengths. In the case of OPN1W, it focuses on absorbing light from the red wavelengths. So if this is the cone-cell membrane, right? We're really zoomed in here, and in the membrane of the cell there are this proteins. Specifically PN1W, that absorbs red light, and essentially tells the cell, and then ultimately the brain, that hey, this is red light. Now in the case the premature stop codon that we talked about in the last exercise. The changing from cytosine to thymine causes a severely shortened protein that doesn't actually make it to the membrane. So now the cone cell can't detect red wavelength of light and it just bounces away. So what I want you to do is think about this mutation and categorize it. Whether you think it's a loss of function, a gain of function, or no change in function mutation. Okay, we would expect this to be a loss of function. Think about it. We actually went from a protein that's able to detect red light and send that signal on to a protein that can't even get, make it to the membrane if at all, and can't detect anymore. It's lost its function. It hasn't gained any new function. And we know that there's no change because obviously now we can't detect that red light. So, the C739T allele is referred to as a loss of function allele for the OPN1LW gene. Because the red cone cells lose the ability to detect long wavelengths, or red light. As a result, the combination of colors an individual can see is altered. Take this rainbow of colors for example, if you have normal color vision, then you should be able to distinguish these six individual panels from each other as red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and purple or violet. But in the case of this C739T allele of the OPN1LW gene, an individual has something called protanopia. And this is what they would see, instead of the six colored rainbow here. Protanopia is a severe type of color division deficiency, caused by the complete absence of the red photoreceptors. Like OPN1LW. Pure reds can not be seen, they instead appear sort of dark and black. Purple colors can't really be distinguished from blues and more orange tinted reds kind of appear as very dim yellows. And pretty much all orange, yellow, green shades, of too long a wave length to stimulate the other colors, like blue, appear just as a yellow color. So based on the comparison we just did, I want you to tell me which of the following you would expect a person with protanopia, or red/green color blindness, to have trouble with. But I want you to do this based on the colors alone that you see in the examples. Just the colors. I want you to look at each answer individually. And then check any and all that you think apply. And remember, if you have trouble distinguishing the colors that you see here. You might want to visit your doctor and get checked out for color blindness. Ok, with the loss of the cones that detect red light, and the resulting protanopia, or red green color blindness that we talked about in our comparison up here. We would probably expect to have trouble at stoplights that have red yellow green to signify them. Electrical wires where there's red, green, and yellow to have to distinguish. A red and green apple, a Braeburn versus a Granny Smith apple. But we shouldn't have trouble distinguishing a blue from a yellow paint. Now obviously in reality, there are context clues to help people with red green color blindness distinguish what they need to. For example, when you look at the stoplight, you don't have to be able to distinguish the colors off that well because there's particular order to the colors. Or even looking at the apples for example, there's differences in their size and texture, they give you clues. The electrical wires might actually be a genuinely difficult situation for someone to find themselves in. Or the case of paint colors or of different colored clothing. The trait of red green color blindness in the pedigree that we looked at earlier, we've now characterized as an allele on the OPN1LW gene, an allele that's recessive and a loss of function. Now we noted in the pedigree that red green color blindness. Is a sex-linked trait, in this case. And that the gene OPN1LW is on the X chromosome. And based on what you know about an X-linked trait, would it even be possible for females to be affected by the C739T allele of the OPN1LW gene? Of course females could be affected by alleles of the OPN1LW gene. But because this loss of function allele is recessive, a female would need two copies of the allele to be mutated, whereas males would only need one. So, I'm curious, why is it that males are more susceptible to sex-linked traits than females? Well that actually has a lot to do with the fact that the X and the Y don't have the same genes on them. And the X chromosome is also much longer than the Y chromosome. Does that mean the X chromosome has more genes on it? It's exactly what it means. And the genes that the X chromosome has aren't actually on the Y chromosome. So is it beneficial to have two copies of the X? Yeah, in a sense it is. I mean all your other autosomes you have two copies of, right? It's kind of like having a back up copy for a lot of the genes. In the same way that you'd have a backup copy for data on your computer. You might have it on your internal hard drive and then have a backup copy on an external hard drive. So if one crashes, you still have the other. Right but you're still not completely protected because both of the hard drives could still crash. Although it's less likely that both of them would crash than just one of them. And the same is actually true for recessive alleles on the X chromosome, in the case of males, if you only have one copy of the X. A recessive allele is really more of a dominant allele because there's no back up copy to mask up the affect of the recessive allele. So, for females, you could still be affected by the trait, but if both of your X-chromosomes had that recessive allele. Exactly. We can even see this in a trait like red-green color blindness in the general population. The fact that 8% of males have some form of red-green color blindness, while only 0.5% of females have a similar form of red-green color blindness. Well, I'm curious, are you red/green color blind? Let us know, and are you male or a female, so we can see how the distribution lines up with our class, compared to the general population. Let's move on to another trait. Dwarfism. Dwarfism describes an individual of particularly short stature as a result of slow or deficient bone growth. Now the most common type of dwarfism occurs in roughly one out of 10,000 people. Let's take a look at a fictional family with an African American background. This is Bobby. And here's a pedigree of Bobby's family with regards to the trait of dwarfism. Here you see that Bobby is unaffected by dwarfism. And neither his mom or his dad or his sister, are affected by dwarfism, either. However, he has a paternal grandmother. A paternal uncle. And two first cousins, male and female, that are affected by the trait of dwarfism. Before we explore the genetic reason behind this trait. I want you to first tell me the inheritance pattern that you see for dwarfism in this pedigree. Based on the pedigree you see here. And what you've already learned about inheritance patterns and dominance. I want you to tell me first what you think the most likely inheritance pattern is for dwarfism. Is it autosomal, sex linked, or maternal? And tell me the dominance, does it look dominant or recessive? So, hopefully you're able to see the most likely inheritance pattern is autosomal and dominant. Now, what's the reason for this? An autosomal inheritance pattern means that the alleles affecting the trait are on the autosomes, not the sex chromosomes. So, we should see both males and females affected fairly equally. So, we know it's not sex linked because we see that in our pedigree. We also know it's not maternal, because maternal means it's inherited through the mitochondria. So the mother would pass it on to all of her children, and that's not in fact what we see here. Now what about dominant? Well, it can be recessive, it most likely isn't recessive because recessive traits, affected children come from unaffected parents which is not what we see here. And we also expect the trait to skip generations which we don't see. When it's dominant we expect to see the trait in every generation, and affected parents give rise to affected children. Unlike recessive alleles, having two copies of every gene does not protect you from a dominant allele. As we learned in lesson five, having one copy of a dominant allele is enough to cause a phenotype. Now in the case of dwarfism, the most common cause is a dominant allele that causes Achondroplasia, which is inhibition in bone growth. Achondroplasia is one of the most common causes of dwarfism. So this is what normal bone growth looks like. If we take a long bone from your body, the end of it it has a particular kind of cell, here I'm outlining it in red, that actually grows and divides and then it comes into the long bone part of the bone and it provides the material that grows the bone longer over time. Now, those red cells are red, indicating that they had a particular, important protein called Fgfr3. It stands for fibroblast growth factor receptor 3. And we'll learn a bit more about it in a moment. But we'll just call it Fgfr3 for now, and as these Fgfr3 positive cells grow and divide, then they become the cells that are part of the, the physical substance of the long bone itself. So, the way the bone grows itself, essentially, is these Fgfr3 positive cells grow and divide into more cells, and that's how the bone gets longer. Now, how do bones end up a certain length, and they're not shorter or longer? Well, it turns out that this protein Fgfr3 is really important in regulating this process, in fact, signalling through Fgfr3 in a cell keeps the bone from growing too long. An active Fgfr3 protein prevents bones from growing even longer, but some mutations in the Fgfr3 gene, results in a protein that's over active. And it actually stunts the growth of bones even more, so that they can't grow as long even as they normally would. So, let's learn a bit more about this Fgfr3 protein. The Fgfr3 gene can be found on chromosome four in the human genome. Chromosome four has 186 million base pairs in it, and the Fgfr3 protein can be found near the end. The Fgfr3 gene itself consists of 17 exons spanning 15,000 base pairs, after transcription and splicing, the resulting mNRA has 2,421 nucleotides of coding region. And after translation, we'll have a protein with 806 amino acids. Remember, we just divided 2,421 by three and then subtracted one from the overall answer, because the last codon is a stop codon, which doesn't code for an amino acid, it's just empty. Now, let's actually look at one allele of this gene that's associated with Achondroplasia. One allele of the Fgfr3 gene contains a G to A, a guanine to add new mutation at position 1138 of the coding region. Now using the genetic code which we learned about in lesson three, and you can find posted in the instructor's notes on this page. I want you to determine the change expected in the amino acid sequence here. And then select the type of mutation best used to describe this A allele from the list below. Now if you have trouble answering this you want to go back and review mutations from lesson six. So, using the genetic code, we would say that this mutation is best described as a missense mutation. Because if the change is from an amino acid that would be a Glycine coded by GGG to an Arginine coded by AGG, one amino acid changed to another is considered a missense mutation. luckily I grew up in a very educated community. You know, 30 minutes away from MIT, Harvard, you know, all of the Ivy Leagues in Boston. and I think that's, that speaks a lot to kids and their value, have value system, but their manners and so forth. Sure. So, I don't remember getting teased too much. I'm sure I did, and how much of that I have sort of put under the surface. Mm-hm. And forgotten about but I, I don't, I have a tougher time even today when I'm in an inner city environment where my the people surrounding me don't have the same etiquette, and don't have the same education, the same exposure. And that's really where I struggle more than where I grew up in a suburb of Boston. well, to get a bit more of that, sort of, educated thought and idea I want you to tell us you know, as a medical condition of, of dwarfism, what is, what do you know is the cause of shorter stature and, in particular, in your case what is the what is the cause of this. Well remember there are over 200 different types of dwarfism. Achondroplasia being the most common. So if you were to meet another little person in your life, most likely they'll have a Achondroplasia, so I can only really speak to Achondroplasia. it is a dominant gene. It is also a mutation. So what that means is an individual can have achondroplasia for two reasons. One, would be their parents have it and it's been inherited, as it was with my children. The other would be it's a genetic mutation which is a complete unexplained event. Which is what it was for me. Sure. Yeah. Are you familiar with the gene that is actually mutated in most cases of Achondroplasia? The FR? The FGFR3 Gene. That's it. That's what I am. Okay. There's a reason I don't teach science. I'm an English and drama teacher and Spanish teacher. LAUGH. Not a science teacher. So yes very familiar I, I don't spend a whole lot of time conversing about it. Sure. what is really, really cool is that when the gene was discovered in 1994. Mm-hm. In 1992, the National Convention was in San Francisco, I was eight months pregnant. We had both my in laws there as well as my parents. And when we have a national convention that Little People of America puts on, a gaggle of healthcare providers fly in that have specialized or have an interest in dwarfism. And so, there'll be no less than 15 or 20 geneticists from around the country, sometimes we even have international geneticists. And we all volunteered ourselves for blood draw, when I was eight months pregnant. And they sent me home with a vile for umbilical blood, that I was, when I was going to give birth a month later. So that they could get umbi, umbilical cord blood. So I like to say we had a little bit of something that led to what the discovery of the gene two years later. Are there any advantages to having a slightly shorter structure in general. this is a very common question, and I always say to myself I've got to write it down, because I never, you know am fully prepared but, in this instance I, I did think about it some. let's start with the disadvantages because it, that's a shorter list. The grocery store is horrible. And I haven't quite figured out the best time to go. If I were not little, the best time to go clearly would be 6:30 or 7 in the morning when I'm awake because it's not crowded. But it's a very bad time for me to go when it's not crowded, because there aren't people in the aisles to turn to and say can you hand me that jar up there. So I think the compromise is more like 10 AM, you know which fortunately because I don't work full time I can do that and I can always pretty much count on waiting no more than two or three minutes for somebody to show up in the aisle. I'm not going to go to customer service every time I need help. You get very savvy at flirting with people [LAUGH] to get what you need. So I will strike up a conversation instantly with the main motivation being that I need that can of tomatoes at the top of the counter. other disadvantages it, it really depends. it's hard to go into communities that are less educated and less mannered because we are so comfortable in, in our community which, granted, has gotten to know us on so many different levels over the last 20 years. My husband and I both are, both our careers, myself as a substitute teacher and he as a an IT guy for small businesses in our immediate area, we're very well known. only because people don't forget us. You know, it's not a comment on our personality, however, I've been told that we kind of have magnanimous personalities as well. so we get really comfortable in our environment and then when we step out to a different environment and the reaction is totally inappropriate. It's, it's, it's a slap in the face. It's a reminder. Can you, I mean if you're comfortable, can you give us an example of a negative reaction that you experienced. Actually I can have, I can give you two. And, and, and they're a little bit different. one of them was pure ignorance. There's nothing more upsetting to me than to be in an environment where it's the adults that are grabbing the children and saying look at the midget. Come here, come here Franky, look at the midget. I cannot believe that in this day of age that's still happening, but when I go into inner city environments, into grocery stores. You know, grocery stores are really harsh places for me to be. Not only because of the physical thing but you're trapped. You know, you're in a grocery store line, and you can't go anywhere, and you've got kids with their fingers right five feet away from you. And you're trapped. So that is definitely you know, hard. The other example of ignorance was an educated ignorance if I dare say. The five of us were on our bikes in San Francisco by the Palace of Fine Arts. We have been riding our bikes around. And we rode in front of a tour bus, from, tourists from another country. We can pretty much assure you that when we go by a tour bus of, a group of tourists from other countries, those video cameras are trained on us like snipers. And my husband has gotten to the point, he's a very, very patient man. But he will walk right up to the camera and say, you will delete that picture. He gets very upset. I imagine. Imagine having 50 of them on your family. You feel like there are snipers on you. Let's go back to some of the, some of, some of the advantages. Oh yeah. Ha! [LAUGH] Cause that's a longer list. It really is. advantages. Let's see. Well, here's a hybrid. Why don't we do the hybrid first. Okay. The spotlight is always on. Fair enough. So you can be entertaining, and the life of the party. And everyone wants to talk to you. You can get a a a special spot on Tales From The Genome. People remember me, that's kind of the spotlight too, but if I want to jog somebody's memory over the phone, and I'll say, hey this is Jenny Foos, your little customer. Oh yes, how are you. [LAUGH] So I get the information quicker. It's an identifier. Yeah. when I get tickets to a show the tickets, I can say I need good tickets and I get good tickets. Right. so that's an advantage. we went camping recently, and I was able to stand up in my tent, and change my clothes, where as the average sized friends could not. I definitely encountered that problem before. Yeah. anything what about airplanes. Oh yes, airplane travel is, I would argue more comfortable for me, but the difference is, is that my feet are dangling. Look at right now and yours are not. So mine are going to maybe go to sleep. But, when I've gone on a long flight, if there happens to be an empty seat next to mine, I can actually lay down. [LAUGH] The flight attendants don't like it much, but I can. So as bones grow, the cells that are growing inside the bone are FGFR3-positive cells. What this means? If we zoomed in really close is that the cells in red, if we look very close up, here is the cell membrane. This red protein here is the FGFR3 protein. We have two proteins right here, and they're embedded in the membrane. As you can imagine, proteins in the membrane are important, because they're what communicate from the outside world to the inside world. Now if there are actually two FGFR3 proteins like this, they're considered inactive. Nothing is happening Because the only way the FGFR3 protein can do anything is if it's bound to it's favorite partner protein FGF3. The R in FGFR3 stands for Receptor, because it receives the signal from FGF3. It's like it's serving as a docking platform. So these two FGFR3 proteins can get close together. And once they're close together, then there's a signal that's sent to slow down bone growth. So normally these cells in red, that are FGRF3 positive are growing and dividing and contributing to the cells in the long bone, helping it to grow longer. But there is a signal that comes from the environment that is transmitted through the FGRF3 protein. So that whenever the FGF3 protein is around, it's a signal that says, whoa, slow down, guys. Slow down your bone growth. Now, what happens in the case of the G1138A mutation? The misense mutation is that right here in this region with printing spans across the cell membrane that's where the amino acid changes happen. And now this FGFR3 protein doesn't have to wait for FGF3. It can form this pair what we call a dimerization. Dimer di meaning two here. Even when there's no protein partner to facilitate the interaction. Right? We don't see that yellow protein here connecting the two FGFR3s. So this means we're going to slow down bone growth like we normally would, but now its going to happen even when the FGF3 isn't around. So the net effect are bones that grow shorter than they normally would. Because the FGF3 protein is going to be slowing bone growth down, even when the FGF3 isn't around. It means that this protein is sort of always on now. Overall, this results in a form of short limb dwarfism called achondroplasia. If you want to know where the name comes from, a chondrocyte is what we call a bone cell a chondrocyte. So the chondro part is what we're referring to a bone here. Plasia means growth, so chondroplasia means bone growth and achondroplasia means the absence or the loss of so The loss of bone growth. And that's what dwarfism is, in this sense. A person with achondroplasia will have shorter limbs. And overall, be a shorter person with a distinctive facial structure also due to altered bone development of the skull. So would you categorize this allele here, the G1138A allele. As a loss-of-function, a gain-of-function, or no change in function allele. An overactive FGFR3, as we have here with our G1138 mutation retains the same function and gains even more of it. So we would call this a gain-of-function allele. So the FGFR3 mutation is enough to cause smaller bones, but, would two alleles cause even smaller bones in the smaller person? That's a really good question. It turns out that the effects of a single allele are so significant that if you have two copies of the homozygous dominant condition, it would actually be lethal. Because it, the effects would be so severe and cause even bigger defects in bone cells and elsewhere. Do you mean lethal during prenatal development lethal? Yeah. In the case of a chondroplasia, you can actually be born as a homozygous dominant. But you don't live for very long after. So all little people with achondroplasia are heterozygous for the FGFR3 mutation. And that means if they mate with an individual of average size who doesn't have the FGFR3 mutation, there's a 50% chance that they, themselves will have a little person as a child. And if they have children with somebody with the FGFR3 mutation, they have a 25% chance of having a child with a homozygous combination, which is lethal. Now that's a lot to think about. I'm curious what you think you would do if you knew that there was a 50% chance that you would have a little person as a child. But, what if you knew that there was a 25% chance that you would have a child that may die as an infant. Having this information, being able to know this information up front, right when, at the beginning of your pregnancy early on, is that something that's important to you in the process? Was that something you were happy to know about, or do you wish you kind of, couldn't find out maybe until later? I'm going to skirt that a little bit and I'm going to talk about it in third person because it's such a personal choice. Sure. I'm going to tell you that I have friends that have fallen into all of these different categories. I have one friend that buried three babies in five years because they kept coming up with that 25% chance. I have one friend who has two average size children. So they came up with that 25, the other 25% twice. and I have friends that have said, oh, we'll never get pregnant, because we don't want a dwarf child. We went through so much ourselves, we would never want that for our, our child. I have friends that say, I'm scared to death of having an average sized child, which I don't understand because I teach high school. You know, that is not a big deal, and I have these great friends in LA, whose son, as I just told you, is 6 foot 4. so, you know, this, this choice that we are now given, or the access to this technology, maybe. Is, is very, very powerful. I'm going to tell you a quick story. We, we had a regional conference in Los Angeles about a year ago. Three women all in their 20s all kind of grew up together by default. I mean not necessarily in the same town. But because they're been Little People of America members all of their lives. All pregnant. Now, they all have had the testing. One of them did not want to have the testing, for religious reasons. But far along into the pregnancy decided, I don't want to go through baby showers, I don't want to decorate a nursery, unless, there's a reason to. So it's not going to change anything about the pregnancy. I'm going to go through the pregnancy but I need to know. And so she knew she was carrying a double dominant. And there she was with a smile on her face with the other two women. One of whom had already buried a double dominant and was on her second try and knew that, that one, I believe was going to be average size. And then the third young woman knew that she was having a heterozygous dwarf and there they were all happy and talking, and I just, the strength that the girl had that knew that she had a double dominant inside of her, was just amazing. It gets a little bit more sad, so, the baby lived a few hours. They waited the three months that they were told to wait. They got pregnant again. And again, had a double dominant. And, and kept it. And that's their own choice, and aren't we lucky in this country that we have choices. Right. Knowing everything you know now as yourself and with the current technologies even maybe thinking about the possible advances in technologies that we'll have in the future in your lifetime or even possibly, you know, beyond that, would you change, would you choose to be different? And sort of as a variation of that, you know if you could choose this for your children how, would you? I think, like my, my first answer is we call it the magic pill. You know if you had been able to take the magic pill to not be a dwarf. And I think my response to that magic pill would have been different depending on what decade of my life you were asking about. I would most likely have taken that magic pill in middle school and probably high school. prior to that I don't think I really cared. I was just a kid. I've never faced out right discrimination in my job at Hunts. So I think that magic pill may have been between middle and high school, but after that you kind of get awfully comfortable in your skin. Is do you think it's harder to be born disabled or to become disabled later on in your life. And the people that are really on it and thinking have actually, it blows my mind when they give me the answer that I'm looking for. Which is this. Most definitely it's harder to become disabled because something has been taken away from you. With the exception perhaps of being blind or deaf. Because if you become blind later in life you, you know what things look like. So you can reference that when you can no longer see them. If you become deaf later in life, you've learned how to talk. You can talk. And I just, I just want to kiss em when they give me that answer. because they truly are thinking about it. And so when I think about our soldiers that come home disabled I really feel for them. Especially soldiers who were big, strong. Buff guys and gals and they no longer are. And that, and I feel for them. And I'm so proud of them when they turn that around and they become the wounded warriors or the wheelchair rugby teams or something that they're putting that, energy and they're channeling it into a different realm, a positive realm. What, what do you say to people who have their own struggles and particularly with your perspective, how would you tell them to, to what's the best way to handle their struggle? This is probably trademarked, but it does get better. [LAUGH] It's a catchy phrase. Just as various mutations can generally fall into two categories of inheritance, either dominant or recessive, they can also fall into two categories as a loss-of-function or gain-of-function. We find that the mutation causing red green colorblindness was recessive and loss-of-function, and that the mutation causing achondroplasia or dwarfism Is a dominant gain of function. But gain of functions are not always dominant. And loss of function are not always recessive. It all depends on the molecular phenotype of the mutation. So the next two traits we're going to discuss will be examples of these other two possibilities. Let's move on to another trait. Osteogenesis Imperfecta, OI. Sometimes known as Brittle Bone Disease. Now, people with OI are born with defective connective tissue. Or sometimes without the ability to make it. Usually because of a deficiency in collagen. You may have heard of collagen before maybe even in commercials or something like that but when we talk about collagen it's a huge and important structural protein in your cells. It's kind of what makes your skin so pliable and durable all at the same time, it serves many important structural purposes. In the case of Osteogenesis Imperfecta it doesn't work the way it normally should. Now the incidence of OI is about one in every 20,000 live births. Let's take a look at our fictional individual Sadie who has a European American background. And here is a fictional pedigree of Sadie's family. Here we see that Sadie is, is not affected by OI, but her brother, her mother, her maternal uncle and her maternal grandmother are all affected by Osteogenesis Imperfecta. Now just like we've done for the last two traits before we get into the genetic cause here, first I want you to tell me a little bit about the inheritance pattern of OI. Basing on the pedigree shown here, what you've learned about inheritance patterns, I want you to tell me if you think that this trait resembles an autosomal, sex linked or maternal inheritance pattern. And then I want you to identify whether or not you think it's dominant, or recessive. If you have any trouble answering this, you can go back and check out lesson five where we first learned about pedigrees and this kind of dominance. Most likely this trait is autosomal and dominant. Now how do we know this? Well, we're guessing autosomal in part because both males and females are affected equally and one mother doesn't have all affected offspring. This rules out sex-linked and maternal. And as far as dominance is concerned, we see the trait in every generation and affected parents have affected offspring. This is typical of a dominant trait. Bones rely on connective tissue made of proteins like collagen, to remain strong and resistant to fractures. And, mutations that affect the way collagen coils into a triple helix, can affect the strength and integrity of bones in such a way that causes osteogenesis imperfecta, or brittle bone disease. The gene that codes for the Alpha one component of type one collagen is COL1A1 and it's essential for building the collagen fibers, like you see here. Normally in the form of a triple helix. If you follow the colors closely, you can see the red spiralling around the structure and the green and the blue doing the same thing. The COL1A1 gene can be found on chromosome 17 in the human genome. Chromosome 17 is about 81,000,000 base pairs long and the COL1A1 gene can be found about halfway down. The COL1A1 gene spans 51 exons and over 18,000 base pairs of DNA. After transcription and splicing, the mRNA has 4,395 nucleotides of coding region between the start and stop codons. And after translation, we get a protein with 1,464 amino acids. Remember, we just divided 4,395 by three, and subtracted one because this last codon doesn't code for an amino acid. The stock codon is just empty. Now most of the amino acids in the collagen molecule itself are glycine. Because this is actually what allows the collagen to form that beautiful triple helix we solve that's sort of turning back on itself. A lot of glycines make that possible. So, any allele that might disrupt the glycines in these positions are associated many times with Osteogenesis Imperfecta. But one mutation of the COL1A1 gene contains a G to T, a guanine to thymine mutation at position 1245 of the coding region. Now, using the genetic code, which we learned about in lesson three, and that you can find in the instructor's notes on this page, I want you to determine the expected amino acid change from the top to the bottom sequence. And then select the type of mutation that best categorizes this change to the T allele. If you have any trouble answering this, you might want to go back and review mutations from lesson six. So the best categorization on mismutation would be a missense mutation. And that's because the GGC codes for a glycine which we said was important in the structural formula to get that triple helix. And the change to a TGC changes the glycine to a cystine and any amino acid change to another is considered a missense mutation. The change in amino acid 415 from a glycine to a cystein, significantly affects the way the collagen protein forms a triple helix, which significantly reduces the structural integrity of bones. Now without a fully functioning collagen protein, you're at a much higher risk for bone fractures. For example, there was an individual, a real person that had the mutation, the very mutation we just got done talking about. That person suffered more than 270 bone fractures over a period of 16 years that resulted in severe skeletal deformity. Now, remember though, not everyone with Osteogenesis Imperfecta has a mutation that severe. Collagen proteins normally stick together in groups of three to form a triple helix. Now this structure is so important and effective that it's the source of much of the connective tissue in your body and is by far the most abundant protein in mammals. In fact, in humans, collagen makes up about 25 to 30% of total body protein. That's 25 to 30% of who you are, is this one protein. Now the very nature of the spiral here depends on an amino acid called Glycine. The change we talked about from a couple exercises back from a glycine to a cysteine causes enough of a structural shift to weaken the triple helix significantly. If you weaken this helix you're going to weaken the very connective tissue around bones. Making them more prone to breaking. So in this scenario here, the change from glycine to cysteine that weakens the helix. Do you think this an is an example of a loss of function, a gain of function, or no change in function? A structurally deformed COL1A1 or collagen protein that's unable to maintain its normal triple helix shape and string would be resulting from a loss-of-function allele. Many message mutations causing osteogenesis imperfecta, are good examples of loss of function alleles that are actually dominant. Now, living with OI isn't easy, even for the people that love and support them. For example, some individuals have been falsely accused of physical abuse. Because they aren't aware that the individual suffers from OI. And that they're at a much higher risk for bone fractures. Now currently there's no cure for OI. So most therapies and treatments essentially try to improve mobility and reduce the risk of fracture. And like the Achondroplasia example, the function of collagen is so important that mutant alleles are not found in homozygous condition, because it's lethal Alright, let's look at one last trait for this lesson. Sickle Cell Anemia. People with Sickle Cell Anemia have a haemoglobin protein that changes the shape of red blood cells and reduces the flow of oxygen in the body. The lack of oxygen delivery caused by the anemia can be quite painful. Now in the United States, about one in 5,000 people have Sickle Cell Anemia. But in some regions of Subsaharan Africa, there are actually 1 in 50 people. Let's bring back our fictional family with an African American background, a pedigree of Bobby and his family. It shows here that Bobby has an affected cousin. And an affected great grandparent on his father's side. Now just like the other traits, before we get involved into the genetic basis, I want you to tell me a little bit more about the inheritance patterns that you see here. I want you to tell me if the inheritance pattern most resembles that of an autosomal, sex-linked, or maternal trait. And also try to decide if the trade appears to be more dominant or recessive. So how did we get this answer? Now, the pattern here shows that it's most likely autosomal and not sex-linked or maternal, because we see an even number of males and females affected here, only 1 to 1. We don't see only males or only females. And it can't be maternal because if we have an affected child, they should all be affected and the mother would also be affected. So this is most likely an autosomal inheritance pattern. And it's most likely recessive, because the trait skips generations. And unaffected parents give rise to affected offspring. If it were dominant, it would be the other way around where we would have affected parents, with affected offspring, and the trait not skipping generations. Your red blood cells are the life givers. They carry oxygen to all the nooks and crannies of your body in exchange of the waste product carbon dioxide. Now hemoglobin is the actual protein molecule responsible for directly binding the oxygen inside your red blood cells. And if we exclude water, hemoglobin makes up over 95% of all the cellular protein inside red blood cells. Now hemoglobin itself is actually a superstructure of multiple proteins. And mutations in any one of the individual protein sub-units has the potential to cause serious problems. Affecting one of the most fundamental processes necessary for survival. The supply of oxygen. One of the most important proteins, hemoglobin beta is encoded by the HBB gene. Now in humans, HBB can be found on the 11th chromosome in the human genome. Now, chromosome 11 is about 134 million base pairs long and the HBB gene can be found somewhere close to the end of it. Now the HBB gene itself consists of three exons spanning 1,700 base pairs of DNA. This is actually kind of small in comparison with some of the other genes we've looked at. After transcription and splicing, the resulting mRNA has 444 nucleotides of coding region between the start and stop codons. And after translation, we get a protein with 147 amino acids. Remember we just divided 444 by 3, the number of nucleotides in a codon. And then subtracted that number by 1 to get 147 because the last stop codon doesn't have an amino acid, it's just empty. Now as you can imagine this HBB protein, haemoglobin beta is pretty important and so that any changes could have a drastic effect on the overall function of the protein. There was one quite famous allele of the HBB gene that ultimately changes the structure of hemoglobin and the red blood cell, thus causing sickle cell anemia. Now this particular allele contains an A to T mutation, an adenine to thymine mutation, at position 20 of the coding region. So using the genetic code that we learned about in lesson three and which you can find in the instructor's notes on this page. I want you to determine the change in the expected amino acid sequence from the adenine to the thymine position, and then select the type of mutation that's best used to describe the T-allele from the list here. If you have any trouble answering this, just review mutations from lesson six. Okay, again, this is an example of a missense mutation. And the reason is because we change from one amino acid, glutamate to a new and different amino acid, valine. This is defined as a missense mutation. The change in amino acid seven from a glutamate to a valine has the effect of altering the way hemoglobin proteins interact with other hemoglobin proteins. And as a result, the hemoglobin molecules begin to stack together in a really long and abnormal fashion. And this elongated stacking causes the red blood cell to sort of stretch out into this sickle-like shape. These abnormally shaped red blood cells, can't fit in the smallest vessels of your body so they get stuck, and they block blood flow, limiting oxygen exchange, and causing the event that's referred to as a crisis. Hi, I am Kagure Kabue. I am from Kenya originally, but I live in San Francisco now. And I lived in an area that had a high prevalence for sickle cell anaemia. In Kenya, is Sickle cell anaemia a common trait? I don't know how common it is, but I do know of people who've had it, or who have it. Yeah, and what are the symptoms of sickle cell anaemia, or what was it like for these people that you know of who, who've had it? It was something that I didn't know was happening until they told me themselves. Mm-hm. with one person, I always thought to myself that she looked a little sickly sometimes. But, I just thought that maybe she had a cold. Mm-hm. But, it turns out that she had, or has sickle cell anaemia. Mm-hm, is it is it a big deal? I mean, does it seriously affect their lives? I'm not sure. I'm not sure it does. I would imagine it does, but she's very private with it and so I don't know how much it affected her. All in all, she seemed to function normally. or, you know, she would show up to class and go through everything that we would go through. And then, I'd think to myself, oh she's sick again? Mm-hm, is any one known in your family, though who has ever been affected by sickle cell anaemia? No. That you know. No, not in my family. Do you know if you're a carrier for sickle cell anaemia? I do know that and I'm not. That's great. does that factor net in people's decisions about you know, children? Do people worry about that? having sickle cell anaemia. I, I would imagine that in a family where it was common, where it had been running through the family that they might consider it. But I've never heard of people getting that test, because with some people they know it's not, it's more common in some tribes than it is in others. Mm-hm. And so I think in a tribe like mine where it rarely happens I don't see why. I don't think they'd factor in. Mm-hm. Sickle cell anaemia or whether they were carriers or not into who they would marry. Do you know of the treatment for sickle cell anaemia? I mean for people who have it in Kenya? Is it generally accessible? I mean is it able? I mean, do people know about it, is it something that's able to be treated in general for, for most people? So in a country like Kenya with a rural population that may be less literate. Mm-hm. They would be less likely to know about treatment options, than a population that was more, more urban or more literate. Mm-hm. Not necessarily the same thing but more literate. Mm-hm. They would know more and would have access to treatment. So it depends the region as well. Hemoglobin molecules normally stick together and interact with each other and they're packed into a very small space to carry lots of oxygen, like you see on the left. We call this normal hemoglobin data, we call it the HbA allele. But the glutamate to valine mutation which we refer to as the HBS allele, causes the overall hemoglobin molecule to stick together more than it normally does. And this abnormal interaction of sticking together more than it normally does, leads to these elongated stretches of hemoglobin molecules. This has the effect of altering the shape of the red blood cell from this sort of more oval rounded shape. To this elongated sickle shape here. So in this scenario do you think that the HbS allele, the mutant allele is an example of a loss of function, a gain of function, or a no change in function allele? This would be an example of a gain-of-function mutation because the hemoglobin-beta, or the HBB protein, normally interacts with the other HBB proteins. In this case, it's interacting with them even more so. It's binding to them even more tightly, so that it forms these elongated stretches, which then misshapes the cell. It's therefore gained a function. The famous sickle cell allele that causes sickle cell anemia is a good example of a recessive allele that's actually gain-of-function. Now, it seems that there's a really big negative effect, especially when it happens in homozygous condition, so why would we find it at such high frequencies in the African populations if it only has a negative effect? Kagure, why is Sickle cell anemia en, endemic to regions like Kenya and, and Africa? So, it's higher in the region because it provides resistance, some resistance to malaria. I see. So malaria is a common sickness? Yes, definitely. Definitely. I've had malaria, everyone else in my family has had malaria too. Really? What's it like to have malaria? you, malaria is, like the flu. Mm-hm. I've never had the flu, but from what people describe the flu as. Mm-hm. You get dizzy, you get nauseous, you're, you get achy joints. when I had malaria, I remember being very dizzy, dizzy enough that the floor seemed very far away and like it was teetering. And you're just kind of out. You get a fever. Mm-hm. The usual. And how does the, and I mean, how does malaria spread? Malaria is spread through mosquitoes. Through mosquitoes. Mm-hm. And so, we, the best way to combat that then is just like, bug spray or bug nets or something? So, the best way would be, you don't want to have pools of water, stagnant water, outside your home. Mm-hm. because they're attracted to that. So if you had a drum of water just sitting outside your window. You going to get a bunch of mosquitoes just hanging out waiting for nighttime, or whenever. you also want to have a mesh, screens on your windows and doors, so that when you do need to open your windows, bugs can't get in. And then another way, if you can't do all of that, is you need to have mosquito nets over your beds. At night because that's the time when. Mm-hm. They're likely to strike when you're just kind of lying there and still. Wow so you're pretty sure most people are sure that when they get malaria is because you know mosquito bit them at some point, probably. Yes. And so it's pretty common. You've had it, you said everyone in your family's had it? Right. Have you, do people get it multiple times? Yes. Say, i, is there treatment for it? There is treatment for malaria. You go to the hospital or clinic or your doctor and you get medication. I'm not sure what it was exactly. I think you take it for granted because it's so common. Mm-hm. You just go in and they prescribe you something. And you get better. How long does it take to get better? I know people who go back to work or to school after three days. And then I know people who'll stay home sick for a few weeks. It just depends on the person and how early you caught it as well. I tend to catch mine early because my stomach hurts and then, for me that's the main symptom and then I kind of ignore that. Mm-hm. Whereas with others if they're just feeling a little under the weather, they'll think to themselves I'm just a little tired, I'll go home. So you mention that the reason sickle cell anemia is higher in Kenya is because it provides some resistance to malaria, but if you have one allele for, the sickle cell how exactly does it provide resistance? So I think what it is when you have sickle cell anemia is that your red blood cells are crescent shaped. Mm-hm. And this makes it makes some resistant to infection from the parasite. I see so it's sort of trade off then. I mean sickle cell anemia doesn't sound like a good thing but neither's malaria [LAUGH]. And. True. So if it provides some advantage then that's probably why it's more prevalent in the region. Yeah, I think that's true. But then, isn't there something about sickle cell anemia where you don't live past a certain, where more people with sickle cell anemia will not live past a certain age. And so in that way with malaria you can get treatment and live to be 80 and then with sickle cell anemia, it, you're more likely to have a shorter lifespan. That's a really good point. So the while if you have sickle cell anemia, you have to have two copies of the allele to have sickle cell. If you're just a carrier, you have one copy, which provides resistance against malaria too, but you don't have any of the symptoms of anemia. But you raise a really interesting point though, that actually our treatment of malaria means that you don't, there's no natural selection happening as much. Or there's not as much happening because we don't, you don't need the sickle cell to protect you from malaria as much because now we have drugs right. So you're not going to die from malaria as frequently when we have drugs. And now that means that okay, the sickle cell allele actually isn't being naturally selected for anymore. So although we have drugs to treat malaria and help you get better, sickle cell anemia, the alleles still exist but actually it's not being selected for anymore. But it's so prevalent in the region, but as you move away from regions that are stricken with malaria, you don't see the sickle cell allele. At all,really. if you could give advice to somebody who either is going to a region with malaria, or is, you know, grown up in a region and has just gotten malaria for the first time, do you have any advice what to do when you get malaria? Well, first of all, for someone going to an area that has malaria, I would say [LAUGH] you need to go get yeah, anti-malaria tells, you want to go. You want to be prepared because you probably don't have resistance to the parasite yet. And so it's important to go to a travel clinic or wherever, and get. Mm-hm. Something anti-malaria pills, for someone whose having it for the first time. See a doctor, don't take chances, don't let stay too long because it can kill you. and that's pretty much it. Don't freak out, there's treatment. Malaria is a disease that's spread by mosquitoes and involves a parasite that grows inside red blood cells. Now the parasite that causes malaria called plasmodium is able to easily infect normally shaped red blood cells. But the sickle shaped cells are harder for the parasite to infect. And even when it does infect it, the cell bursts open before the plasmodium has finished its life cycle. Having even one copy of the sickle cell mutation, or the HbS allele, increases resistance to malaria, because a few of the cells are going to be more sickle shape. Thus providing at least a little bit of resistance to plasmodium infection. So although the HbS allele was recessive for sickle cell anemia, it's actually dominant with regards to malaria resistance. This means that an individual allele, a single allele could be dominant or recessive depending on which trait you're looking at. I mean, think about it. We have one allele, the HbS allele. But there are two different traits. We can either think about the sickle cell anemia trait. Or malaria resistance trait. In one case this allele is recessive because you need two copies before you really see the effect. But in the case of malaria resistance only one copy is enough to resist plasmodium infection, making it a dominant allele. Hopefully this adds another layer of complexity. To how we've been thinking about single, individual alleles. Remember, one allele can have an effect on lots of traits. So in this scenario, if we have no copies of the HbS allele, we're going to be more susceptible to plasmodium infection and malaria. One copy makes you more resistant to malaria, but may give you mild symptoms of anemia from some limited sickling of cells. But two copies of the HbS allele would result in full sickle cell anemia, which typically can reduce a person's lifespan and even cause death during childhood. So in an area plagued by malaria, like Sub-Saharan Africa, which genotype do you think would have the greatest fitness, or the greatest probability of survival? HbA HbA, HbA HbS, or HbS HbS Only the heterozygous genotype offers the best of both worlds. A partial resistance to malaria and no severe clinical symptoms of sickle cell anemia. Either the homozygous genotypes would result in a higher likelihood of death. Either from susceptibility to malaria, or a more severe syndrome of sickle cell anemia. The heterozygote here has the advantage. So the normal allele makes you susceptible to malaria, but the mutant allele deforms your red blood cells and gives you Sickle Cell Anemia. Neither one of those sounds like a good option. It's true, but the compromise is actually having one of each. A little resistance to malaria and minimal symptoms of anemia. So being heterozygous gives you the advantage. Exactly. And that's exactly what geneticists call it. The heterozygote advantage. So, we, ideally, we all want one of each. Well, it really depends on where you live. You tell me. Which of the following genotypes do you think would be most advantageous if you lived in a region without malaria? Without the natural selection of Malaria to act on the hemoglobin gene, then the homozygous normal or homozygous HbA condition, will have the advantage because there is no risk of sickle cell of anemia and no risk of passing it down to your children. The reason is sickle cell anemia is some frequent in subsaharan Africa is because the allele makes the person partially resistant to malaria which is endemic to the region. Now if we move to another region like North America, where there isn't a prevalence of malaria, we've now changed the selection pressure and the sickle cell allele is deleted out over over time so that it occurs at a much lower frequency. You recall from just a couple of exercises back, that the homozygous sickle cell allele condition only happens about 1 in 5000 people in North American, in the United States, whereas roughly 1 in 50 in certain parts of sub-saharan Africa are affected by sickle cell anemia. This has everything to do with the heterozygote having an advantage in malaria stricken Africa. So, obviously understanding how and why certain alleles exist and cause traits in a population, is a detailed venture that requires a lot of investigation. There's actually a great website out there to help. Its called OMIM, or Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man. OMIM is a database that catalogues all the known diseases with the genetic component. And when possible, links them to the relevant genes in the human genome, and provides references for further research and tools for genomic analysis of a catalogued gene. You can see here the entry for sickle cell anemia, which has a very large page that has a huge description of the disease, tons of published research about it. And even gets a detailed description of the alleles the cause the various phenotypes. So we can pick any disease that you know that has a genetic component like Cystic Fibrosis. And you can search and find information about the disease, as well as the genetic variations that are known to cause it. If you're curious about other diseases, you should check them out in the OMIM database. There'll be a link to it in the Instructor's notes of this page. I don't have any of the traits we've talked about in this lesson, but I'm not sure if I'm a carrier. Well, there're a lot of recessive traits out there that you could be a carrier for that, we just haven't even had time to talk about. Like hemophilia, phenylketonuria, Tay-Sachs disease and many more. How would somebody like myself, or somebody else find out if they had any of these? Well, you'd actually have to be tested for each of these conditions individually. But there are genetic reports from companies like 23andMe and Counsel that provide information on carrier status for many of these traits. So if you're comfortable, and if you know, why don't you tell us if you have any monogenic traits. Have you enjoyed lesson eight and learning about all these different traits like achondroplasia, sickle cell anemia, red green colorblindness, and osteogenesis imperfecta. It's time for you to fill in the concept map, fill in the blanks using words from the word bank that you see here. Go ahead and see how you do. Okay. Hopefully you learned a whole lot in this lesson and you had no real trouble filling out this concept map. Lets actually start here in the center, monogenic traits. And we'll just say that they're caused by alleles in single genes. And we learned about alleles and genes more in lessons 3 and 3 so if you want to refresher, you can go back there. Well lets take the traits in the order that we discussed them in the lesson. A monogenic trait, one example is red-green color blindness, which is inherited and caused by an x-linked allele. The gene is located on the x chromosome. And we know that it is something and something. Most likely from the given word bank here we're looking for words like Gain-of-function and Loss-of-function and Dominant or Recessive. But the question is, which one goes in which box? Well, it, whichever one in this box, it has in common with Osteogenesis Imperfecta. So let's go down this route. Osteogenesis Imperfecta is inherited and caused by an Autosomal allele. Right. It's not on a sex chromosome, it's on an autosome. Now, osteogenesis Imperfecta was dominant, but loss of function. And red-green color blindness was recessive and loss of function. The one thing they have in common is the fact that the allele was loss of function. So we know that belongs in that box there, this means for red-green color blindness, recessive belongs in this box. Just what it has in common with sickle cell anemia. And we know that if something is recessive, then in its heterozygous state, the individual would be unaffected and only when the individual's homozygous, are they actually affected. It was also true for sickle cell anemia, which is inherited and caused by an autosome allele. Not on the sex chromosome, but on the autosome. Sickle cell anemia is recessive but it gains a function. And sickle cell anemia has this property in common achondroplasia. Which is also inherited and caused by an autosomal allele. The allele that cases achondroplasia is gain a function and dominant. It shares this dominant status with osteogenesis imperfecta even though osteogenesis imperfecta was a loss of function allele. Now dominant alleles If they're heterozygous, then the individual is affected. And in these particular cases, as is true for some other dominant traits, the homzygous version is actually lethal. In this lesson, we've learned about four really interesting traits, and the concepts we've discussed can actually be summarized into four main points. Point one, variations in single genes are responsible for many different kinds of traits. Point two, mutations can be either loss of function or gain of function alleles. That are either dominant or recessive, depending on the molecular phenotype. Point three, an individual mutation can be dominant or recessive depending on the trade perspective from which we're viewing it. And, point four, knowing your carrier status for a genetic trait or disease, can be a very personal decision. Hey. Although the human body is really complex, we can learn a lot about it by analyzing individual pieces or genes and seeing what the overall outcome is. Okay but what happens if a single trait is affected by more than just a single gene? Well, that means we're going to have to dig a lot deeper, and we're going to have to determine exactly how genes are related to each other as well as to the traits that they influence. In the next lesson we're going to learn about traits that are regulated by multiple genes. Hey, Matt? What's up? So I've been looking through this genome, and I'm looking for a single gene that affects some of the complex traits. Like, I don't know, depression, or intelligence, maybe even schizophrenia. Well Lauren, although we learned in the last lesson that there are traits that can be influenced or even completely controlled by changes in indvidual genes. Most traits don't work like that and in fact I think it's time that we turned out focus to understanding the genetic basis for complex traits. While some traits, like the ones we talked about in the last lesson, can be explained by the alteration of a single gene, most traits are actually complex. You have over 20,000 genes in your genome and they're all working together. Your environment matters, too. What you eat, where you live, your daily activities. And most of the traits that you mentioned, Lauren, are actually complex and influenced by both genetic and environmental factors. So for us to understand how both these sides contribute to a trait, we'll have to come up with some unique tools. We're going to jump right in in just a second with the trait that affects people all over the world. Risk for breast cancer. Also, don't forget about your concept map. I want you to print this out and fill out the blanks as we go along. And as always, you'll have a chance to see what you learned from this at the end of the lesson. Most Traits have a distribution in a population, or they exist on a Spectrum. This is what we would call a Normal Distribution or a Bell Curve, looking at the shape. It looks like a dome-shaped bell. Let's imagine that this the Risk distribution curve for Breast Cancer in a population of women. What this means is that we took a population of women, let's say in the United States or elsewhere. And we tally each individual's risk for breast cancer. And then after tallying everything up we put it in this graph here. On the horizontal, or X axis, we have the risk of breast cancer, which is measured as a probability or a percent. And the vertical axis, or the Y axis here, shows how many women have that particular risk. For example, in this particular normal distribution, the most number of women have a breast cancer risk of about 12%. You can see the height of the bell curve is here. About 30% of women have a 12% risk of breast cancer. This number right in the middle, the average, this means that 12% of women develop breast cancer during their lifetime. Another way to say this, is that the average woman has about a 12% risk for developing breast cancer. This is how we can turn population data into a risk assessment for an individual person. As the bell curve indicates, most women's risks will be close to the average of 12%. And as you get farther away from the middle, fewer and fewer will have an average risk. The women down here will have a lower risk of developing breast cancer. And the women over here will have a higher risk of developing breast cancer. But as you can see, most women fall into the category near the average risk. Now if you're in the math or statistics, you might know that statistics provides a convenient way to group probabilities like this through a calculation of something called the standard deviation. We're not going to go into this here but you can learn more about it in lesson six. Of the statistics course offered here on the Audacity website coinstructed by Katie Cormanick. So without knowing anything about a woman or her genetics or her environment, where on the risk spectrum for breast cancer would we estimate that she falls? On the lower risk end, the average risk middle or the high risk end? Okay, this was not meant to be a trick question. Since most women will fall near the middle of the risk spectrum, without knowing anything about her, our best guess is that she's going to be close to average risk. This is the same kind of decision medical professionals all across the country are faced with when they have limited information on a patient. They look at the data, and they make an assessment accordingly. As they get more information, whether from the genes or the environment that may the influence and push that individual to have a lower risk, or a higher risk. I'm Carole Kushnir. I'm from California and I'm here representing being identified with the BRCA2 Mutation. tyk can you tell us a little bit more what, what is the BRCA2 mutation you have and what does it mean? Well I have the one mutation is. that was tested and reported is, 6 1 7 4 delT and it is a pretty common mutation in Ashkenazi Jewish people. And an uncle of mine is also, has the same mutation. And my cousin, his daughter. When did you find out you had the mutation? I found out in early 2010. Okay. And, it was a surprise. I did the 23andMe, genetic testing and the results came back and it was. Surprising. And what did they tell you it means, what, like when you have this mutation, what does it mean, what does, for you, for an individual. Well, the risk of breast cancer is increased compared to the general population, and the risk of ovarian cancer is increased. Did you know what those increased risks were, what those percentages were? Well, for the breast cancer risk it's between 20 and 50% risk. Although, I saw a higher number earlier when I looked recently, it seems like the risk. The number I saw changed, and for ovarian cancer, the risk is much lower but the risk is higher than in the general population. And you can also calculate the risk based on age. So compared to the general population. The risk for breast cancer at my age, at 70, is four, about 4.5 out of the 100 compared to about 2.5 out of 100 for another woman at age 70 who does not have the BRCA mutation. I see. And what did you think about this whole. Sort of probability issue, you know, the idea of a percentage I mean, I think a lot of people think genetics is going to tell them. Oh, I am or I'm not going to have this trait. What was running through your mind? A lot. [LAUGH]. I am married to a physicist who understands. Statistics. And he must have explained this to me half a dozen times. [LAUGH] And all I could focus on was the, the high number. But, of course, as you get older the risk, it changes, it varies. Assuming that there are a hundred people. Uh,100 women with the BRCA mutation, and 50 already, 50 out of 100 have already had breast cancer, then the statistics change. And I can't really explain it but um,it is daunting to think that there is. You know, double the risk of someone else my age, even if it is a low number. However, if you have the mutation there's, as far as I understand it, there's, in my particular case I'm missing the T. [LAUGH]. Mm-hm. And, the whole gene shifts. The BRCA gene is shifting and there is a mutation. And so, it's not operating correctly is, is my best understanding. During normal breast tissue development and maintenance, cells grow and divide as they do in any tissue. And as we learned about in lesson six with many other cell divisions, mutations occur all the time. Every time the DNA is copied to go into new daughter cells, there's an opportunity for new mutations to become introduced. Typically most all of these mutations are repaired or fixed so that the cells can go on performing their normal functions. And providing structure and function to an overall tissue in the breast. But if enough mutations in critical genes go unrepaired, then there's a high likelihood that cells will start growing out of control. And form the beginning of a tumor that you can see here. Now remember, mutations are going on all the time. And so your body is really constantly fighting a, a losing struggle in some sense because mutations will keep happening. And at some point, if your body isn't able to repair them all, one or two or possibly more are going to disrupt normal function. And likely lead to the initiation of tumor formation. Now, obviously there are many important proteins responsible for repairing mutations when they happen. But two that are really relevant for breast cancer are the genes called BRCA1 and BRCA2. We might call them BRCA1 and BRCA2. Carol has a mutation in BRCA2. Other women had mutations in BRCA1. Either way, mutations in either of these genes disrupt this process of mutation repair and can lead to a much higher breast cancer risk. Let's chat a bit more about BRCA1 which has been pretty well studied. The BRCA1 gene can be found on chromosome 17 in the human genome and chromosome 17 has about 81 million base pairs. And BRCA1 can be found about halfway down the link of the chromosome. The gene itself has 23 axons spanning 80,000 base pairs of DNA. After transcription and splicing, the resulting mRNA has 5,592 nucleotides of coding region between the start and stop codons. This results in a protein that has 1,863 amino acids. Now there are multiple alleles of BRCA1 that are associated with the high risk of early onset breast cancer. But one allele in particular has an insertion of a cytosine at position 5,382 of the coding region as shown right here. Using the genetic code that we learned about in lesson three, and that you can find about in the instructor's notes on this page, I want you to determine the expected change in amino acid sequence. And then select the type of mutation that you think this is best categorized as. Again, if you have trouble answering this, review mutations from lesson six. Using the genetic code, we see that an insertion of just one nucleotide pushes everything else out of frame. Here we had TCA, now we have TTC. We had TCA, now we have ATC. Sure, we changed the codon where the actual mutation occurred, but we also changed all the codons downstream of that, so this would best be described as a frameshift mutation. Now some of you may have wanted to put missense and it's true, you are changing the individual amino acids for that particular codon. But you're also changing all the amino acids down stream and so the best categorization of this kind of mutation is a framshift. Remember that when we say frameshift. It's implied that all the other codons are going to get changed, which means all the amino acids are changing as well likely. And so we going to have lot's of missense effects in the over all protein. So if we put BRCA1 in the context of how we actually get a breast tumor. The epidemiological data shows that if you have a normal BRCA1, there's about a 12% risk of having breast cancer. Whereas if you have this 5382 insertion of cytosine in the BRCA1 coating region, you end up with about a 60% risk of breast cancer. Now what's actually happening here, BRCA1 when there's a fully functional protein is able to repair DNA damage, right we said its normal function is actually maintain genetic stability in a cell and it helps to fix certain kinds of mutations. This insertion of a cytosine causes a frameshift which does change a lot if amino acids but it also probably is going to end up. With a stop codon earlier than expected which would truncate or shorten the protein and its overall function is going to be disrupted. Because it can't carry out its function of fixing these mutations inside the cell. Those mutations can persist, cause other problems, and eventually turn into a tumor. So now our risk is elevated to about 60%. So how does a BRCA1 protein normally repair mutations that it finds in. Breast tissue cells. Well you remember from lesson six, we learned that there are induced mutations that can come from many places including X-ray energy. It can actually nick the DNA backward and literally cut a DNA strand in half like this. Remember, this is bad news bears. This is like separating a chromosome. This is not good, a cell needs to fix this quickly. BRCA1 is a critical protein that's able to get these two broken strands of DNA back together again. Of course it has the help of a lot of other proteins as well. But as long as BRCA1 is functioning efficiently with all the other proteins. Then we can actually fix this mutation and get our DNA strand glued back together. So although there were other back up repair mechanisms, without a fully functioning BRCA1 the DNA has a higher chance of going unrepaired and eventually enough mutations occur, it could cause the cells to grow out of control and form a tumor, thus, your risk for breast cancer with the BRCA1 mutation. Is much higher. So based on this function for BRCA1, what would you expect, this 5382 insertion of cytosine, the frameshift mutation to be? Dominant? Or recessive? Because fixing mutations are so important, if you have even one copy of a gene from BRCA1 that doesn't work right, you're going to see that effect. And that means this allele would be dominant, not recessive, because you would see an effect only with one copy. And just like some of the other dominant alleles we've learned about. The homozygous version of this doesn't really exist for people because it's actually lethal. So if the BRCA1 mutation is dominant, then why don't all women with this mutation get breast cancer? Because I mean, didn't we learn in lesson 5 that if a person heterozygous for a dominant gene then they will in fact be affected by it? That is exactly what we learned in lesson 5. And that's not the case here because. The complex world of complex traits, is complex. Right? Some alleles, it turns out, don't always cause a phenotype because they're not what we call fully penetrant. So you're saying if you have a disease-causing allele, you might not actually have that disease? Exactly. That's exactly what penetrance is. Penetrance is the degree to which an allele causes a given trait. There are lots of examples of dominant traits that aren't actually fully penetrant. How does that happen? Well, it's complicated, as you can imagine. And it's usually because there are multiple genes controlling any given trait. And although one allele of one of those genes could have a noticeable impact on the trait. We may or may not see it depending on what the alleles are for all of the other genes. Well, how do we figure out what all these other alleles are? Well, research. Long, laborious research. For example, some research has shown us that the risk for breast cancer jumps to 60% if you have some types of these BRCA1 mutation. So, do 60% of women who have breast cancer have this mutation? That's a really good question. But, the answer's actually no. In fact, very few women who have breast cancer actually have these mutations. If we look back at our original graph of breast cancer risk where the average was 12%. Notice that a risk of 60% is way to the right of that, and only a few women have that risk, also implying that even fewer women have this particular mutation, because it's not the only contributor to breast cancer. In fact, the prevalence of BRCA1 mutations varies in different ethnic populations of the world. But in the United States, for the general population the prevalence of BRCA1 mutations affects less than 1% of the population. We've learned so far that BRCA1 exerts its main effect by aiding the DNA repair machinery in breast cells. But obviously there are a lot of other factors, both genetic and environmental that contribute to one, the overall mutation rate in a cell as well as the cell's ability to repair those mutations. Other environmental factors that generally effect DNA mutation and repair could be things like UV exposure, particularly for tissues in your skin, or cigarette smoking, particularly affecting tissues in your lungs. These can increase the chance for DNA damage. Thus making it more likely that a repair may not happen. And there are even more genetic and non-genetic factors that contribute to risk in far less well understood ways. For most women who develop breast cancer, it's due to a combination of many of these different environmental and genetic factors. Let's say that we have two women who've been analyzed for eight genetic factors associated with risk for breast cancer. At the end of the test we see that they have same alleles for each of these eight genetic factors. They both test same for each of those eight alleles and thus they have the same calculated risk for breast cancer. But one of the women goes onto develop breast cancer, whereas the other one does not. I want you to tell me how or why this is even possible. They had the same genetic makeup for these eight genetic factors. They had the same calculated genetic risk but one got breast cancer and the other one didn't. Go ahead and put your answer in the text box here. There are many ways to answer this question, and I really just wanted you to try and come up with one on your own. One possible explanation would be that, although both individuals have the same genetics for these eight factors. One individual, woman two, suffered more spontaneous mutations from her environment, while the other had fewer. This means she had more repair to do and couldn't get it done as efficiently as woman one. Another explanation could be that woman two had additional genetic factors that damaged the repair mechanisms or encouraged tumor growth or maybe woman one had genetic factors that actually helped protect her. The bottom line is these would be differences for other unknown genetic factors between the two women. Most likely the answer to this question is probably a little bit of all of these things. Okay, there's a lot of math and. Mm-hm. There's a lot of research behind those numbers but the numbers are still the numbers and I imagine, you know, it has sort of an anxiety effect on, on an individual. Or did you feel anxious or worried and what did you end up doing? Did you, did you, did it change anything for you and did you take an action? Well, I was very anxious and I called my doctor, he was away. I called another doctor and he was away. And I called a friend who works at one of those local hospitals and I said this is the situation, what do you recommend I do? And she gave me the name of a doctor, and it was confirmed, by the time I had that information it was confirmed by the doctor who had returned. So I went to see a breast oncologist and, at a very large medical center and at the same time she scheduled me to see a genetic counselor. which is recommended, when you, when you get this information it's recommended that you speak to someone and see someone who understands the genetics so I did see this person in the physician and the generic counselor on the same day and she was gave me a very thorough exam and a very thorough explanation there was no rush. And I was advised, to consider, strongly having my ovaries removed. And to have twice a year breast exam, and a one time a year breast MRI, and a breast mammogram. And I followed up, I've already followed up two times. I see her twice a year, and I've had the MRI and breast exam twice. Wow, you took a lot of action. I did. And this was all based on the advice and the the I should say the, the medical advice of a genetic counselor and your clinician? Right. And the genetic council took a history of everyone in the family, mother's, mother's, father's, grandfather's. And it was interesting to, to find out my grand, my maternal grandmother died when my mother was five. So we're talking about the 1920s and I was always told my grandmother died of stomach cancer and the genetic counts that brought up the possibility that she had had ovarian cancer, of course we wouldn't know, this was the 1920s. And that was what we, would be heard, that she died of stomach cancer but it could have been ovarian cancer. In this process, was it, was it just a personal decision for you or did you include family members in, in discussing it and trying to figure out what to do as well? Well, I'll be married 50 years in. Contraulations. 2014. I'm very close with my husband, and he and I discussed this, and it just seemed like it was the right thing to do. Of course, I read a lot, and I had family members who had breast cancer, and ovarian cancer, and none of them were BRCA2 or any BRCA for that matter. So, it wasn't as if I knew anybody that had this, was in this situation. if you had any advice to tell somebody who just found out they have a BRCA 1 or BRCA 2 mutation, is there anything you think it's important for them to know or any particular advice or message you would give them? Well, if someone does inquire and finds out. I certainly think they should get genetic counselling. And see a physician who is a specialist, in breast oncology. Who is aware of the latest and greatest research. we're fortunate to live in an area where there are wonderful hospitals and research centers. And so I strongly advise people to take action and do what's best for them. I know age is a factor. If you find out you're in your 20s or 30s and you haven't started a family or had children yet, what's recommended might be entirely different than what was recommended for me. Great. Carol, thank you so much for being here. Thank you for exploring this topic. A famous thinker, some may even call infamous, Francis Galton coined the term nature versus nurture and it seems pretty relevant for this point of our discussion on complex traits. So you mean that there's a genetic or inborn component and, and environment component. Exactly, and it seems that breast cancer is affected by both environment and genetics. So you tell us, which part is the nature and which part is the nurture? Match overall genetics and overall mutation load to the proper category. Your overall genetics represents the nature part. On the other hand, your mutation load incurred by the environment represents the nurture part. One of the common misconceptions of that phrase, nature versus nurture, is that it seems to imply one or the other. The question really should be, how much of a role does each one play in different traits? Exactly, maybe it should be nature and nurture. I like that. Because it implies that both are important and we just need to determine which one is more important for different traits. Exactly, this is really important for complex traits like. Risk for breast cancer, or even traits like height. Well, are there examples of traits that are caused by multiple genes but not much of an environmental influence? So you mean like a really big nature portion and not a very big nurture component? Yeah, exactly. There are a few, and one of them is eye color. Eye color's actually what we call a polygenic trait. A polygenic trait is a trait that's controlled by multiple genes with very little environmental influence. Traits come in two main types, quantitative or qualitative. Quantitative traits vary continuously over a range of measurements, and display in statistics what we call a normal distribution or bell curve. We've already talked about one of these breast cancer risk. Good examples of this are. Things like height or weight. You can see that measurements for height vary continuously over a range. And that we have an average height. But there is a spectrum for all other possible heights. Everybody has these traits. But they vary in their quantities on a continuous spectrum. You could be five feet tall. You could be six feet tall. Anywhere in between. Now, qualitative traits don't have this quantitative aspect. Instead, qualitative traits are said to vary discontinuously. They measure the presence or absence of something, maybe a category that something falls into. For example, you may be right or left handed or you may be ambidextrous which is a mix of both. But we typically don't quantify a trait like this. You're either right handed or you're not. Now some of you more advanced learners out there may take issue with this, sort of, simple categorization here. But this is very useful in research. Being able to categorize traits as quantitative or qualitative and then measure them accordingly. Allows us to plan and carry out research that can correlate with various outcomes. So let's look at the polygenic trait of eye color, poylgenic, remember, meaning that it's influenced by multiple genes. Suppose we classify everyone based on whether they have. Brown eye color, green eye color, blue eye color. Would this be an example of a quantitative or qualitative trait? Because these are specific categories, there's no continuous variation over a range of measurements. We have these discrete units, these individual units. So this would be considered a qualitative trait. Have you ever wondered, what gives eyes their color? The short answer to this question is that Melanin, a pigment, is deposited in the Iris of the eye to give the apparent color. Soon after birth, Melanocytes, the same type of cells that confer skin pigmentation. Begin to synthesize and deposit melanin pigment. Now, if we look at the iris here, we'd have to zoom in to see the melanocytes here. And there's a special structure within the melanocyte cell called the Melanosome that synthesizes and deposits this melanin pigment. Now, normally the kind of pigment that's produced is very dark pigment. And if there's an abundance of this dark melanin, then the cell layer is thick. Most incoming light is absorbed and the eyecolor will appear brown. On the other hand, it is only a little pigment and the thin layer of cells, then little light is absorbed. And the eye will appear blue. All intermediate shades reflect variations on this theme. The amount of melanin produced combined with the thickness of the cell layers affecting how much light is reflected or absorbed. While Eye Color is polygenic and affected by several different genes. OCA2 or OCA2 plays the largest role. [UNKNOWN] with a fully functioning OCA2 produce a lot of dark [UNKNOWN] pigment, which results in brown eyes. [UNKNOWN] without a fully functioning OCA2 produce almost no pigment, resulting in blue eyes. When the OCA2 gene's function is reduced by other mutations, various eye colors from blue to hazelcan result. Based on this, I want you to rate the following OCA2 variations on a scale from Brownest to Bluest. You're going to use the numbers one, two, and three to rank these three options, one being the brownest and three being the bluest, and two being in the middle. [UNKNOWN] two copies of a silent mutation in OCA2, two copies of a nonsense mutation in OCA2. And one copy of a Mutation in the OCA2 promoter that reduces transcription. Okay, let's take these one at a time. We have two copies of a silent mutation in OCA2. Silent mutations don't change amino acids. So we aren't going to expect any change in the overall function of the OCA2 protein. So it would be fully functional. And should give us the brownest. Which should be a ranking of one. Two copies of a nonsense mutation in OCA2. Nonsense mutations are going to make a shortened protein. Probably dysfunctional largely, meaning it's not going to carry out it's normal function, is likely to be bluer, but we're not sure if it'll be the blue list yet, so let's actually take a look at the last option. One copy of the mutation in the OCA2 promoter reducing transcription. Well, this doesn't sound as severe, right? We still have functioning copies of OCA2 But we just don't have as many of them. So maybe we don't get as much pigment. This doesn't sound as severe as this one. So this would be somewhere in the middle and this would be the bluest or three. Okay, now we've learned about one gene. OCA2, which influences eye color variation. But remember that eye color is polygenic. There are other genes involved. And it turns out there's another gene that has a very interesting history for tying together most blue-eyed people in the world. Most blue eyed people have a common ancestor for about six to 10,000 years ago in the Black Sea region. It was in this region that a mutation in the middle of a another gene HERC2 or H, E, R, C, 2. Arose within an individual and began spreading throughout the region. This HERC2 mutation regulated OCA2 activity and impaired its ability to make brown eyes. Now, the HERC2 and OCA2 genes are located right next to each other on chromosome 15. So based on this information, which of the following could explain how the HERC2 allele modulates the activity of OCA2? I want you to check all the boxes that you think apply. Remember to read each option carefully. If you have trouble understanding this you should probably go back and review some of the concepts in lessons 3, 4 and 6 earlier in the course. The HERC2 allele could affect the promoter of OCA2 because the genes are so close together or the allele could alter the HERC2 proteins so that it interacts with OCA2 and directly blocks its action. Now the other options are not possible here because they change the coding region on OCA2 but we know that the mutation is within the HERC2 gene which is beside OCA2. So this is kind of a tough question It's really putting together a lot of the knowledge we talked about up to this point. About the coding regions and non coding regions and possible interactions among different proteins, as well as their locations on the chromosome. If the two genes are beside each other. Then alleles changing the coding region of OCA2 aren't really possible because we're not saying they're overlapping. They're beside each other. And so, the two options that are left are that perhaps we know that non coding regions, the regulatory regions of the OCA2 gene surround the gene. They can even be thousands of base pairs away. So mutation in the HERC2 gene. Could actually be in one of the non coding regulatory regions of OCA2, that reduces its transcription. And the other alternative is that we actually change the HERC2 protein itself. And the HERC2 protein physically interacts with the OCA2 protein elsewhere in the cell. And it inhibits or reduces its activity. Both of those are plausible. But most traits aren't like eye color right? Right. Most complex traits are actually result of multiple genetic interactions with an environmental influence. Well going back to our nature and nurture phrase, how do we know how much of a trait is from nature or from nurture? Well it can be difficult to make a blanket statement about how much is nature and how much is nurture. Because there can be a lot of variability from individual to individual, but what we can do is look at all the differences in a group of individuals and how much of that is caused by a genetic influence. This is what we call heritability. Yeah, heritability we talk a lot about that in psychology. Sure, heritability is measured on a scale from zero to one, where zero means that variation in the trait is not due to genetics at all, whereas a one indicates the variation of the trait can be explained completely by genetics. For example, when people talk about the heritability of a disease, they're referring to how much of differences in risk for that disease across the population is due to genetics. Okay, so it's not the same thing as saying how much of a trait is genetic? Exactly those are two different things, whether or not a trait is caused genetically versus whether the variability in a trait is due to genetics. Let's go and take a look at our example of height again. Suppose we're measuring height in two different parts of the United States. Now, let's say in the first population everyone has a similar economic status. And thus a very similar lifestyle. But in the second population, people vary a lot in their economic status and their resulting lifestyles. How would the heritability of height compare between population one and two? Do you think it would be the same? Do you think it would be higher population one? Or do you think it would be higher in population two? Remember, heritability is measured on a scale from zero to one. So the answer to this question is that we would expect the heritability to be higher in population one. Now why is that? Well let's think about this for a second. In the first population the environment is very consistent between everyone in the population. So more of the differences in height that we're actually able to measure are going to be due to genetic factors than environmental ones. In the second population though. There are a lot of environmental factors going on that could potentially also effect height. Economic status can effect how much food you get to eat, the quality of that food. How much stress you're under. All things that can impact your development, and adult height. So more of the differences in height in the second population are likely due to the environment more so than in the first population. This is going to be reflected in the overall heritability values between the populations. Obviously genetics is still playing a role on the population two, so the heritability won't be zero but its likely to be lower than the heritability in population one. Okay, so inheritability it deals with the difference in height and how much of that variation is genetic but how do we figure that out? I thought you might ask that question. So I asked my friend Taylor to come in and help us out. If you want to find out whether or not a trait is influenced more by genetics or more by environment, then you need to find a pair of people who are identical. And see if they both have that trait. So, you mean like twins. Identical twins to be exact. Oh wow, you creeped me out. We get that. A lot. Identical twins are actually a really useful tool for scientists to determine heritablity. But aren't there different types of twins? Well there are. there are identical and there're fraternal twins. We also refer to them as Monozygotic and Dizygotic. Wait mono what? Monozygotic and dizygotic. Oh. Monozygotic means that they came from same fertilized egg or zygote. Dizygotic means in a came from two different fertilized eggs or two different zygotes. So genetically identical twins, do you think they would be dizygotic or monozygotic? So identical share the exact same genetic makeup, so they must have shared the same sperm and egg. So, monozygotic? That is correct. What do we have for her Matt? A trip to the next video! Perfect. Yes! [LAUGH] To do experiment and determine the genetic contribution and variability of a trait, scientists need controls and identical twins serve as a genetic control. For example if we want to figure out the heritability of a certain trait, for example sense of humor. We might take identical twins raised in different environments and then see if they have that trait or not. Now if both twins always have the trait, even if they were raised in completely different environments. Would that mean there's a strong or a weak genetic component. If changing the environment on genetically identical twins still results in the trait, it suggests that the genetic component is stronger than the environmental component. In reality, most studies of twins are of twins raised together rather than in different environments. But we can still estimate heritability by comparing the concordance of a trait between monozygotic and dizygotic twins even when they've been raised in similar environments. So if a pair of twins matches for a trait We call it concordance. If they don't match then we call it a discordance. The higher the concordance for trait in monozygotic twins, compared to dizygotic twins. Then the higher the heritability of that trait. In other words, the higher the match in monozygotic twins, when there's a non-match in dizygotic twins, suggests that the difference is the genetics, that the fact that the monozygotic twins are identical, whereas dizygotic twins are only half identical, right, they only share 50%. That being identical, those genes, those genetic factors, are important in making the match. Alternatively, if we found a lot of matching between monozygotic twins, as well as a lot of matching between dizygotic twins, because we know that there's the huge difference in the genetic identity between these pairs of twins that whatever's going on with the matching. Likely has more to do with the environment that the twins are raised in rather than the fact that the monozygotic twins are identical. Rather than genetics. For example, suppose you're interested in handedness, right or left handedness. Taylor here is left-handed and so is Grant. So they're concordant for handedness. Now does this mean that handedness has a high heritability? Why or why not? I want you to think about this for a second, don't just jump the gun and put something down. Think about the question and then come up with what you think is a good answer put it in the text box here. Now I hope you take some time thinking about this because the answer to the question is well, maybe. I mean just knowing about one pair of twins doesn't tell you much about the genetic contribution to handedness. Because they could have matched simply by chance. And then you need data from a lot more pairs of twins than just one set. And we need data from dizygotic twins as well, to start getting a real estimate of heritability. Remember the more pairs of twins you compare, the more confidence you have that the heritability estimate is going to be accurate. Okay, it's about time we pointed out that there are traits that aren't very heritable. Meaning that they don't have a high heritability. For example, monozygotic twins can easily be discordant with regards to religious belief. This touches back more on what we discussed in lesson one, where we first introduced the idea of traits. And we discussed the idea of a learned versus innate trait. In this case we're talking about a lower heritability, meaning that it's more of a learned trait. It has more to do with your environmental factors, such as which culture a person might be raised in. So in other words the low concordance rate of religious belief between a monozygotic twins results in a lower heritability. So let's think about it again on our scale of heritability. Religious belief would be down here because the variation we see in our population of people who believe in different things has very little to do with any kind of genetic factor at all. It's all based on how this person was raised, where as the other end of the spectrum we have one of the highest heritabilites for eye color. Because this is largely controlled by your genetics. The environment has almost nothing to do with this trait. And then we could have a trait somewhere in the middle. Like lung cancer, which we know can be heritable due to genetic factors. But in the human population, we see a lot of variability in this trait. Due to environmental components, such as cigarette smoking. So remember, in our journey to better understand complex traits. When we use our twin studies to determine or estimate an amount of heritability. We're much better off following up genetically on those traits that appear to have a larger genetic component. Than those that don't. For quantitative traits like height we can't use concordance because it's not a simple yes no matching for height. Remember, concordance means there's agreement between our categories. So we've got brown, blue, green and we're looking for matching between our twins. But quantitative traits don't have these categories, so instead what we're doing is we're measuring over a range of possibilities. And so we're going to actually make what's called a correlation rather than a concordance. A correlation is a statistical term referring to an observable relationship between any paired values. Well what does that mean exactly? What it means is that if we have a pair of twins where, one twin has a height that's almost the same as the height of the other twin, we would say that these are correlated. Twin one and twin two both had roughly the same height. If across many pairs of twins, the height of twin one is very similar to the height of twin two, then this results in what we call a strong correlation. But if instead you see that the height measurements between twin one and twin two are very different, then we would say that there is a weak or no correlation at all. Now most of the time we don't look at these kinds of numbers in table format. We look at them in graph form. Take a look at these four graphs right here comparing twin height between twin one and twin two. Essentially what we've done, is we measured the twin height for twin one, and then we go up and plot a point where we get to the twin height of twin two. And we do this for a huge number of twins, and we have four different results. I want you to rate the graphs from strongest correlation with the number one to the weakest weakest correlation with the number four. Put the numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4 in the text boxes you see here, ranking each graph in order of strongest to weakest correlation. Now this could be a little more difficult if you don't have any experience with statistics or looking at correlation graphs before, but I still want you to give it a shot and see how you do. Okay. The ranking order for correlation of these graphs, would be graph number three is the strongest correlation. Graph number one is the next strongest correlation. Graph number four has the next strongest correlation And the second graph has the weakest correlation. Now think about this with me for just a second. Think about why this is. What we're going to do is measure a couple of points in our graph. Take a look at our strongest correlating graph. You see if we go over to any given point, we come down at about the same place. On the horizontal axis, on the x axis. The y axis and the x axis values are roughly the same for each point. They're pretty close together. They're a match. And now notice that in our weakest correlated graph, that if we go to any given point, wow, we're kind of all over the place, right? I mean, we have a relatively high height for twin two here, but that point goes down to a relatively low height for twin one. So that wasn't a very high match. We do the same thing here. We had a lower height for twin two, and a really high height for twin one at that point. So these are not correlating very well, and this is the graphical representation of that. If you have any trouble, you should definitely check out the Udacity course on statistics, co-taught by Katie Kormanik. And also go to the discussion forums for this video and see if you can get some advice or help from your classmates. I hope this hasn't gotten too mathy for you wonderful biology students out there, but I want to throw one more big, cool calculation on you. One way of actually measuring or estimating heritability is to compare the correlation of a trait between monozygotic twins and dizygotic twins. Now there are multiple equations out there that people use to estimate or calculate heritability. One of the one's that's relevant to what we've learned so far, is using the correlations between monozygotic and dizygotic twins for trait. And this is the equation here. Heritability is equal to two times the monozygotic correlation minus the dizygotic correlation. Now the chief assumptions here are that monozygotic twins Are twice as genetically identical as dizygotic twins, right? Dizygotic twins are 50% identical and monozygotic twins are 100% genetically identical. And that's where this two comes in outside the parenthesis. Because monozygotic twins are twice as identical, or two times as identical as dizygotic twins. So if our heritability is low, if it's under 0.5. It means that variation in the trait reflect environmental influences because the dizygotic correlation roughly equal the monozygotic correlation. So we're getting a much lower number from our equation. But if variation chiefly reflects genetic influences, then the correlation between monozygotic twins is going to be much higher than dizygotic twins. So we're going to get a much higher heritability value. So let's look at the heritability of a trait like height. So here we have a monzygotic correlation of 0.95 and a dizygotic correlation of 0.525. So if we plug these numbers into our equation we get a heritability of 0.85. And this is actually the heritability of height in developed countries. Does this mean that the environment or the genome plays a larger role in determining the variability of the trait of height. Use this heritability value to decide your response. Heritability of 0.85 is closer to one, indicating that genetic factors play a much larger role in differences in height across the population than environmental factors do. Now ,if genetics did not play much of a role, then the correlation in monozygotic and dizygotic twins would be more similar, and the heritability would be closer to zero. So now we know that height is strongly heritable. So, are you saying that there's a height gene? Well, not exactly a single height gene. The heritability values don't tell us about the number or type of genes involved in a given trait. Heritability values don't exactly tell us about the genetic differences that could be contributing to the trait themselves. For example, we don't know if we're looking for a missense mutation, or nonsense mutation, or chromosomal translocation some place in the genome. So why should somebody still care about heritability? Well, heritability can tell us if genetic factors are involved at all, and actually might even be able to tell us how easy it would be to find out what those genetic factors are. For example, a heritability close to one would signify that there are probably a few genes responsible for the variability in the trait, and that they have a strong influence This means that we'd be able to perhaps find out what they are even in a relatively small study size. But the lower the heritability, the farther away from one we get and the closer to zero, the more likely it is that there are many genes that have an effect, each with a smaller influence overall. And it would take a much larger study size to find the effects of those particular genetic factors. To identify genetic factors that may be involved in a particular trait, we conduct something called a Genetic Association Study. Now these studies take people with a trait, for example a skin condition and really they take a whole population of people with this trait and they compare their genetics to an individual or really a group of individuals. Without this particular trait. In this case without the skin condition. Now what we're going to do is look at a genetic factor, or more. And we're going to see which variants each population has. Now if a certain genetic variant is observed more frequently than you would expect by chance, in the actual cases, than the controls. Then it's good evidence that it might be involved in the trait. Suppose that we have 1,000 people that have a particular kind of skin rash and we compare them to 1,000 people that don't have this particular kind of skin rash. Now let's say we analyze these two populations. For one particular genetic factor. And let's saw we determine that 50% of the population with the skin rash has a cytosine for this genetic factor at a given position and that in the control population only 20% have a cytosine. Now at that same position, the only other option that we can have. Is an adenine. And our affected population, the othe50%, the remaining 50%, have an adenine. And in our control population, the remaining, in this case 80%, have an adenine. Now we have a lot of people in our population, a thousand. If this letter was insignificant to this particular trait. We would expect that with so many people that these numbers would be more similar. 50, 50, 50, 50, or 20, 80, 20, 80 in both situations. In other words, these differences are greater than what we would expect to see by chance. So, based on this scenario here, I want you to tell me which of the following is the most reasonable conclusion. Okay, the most reasonable conclusion in this case is that the C variant is associated with the higher risk for the skin rash. Remember we emphasized that we have a large group of people that we use for our study and we found a difference. That can't be attributed to just random chance. There were many more people who had an adenine in the control group compared to those in the skin rash group. They had a higher percentage of people with the cytosine at that position, which means that the cytosine is associated with this trait more than the adenine is, compared to the controls. So how do scientists know which genetic factors to look at? Couldn't there be thousands or even millions of possible variations and mutations? This is true. And, sometimes scientists, even have the hard time determining what the genetic factors are for a given complex trait. Especially if it has a moderate to low heritability. And this is a genome-wide association studies and SNVs come in. Genome-wide association studies look at SNVs and other genetic factors across the whole genome to find correlation between specific alleles and the trait or disorder being studied. The method is almost exactly the same as the skin-rash association study we just looked at in the last exercise. Except instead of just one genetic factor, GWAS or Genome Wide Association Studies look at hundreds or thousands or even millions of factors at once. They're looking at the whole genome. This method takes full advantage of all of our SNVs, all of our single nucleotide variations and uses them as sign posts for different phenotypes or traits. And although this can be a really powerful tool, it doesn't always yield clear results as we'll see with an example of bipolar disorder. Bipolar disorder is characterized by normally widened moodswings, ranging from mania, which is an abnormally and persistently elevated mood; to depression, a state of sadness and intense loss of pleasure or interest in life. Now, the onset of symptoms for bipolar disorder are usually between the ages of 18 and 25. Though over time the severity of the mood swings can intensify. So my name is Nikolas Blanchet, I'm thirty one years old. I currently live in San Francisco, California though I have lived all over the United States, and I am di, have been diagnosed with Bipolar II Disorder. Bipolar II Disorder is characterized by long periods of depression like symptoms. so lethargy, lack of motivation, lack of ambition. periods that, periods of hopelessness, periods of sadness, although not everyone had, experiences it in the same way. in addition to that, Bipolar II has a fun little twist, where you've also got periods of what's called Hypomania. Uh-huh. Hypomania is like a less extreme form of mania. Mania being, where you have a complete break from reality, and you are hyper-energetic, hyper-optimistic. you usually take a lot of risky behavior. For example sort of the characteristic that my doctor always tells me to watch out for is, give me a call if you decided that you're going to Vegas, and going to buy a yacht for the weekend, because it might seem like a lot of fun, so bring me in on the fun. Hypomania in my case, manifested as periods of extreme sociability hypersexuality extreme productivity at work, and less sleep than normal. Also, with Bipolar II disorder, the hypomanic periods are rare. So one to two time a year, and fairly brief. somewhere between three and seven days, which is very different than standard mania. I see. And when were you diagnosed? I was diagnosed Bipolar II Disorder in November of 2012. Okay, so you've only known then for a little bit of time. Right. And how, how's that affected you? How did, how, how did that come about? So I had been diagnosed with depression for, and this is apparently, by the way, a very typical story. I had been tia, diagnosed with depression for about five years. I was going to a psychiatrist and a psychologist regularly. and they would prescribe various antidepressants, none of which would work. And in fact, my symptoms over time gradually but, but noticeably, trended worse and worse and worse. after I moved to the Bay area my psychiatrist that I got out here, pointed out that I might actually not be responding well to the medication, because it was treating something that I didn't have. And, instead, he su, suggested that I switch to mood stabilizers. Well, the confirming fact came after I was taking a very high dosage of an antidepressant, and through the end of November and through most December, I had a very, very bad period of depression. I had no motivation to do anything, I stopped going to work, it was pretty bad. And then when I went back in and saw him again, he prescribed a, what's called a mood stabilizer, which is different than antidepressant. Well, that leads me to another question about sort of advantages, and disadvantages here. You've touched on them briefly, but from your own perspective, I mean, are there any advantages to being or having showing symptoms of bipolar and, and, and I'm also curious in the disadvantages. So, the advantages. I've never really thought of it that way. one thing they don't tell you, is that hypomania is awesome. [LAUGH] [LAUGH] It feels really good. you're, you're an animal in bed, you are hyperproductive at work. You have a lot of energy. You are really social. You're really charming. You're really dynamic. you can be a little bit more risky with your behavior, but not so much so that people around you are like scared for you. So, people just think, wow Nick's really on par this week. You basically feel like you are king of the world, for a period of time. The disadvantages are obviously, work disruption. Right? So, that's the biggest one. With me these long drawn out periods of silence. And you know as a, as a friend of mine, like I would go through periods where no one would hear from Nick. Where is Nick? I would just disappear, because keeping up appearances and and making sure that people around me are comfortable and having a good time, is important to me. And so when I was in a bad place, I instead of like being the negative guy around everyone all the time, I just sort of removed myself from the situation. And, of course, there's social stigma and stuff attached with it, too, which makes it complicated. It makes it difficult to have relationships. It makes it difficult to stick to tasks. I stopped and started college a, a number of times, and looking back, it probably had a lot to do with this. I don't want to blame this for all of my problems. Right? I still have good days and bad days, I'm still mortal, I still make mistakes. But I suppose now that I think about it, another advantage of Bipolar Disorder, and having had it diagnosed, is I get insight. I know a little bit more about why things happen, why am I this way, why. Why? It gives context. It doesn't excuse things. I still things that I need to work on. But it gives a little context about what my struggles might be, about the things that I need to watch out for. It also makes sure that I exercise, because that's very helpful. How do other people perceive you as someone who is Bipolar? What's the general reaction? How, how is it perceived by others, both strangers, just say, the general public, but also your friends. Have they responded and, and what's your reaction to their reactions? When people who I know, and have known for a period of time, find out that I'm Bipolar, I tend to get one of two reactions. One is generally supportive. And saying oh, well, I'm glad you're just getting this managed, I'm glad you've got some stuff. And the other one's sort of like a duh, I could have told you that! Not because it manifested, because, but because you know, their because they have noticed these trends that I have. And they knew that there was something up, but they never knew what it was. And so, okay, this makes sense that you've got this. We're curious in knowing, what is your family history of Bipolar, and any other mental health condition that you think might be related. So, my Mom, my Mom was diagnosed with Bipolar II Disorder and she's, she was actually on the same medication that I am on now, for a while, but she never told me this. My sister one of my younger sisters suffers from depression. my Dad is the, actually, on that side of the family, he is the most ADD person I have ever met in my entire life. Like, you know the Wikipedia hole, where you just keep clicking on hyperlink, after hyperlink, after hyperlink, until you've got a million tabs open? Yeah, like he can't use Wikipedia because it's paralyzing. His, his weekend will be gone. What do you think about the portrayal of mental health in general, both in the media, and in society at large? How we deal with it as a population? Do you think we take mental health seriously? Do you think it's portrayed in a meaningful way that gets the right kind of attention, or do you think we still have some work to do? I definitely believe that in the area of portrayal of mental health well, in the area of how the average person thinks of mental health, we have some work to do. Because it's one, it's, it's easy to look at someone and say, you have a broken leg. You have a scratch. You've been burned. But when it permeates the mind. When it permeates the thing that's sitting behind the eyes, and looking back at you. It's hard to say, well you're an asshole versus you have an issue. And, because it's so difficult to recognize in the first place, we tend to overlook it, minimize it, and, and not give it the type of treatment that we should. If I had to have a message for somebody who's Bipolar II I would definitely say, seek medical assistance. this is something that responds very well to treatment. And once you've gotten that proper treatment, once you've been able to help yourself out, then you can live a very, very satisfying and happy life. To determine whether there are genetic factors underlying bipolar disorder, monozygotic and dizygotic studies have actually been employed. Now in these studies it was found monozygotic twins show a concordance of 62% for bipolar disorder. And that dizygotic twins show a concordance rate of 8%. This was true for twins reared together and twins reared apart. So based on just this information alone I want you to tell me which of the following is most likely to be true. Bipolar disorder is explained completely by genetic factors where there's a strong genetic component that's influenced by the environment or there's a weak genetic component that's mainly influenced by the environment. Or the bipolar disorder can be explained completely by environmental factors. Go ahead and pick which answer you think is best. So in this study there's far more concordance in the monozygotic twins than there is in the dizygotic twins. Which indicates a strong but not complete genetic influence. Now I know we've been over it a couple times now, but I really hope you understand this important connection. When you have a strong correlation or concordance with monzygotic twins, and you don't see as much with dizygotic twins, that's when you know there's a stronger genetic component. When the monozygotic twins and the dizygotic twins are closer together in their concordance or correlation rates, that's when you can't say it's because of genetics. And that's more to do with the environment. Now I use numbers from one particular study of bipolar disorder, but there are multiple different studies out there. And these numbers can change over time so don't take these as a fact of bipolar. This is, this being the final say or anything. Science constantly re-evaluates its conclusions based on the given data. And this could change in the future, but for our purposes right here, this study indicates a strong genetic influence. Here's an actual pedigree tracking bipolar disorder in an Amish family. Now at first glance, you may think that this looks pretty familiar, and may make you feel right at home. But like many complex traits, this pedigree looks different than it would for a single-gene disorder. For example, if I told you to look at this pedigree and tell me if you thought the inheritance pattern was dominant or recessive. You might be inclined to say dominant, if you look at the fact that the trait doesn't skip generations and affected parents do give rise to affected children. But you might also think that it's recessive. For example over here the trait skipped generations. And it did over here as well. And we have unaffected parents with affected children. That's typical of a recessive trait. We're actually somewhere in between. This is complex. Now to me, this pedigree indicates a more dominant inheritance pattern. Now if we assume the trait to be dominate like we learned about in lesson five and completely penetrant right, that's the only kind we've talked about up to this point. Then we would expect affected children to have at least one affected parent. But that's not what we saw. What we see are unaffected parents. If you thought the trait looks more recessive, we wouldn't expect it to show up in every generation like it did here. These little deviations from our normal inheritance patterns are a key indicator that there are likely multiple genetic factors, as well as environmental factors, controlling the phenotype. Whenever we find incompletely penetrant traits or alleles, this is likely what's going on. To better understand what genetic factors might be influencing bipolar disorder. A large genome-wide association study has been conducted using hundreds of thousands of SNVs. In 3,000 control individuals who don't have bipolar disorder And 2,000 individuals that have been diagnosed with bipolar disorder. Although some alleles or variants were found more often in patients than in controls. None were convincingly different than would be expected by chance. So which of the following is most likely to be true? Now there are multiple answers to this question. So I want you to check all that you think apply. This could be a little bit tricky so try to take each answer individually to critically think about which options are actually viable. So the answe to this question is the last three answers, all of them. Now why is that? [UNKNOWN], the first answer says there's no genetic component at all. We just saw in of the previous exercises that there is a concordance rate between Monozygotic twins indicating a genetic component. Just because we didn't find anything in the study. Doesn't actually mean there's not a genetic component. It could be that there's so many alleles. With each individual allele having a very small effect that we need even bigger studies more than just thousands. Maybe tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people for us to identify the alleles that have the effect. We could also be looking at the wrong variations. Perhaps we need more SNV's to look at or maybe that there are bigger mutations we need to focus on like chromosomal translocations or gene duplications, deletions, insertions. These are detectable by just looking at single nucleotide changes. And there could always be more complicated hereditary processes, hiding simple genetic effects. If there's anything this lesson has taught you. I hope it's a, there are many traits that are complex and they don't fit our simple rules of dominant and recessive. And while this can make it really difficult to understand or follow, it's what gives us all the beautiful uniqueness of each human being on the planet. It's been difficult to identify quote, mood genes, for traits like bipolar disorder for two main reasons. The first is that bipolar disorder is more of a collection of syndromes, rather than a specific condition. There's no single diagnostic test or biomarker that allows us to delineate the trait. And heterogeneity in the trait itself, makes it more difficult to identify coherent genetic correlations. And the second reason is that bipolar disorder may be caused by a very large number of genetic factors that interact among themselves, and with the environment. And this means that any given SNV that might explain part of the trait. Would require a huge population to find it and that same SNV would only account for a small amount of the overall genetic risk. Until we have more precise information, patients and families are going to have to deal with the best technology that we have available. And we could all do a better job at understanding how bipolar disorder develops. I hope you enjoyed thinknig about this question. And I also hope you came up with something resembling the right answer. Now overall you should have gathered from all this information that a genetic susceptibility is prominent for type two diabetes here. Remember, a higher heritability value, anything over 0.5 indicates a larger variance between the monozygotic and dizygotic twins. Anything over 0.5 indicates something that's more genetically influenced. Anything less than 0.5 would be more environmental. We also have information from our monozygotic, dizygotic twin concordances. Notice that we have from 70 to 90% for monozygotic. And something significantly less for the dizygotic twins. Again, this is indicative of a genetic component. We even know, from our GWAS study, that there are about 50 genetic factors influencing the trait. Now, each one has a small effect, but that doesn't mean it's any less genetic. It just means that we have a lot of genetic factors contributing a small amount individually. So given this explanation, I want you to tell me. Look at your answer from the question. How satisfied are you with your own answer on a scale from one to five with one not being at all satisfied and five being completely satisfied. I want to know how you think you did. Okay, this has been a complex lesson, all about complex traits and here's your chance to show me what you learned. You know what to do. Just use the words in the word bank and fill in the blanks. Okay, let's walk through this concept map. And this lesson was all about complex traits, and most traits are complex, and we learned about traits really for the first time in lesson one. And there are two main types of complex traits. We have polygenic, and multifactorial. Both are controlled by multiple genes, but only polygenic traits don't really have an influence from the environment, whereas multifactorial traits do. Now, among multifactorial traits that have a genetic and environmental component, the variabilities seen among that trait can be explained using something called heritability. Heritability is on a scale from zero to one. And if there's a low heritability, under 0.5, then it means that variability is more influenced by the environment, whereas the higher heritability means that the variation in the trait can be explained by more of a genetic component, or by certain alleles. Now, one way to estimate heritability is to use studies of twins, both monozygotic and dizygotic. Now we can use correlation in these studies. To measure quantitative traits which vary continuously over a range. Whereas, we would use concordance to measure qualitative traits which vary discontinuously. Which means, unlike height, which can vary over a range of numbers from five feet, to six feet, to seven feet. There are only certain options, like blue eye color or brown eye color or green eye color. So, in general, these multifactorial traits that show a range of variability, like our risk for breast cancer, can be measured on a spectrum. And overall this is due to incomplete penetrance of particular alleles. So this throws a monkey wrench into the. Simple dominant and recessive traits we learned about in lesson eight. And then in our search for understanding the variability among multifactorial traits we can use GWAS studies or Genome Wide Association Studies. To help discover correlative alleles that might influence these multifactorial traits. And we learned all about alleles in lessons three, four and six. Hopefully you enjoyed piecing all this information together if you had some trouble why don't you go check out the forums and see if you had any of the same questions as some of your classmates do. This lesson was hard. And it's hard to learn and it's equally as hard to teach. But there're some major concepts I want you to take away from this. So let's try to summarize them into five main points. Point one. Most traits are complex. And they exemplify the paradigm of nature and nurture. Point two, polygenic traits like eye color are controlled by multiple genes with minimal environmental influence, whereas multifactorial traits are controlled by multiple genes with a measurable environmental impact. Point three, quantitative traits like weight and height vary continuously over a range of measurements. Whereas qualitative traits, like Huntington's disease, are either present or their not. Point four, monozygotic and dizygotic twins are useful in studying the heritability of a trait, when twin correlations are helpful for quantitative traits, and twin concordances are useful for qualitative traits. And point five. Genome wide association studies are useful in determining whether any candidate alleles influence a particularly complex trait. Well, guess I should stop looking for my smart gene. Oh, Lauren, I wouldn't give up completely. I mean, intelligence is complex. But, if you determine heritability first, and then perform a genetic association study, you might have some luck at determining multiple genetic factors that are associated with the trait. I'm assuming this works with other complex traits such as schizophrenia, anorexia, or even obsessive-compulsive disorder. Absolutely, in theory. Although we focused on the traits of risk for breast cancer, height, and bipolar disorder, it should be understood that the conclusions drawn and the methods used here would apply to a whole host of other complex traits as well. Well in that case, I think I need to start my own genome-wide association study. Oh, and what are you interested in searching for? Why some people prefer beer. Why some people prefer wine. Oh, I think you're definitely going to enjoy our next lesson then. In the next lession, we're going to determine why and how differences in our genomes can result in our various responses to particular drugs.