Christian is now going to introduce the final project for this class. But a note before he does. The final project is a digital device, something you keep in your pocket, something you work by gesture and touch, maybe voice. You might wonder, gee, everything in this class has been physical, physical products. So, how do the principles we've learned in the class apply to this new domain? Well that's why we're doing it. We want you to know that all the things you've learned apply to all products. It doesn't matter whether it's [SOUND] a physical product like this, where the physical affordances are very important. Or to a digital product like this, where gestures and maybe voice and touching is very important. All the principles apply with maybe different emphasis. So for example, with a physical product affordances are important. With this, it is the signifiers that are critical. Doesn't matter, all the principles of this course apply to all products, perishible, digital, physical. This is the last project of the course. We'll be putting together everything you've learned so far. Affordances, signifiers, conceptual model, system image, discoverablity, and feedback. For many of you, this will be the first time you've thought about an interface from the design side. You just use it. And for others, perhaps you'll be thinking about stuff in new ways. In any case, this is the capstone project for the course, and we want you to bring it all together. And you'll be amazed at what you create and learn in the process. As we do this project, we'll also practice a few new key design methods that will help you create new ideas, faster prototypes and get feedback from users. But don't worry about that now, you'll be doing it before you know it. Payments, or exchanges, have been around for a long time. And digital payments, or wallets, are becoming increasingly popular. We're going to take this idea of a digital wallet, and give it a twist. You're going to be designing the user interface for a new time bank, mobile device. So what's a time bank? Well, that's our challenge. What if people could exchange their time, and expertise, for others' time, and expertise, all hours being equal? We'll create a portable time bank that enables you to exchange your hours with someone else's. In this case, the time bank is a credit card size touch interface, and it will fit in the wallet, like this. So you can carry it around with you. Let me give you an example of how your time bank might work. Let's say, I'm looking for someone to fix my bike. Well, by teaching design to other time bank members, I've accumulated a credit of hours. I look, and I find Jane, who is an excellent bike repair person, and I invite her to my project. We agree on the job. The work is completed and the bike is now running great. And so, we make the transfer of hours which have been deducted from my account and added to Jane's. I'll bet some of you are already thinking about how this works as a system. Well, there's my screen, and then there's Jane's screen. And then, there's some administrator at the bank. Even though this is a more complex system. For this project, to make it simple, we're just going to focus on a single person's user interface and experience. What your screens would look like, if you were using the bank. So let's start with a warm-up activity to create concepts for more, and less. We'll actually use these later as they're central to the conceptual model of the Time Bank. With the Time Bank, when we do tasks for someone, we get more time in our account. And after someone does a task for us, when we pay them, we get less time in our account. So lets follow along with the students. So we're going to do a very quick exercise. Get a new big piece of paper. Some of the things you need to communicate in your wallet are conceptual models of more or less. All right, so we're going to take a few minutes and you're going to do ten conceptual models of how you can show, how you can depict more or less/ All right, aside from seeing the bar graph, we're seeing things like size. We're seeing a pie chart. We're seeing heavy set and thin, big stack of bottles, and small stack of bottles. Nice. Now let's turn to feedback. How would you let a user know when something was done? How does the user know that the action has been completed? So now, now you're going to do the exchange. So now you're exchanging with someone. How do you know when it's been completed? Okay. You know what's funny about these questions, is they seem obvious. Like, duh, right, but actually when you're the designer, you have to think about this. Yeah. What happens that shows it's done? Mhm. The numbers change. Does anything else happen? Do they see the numbers change? If you view this like some Apple products sometimes, like when you delete something, the little piece moves into the trash can. You know, that's feedback. Right? But it's also feedback that showed what happened. Like this thing didn't just disappear, it moved into this other folder that you can actually go to. [SOUND] What we've been doing here are the first steps of what is called low fidelity prototyping. This is where we take paper to make simple representations of our designs. We create paper prototypes for communication, and to demonstrate our ideas. And to find out what works for a user. We don't want to invest too much into it, sketching is cheap and engineering is expensive. You said the word wire-frames. Can you I've heard that word a lot. Can you explain what that is? Well, actually Clifton has a great example of a wire-frame. A wire-frame shows the basic information and placement of different elements. So he's got a little token here that kind of represents an image. You know, and I think that's become so familiar to us that we know that that's like a picture of somebody, even though it doesn't look like anybody I know. In fact, it looks kind of like a question mark with a little hump. And then this is text, placement for text. And he's out it within this frame, which is actually very similar to this frame. Mm-hm. Right? Of our device. So and then he's got some call outs and labels. So this, essentially, is wire frames, all these are wire frames. And the difference, say, between his wire frames and yours is that he's constrained them by a frame. Oh. [COUGH] He's sort of put that around and he's thought a little bit about how things are positioned within this constraint. So, he's already one step ahead, which is fine. Wire frames show placement in an actual frame of a device. And flows are sequences of wire frames. Flows work to create a user interface story, in much the same way as a comic strip tells a story. Now, let's actually make some wire frames and flows, using those conceptual models that we made earlier. In fact, let's bring all the elements you generated before, including the conceptual models, the discoverable signifiers, and the feedback, into our wire frames and story board. What we're going to do next, is we're going to show our designs to three other people, and find out how, we as designers, can improve them. How do we make it simpler? How can we increase the discoverability? And, what are the cues for feedback, and how do we make those stronger? For a few tips, see the project brief, on how to do an effective feedback session with users. Now let's watch Clifton, as he shows his designs to Kathleen, a potential user. Notice how he interacts with Kathleen, and in particular, notice how he asks her questions. So Kathleen, imagine you have this new product, this digital wallet, that you kind of you can trade times with other people. So you start off here. And tell me what you see, and what you would like to do? So, it looks like I have, a bank and my balance right now is three hours, and 10 minutes. Okay, so what, what would you do here? I would probably type in, you know, whatever I'm looking for, knowing what that I have my balance and start, start looking for you know, a person to help me. Trade, or do whatever I'm looking to do. Mm, okay. So let's assume you tap on this you go to this screen. I'm going to say that I'm looking for somebody to clean my house so that I have a, an idea to, to keep going with. Mm-hm. And my, my, yeah. And so now I think I would see that these are all the people who are near me and and what costs they have. Looks like the red and the green. Red would be, maybe, by myself. I like that it is. Actually, something that I think it would be nice is if we actually started with the green and it showed me the things that I could afford first, rather than the things I can't afford because that, that seems a little snubbing. Like, hey, look at this, you can't have it. Notice that Clifton didn't answer Katheline's questions directly, but instead he asked a question in response. Well, this is because the designer will not be there to answer the questions in real life. The designer is not part of the system image. Note also, that he talks much less that Katheline. That is the best way for him to learn something new. Now you try it. It could be anyone, your mailman, grandma, neighbor, honest friend anyone. Talk to a few. Let say three people and then revise your design based on the feedback. Now that we've learned from users, we're going to iterate our designs, and then we'll commit to them. And we're going to wrap them up in a presentation. Before we do that, let's go check in with the students at Udacity office, and hear what they've learned from this project. I wanted to feel good when I use this up. So say someone came on or within your range. But what if you see a flower or a fun picture that you like. Hmm; Hmmm. It adds a click, but it makes me feel good and I'm happy to compensate for a click, as far as it makes me feel good. So you click on that and then it shows you the map and shows you the person that you're most likely to barter with or exchange or transact with, and gives a little profile of who they are and What they're wanting to offer. Once you dig deeper there's a screen that tells you how many hours you have. So these were just supposed to be coins that you have 16 hours right now and for this transaction you need three hours. There's a little button that can help you transact, and once you have transacted makes you feel better by showing you an ice cream cone or a heart sign, or some image that makes you feel nice. I like the fact that you're putting a focus on that one person. So if that's like a mutual thing, like if you got shown Clifton's profile, and then Clifton gets showed Kanall's profile, you establish that mutual connection. It's much more kind of deep and meaningful than just seeing like a list right? And you pick from list. Yeah because it seemed to me as if the, the soul of the business. Mm-hm. Was about exchanging hours and not money. And that was, it was already fun. I like the flower idea, I would've taken that from you, if you don't already have it on camera, the thought of it. You should take it. It's okay. Now you've applied the six principles from this course to create a new UI. Together, your sketches are what Don calls the system image. That's the stuff a person experiences in order to use that interface. Now, finish your project by putting it together in a five page document. You'll find instructions explained in the project brief. And when you're done, share it in the forums. Hey Christian, finished. Indeed. Congratulations. You're at the end of the course. You've now learned a lot of concepts through the last three projects, and taken the first steps to being a designer. So let me do a quick summary of what we've gone over in this course. First of all there were six fundamental design principles, and that lead. To the gulf of execution, the gulf of evaluation, which led to seven questions that people ask as they try to use something. Those seven questions, the ones that crossed the two gulfs, illustrate the important role of designers, which is to communicate. Communicate the conceptual model they have to the person who's going to use the product. How do you do the communication? Well it's via the product itself, the system image. So how do you cross that gap? Well, the tools are very simple. It's affordances and signifiers and conceptual models, and that's the whole course. Through these three projects, you've learned a lot of techniques that are really powerful. You've learned to go and observe the world, you've learned to create invitations such as with the queue. And with user interface, well, screens are all around us. So you've learned some powerful techniques like idea generation, rapid prototyping and user evaluation. You can take that, you can get better at those things, you can learn more, you can build and you can change the world. Hey, Christian. Hey, Don. Oh thank you, you found it. Have a box. Mm-hm. Excellent. Congratulations. Hey, congratulations to you, too. I enjoyed making this course. I enjoyed it, too. You know, I hope you enjoyed it just as much as we did. [LAUGH] Is that my gift? You brought it! Well yeah. [LAUGH] Thank you, now I'm going to find out what it is. Oh you shouldn't have. No seriously you shouldn't have. But I did. It's empty [LAUGH]. The people you see on the screen, are students doing the last design project for this course. That's what you'll be able to do, as well. Creating a useful product using the design principles of affordances. Conceptual models and signifiers. Plus the design skills that you learned in the earlier projects. Now, here's a brief overview of the course. In Lesson 1, we'll ask you to go out and take some photographs. But we'll also show you how to take photographs that tell a story. Sometimes one will be enough, sometimes it might be four or five photographs. And then we'll learn how to critique them. Decide whether this is effective. Does it do a good job? In Lesson 2, time to construct something. We're going to have you do a surprising construction. One that, well, guess what? It'll really be pleasurable and fun. Unexpected. Lesson 3, we're going to put it all together. That's the capstone course. So in Lesson 3, you have a project that's going to put together all of the principles you've learned. And the projects that you've done before. Enjoy. Hey, Kristian, you caught it. I did. How come, how, what made it possible to catch? Well, it was light enough. It was grip-able. Yea. It's about the right size. Mm-hm. So, we call those features affordances. It's about the right size, you can flip it around, you can throw it and catch it, and, you know, you can even hide behind it, because it doesn't afford the transmission of light. So, affordance is very important. Wow. Thank you. Hey, there's something inside. How do you know? Well, I heard something inside when I shook it. And that means. That I have a model that, that there's object. We call those conceptual models. Oh, is it a gift? Open it. What are you looking for? I'm looking for something that tells me I can open it. [NOISE] because this lid doesn't open. Mm-hm. There's a tab here that tells me something. It slid out. A-ha, it signifies that you can open it there and we call that a signifier. [NOISE] Oh, you shouldn't have. It's okay. I'm Kristian Simsarian. And I'm Don Norman. And I'm Chelsey Glasson, and together, we'll be teaching the Design of Everyday Things. Look around you. Everything is designed. If you thought a designer was the one who helped you choose curtains, then we'll show you that it's broader and deeper. It's about how things look, how they work, and just as importantly, how they make you feel. And, we're going to give you the scientific principals behind good design. The things that make it understandable. You already know three. Affordances, signifiers, and conceptual models. We'll also help you take the first steps in designing the world around you, yourself. Design is a collaborative process. And to promote collaboration in this course, we've built a space where you and your fellow classmates can meet, discuss the course and share course deliverables for feedback. Let me give you a tour. To access the forum, just click on the Forum icon or the Start a Discussion button from any course page. The forum will open in a new tab. And you'll see that it's organized by categories for each lesson and the final project, in addition to a few other categories. Categories consist of instructor defined topics which you'll see are pinned to the top of the list in addition to topics started by students. After creating a user name, you're free to navigate interesting topics, post questions, and even answer some questions yourself. To post your response to a question, just click the reply button and start typing. At various times in the course, you'll want to upload deliverables to share with classmates. To do so, click the appropriate lesson or project category, navigate to the topic you want to address and remember, instructor initiated topics are always pinned to the top. Click the reply button, and stat typing. You can also upload photos or other files by selecting the upload button. Each udacity course page has a section titled discussions, and any questions found there are directly related to the information shown in the video on that page. You can add your own question to the course page by clicking the ask a question button, and typing in your question. If you get lost while using the forum, just click the home icon in the top left hand corner to come back to the forum home page. Now give it a shot, go to the forum and tell us why you're taking the Design of Everyday Things I'm with IDEO, one of the largest design companies in the, in the world. I'm with Tim Brown, the CEO of IDEO, and, Tim has written this very interesting book, Change By Design, which includes among other things, a big section on the importance of design thinking. So Tim, design thinking. One of the points you argue, is that it doesn't just make you a better designer, it makes you better at anything. Tell us about that. I've always thought as, the one of the wonderful things about being a, being a designer is not just that I get to lots, work on lots of exciting projects, but it helps me in my life, right? So I, and when I want something as simple I'm going to throw a dinner party for some friends so I start. Instead of just turning up at, you know, 7 o'clock and thinking about what I'm going to make. I actually design that, I try and design that experience. I think well who am I going to bring together and what's the space going to be like and how does the food and the space work together. All of these things that I naturally think about as a designer. And I think that's what design thinking does for you. It's a set of tools that allows you to approach life, particularly the parts of life where it might be advantageous to solve the problem differently, that allows you to approach that with some level of confidence because you got some ways of going about it. And we have many, we're taught at school many ways of analyzing problems, of put, picking them apart and studying little pieces of them. Often that's very valuable. But, but design thinking gives you a different way of tackling a problem. Often, often ones that are centered around the needs of the people you're trying to solve for. That might be yourself. It might be a customer in in if, if, if you're in a professional environment, it might be you're colleagues. Int in in a work, work environment. It's centered around that. And so it starts with thinking hard, looking hard, listening hard and trying to study people. And understand, in this instance, wh, what their issues might be, what their problems might be. w, how they're thinking, how they, how they are, how they are navigating the world or dealing with the world at, at, at, at hand. And then using that as the starting point for having ideas. Mm hm, I actually, I often describe it, don't solve the problem. In fact, as a consultant never solve the problem you're given, but figure out what the real problem is. Yeah, figure out what the question is. I mean, many of us think we're talk about, when people talk about creativity or design, I think it's all about solving the problem and, and being creative about that. But I find generally the most interesting solutions come out of the most interesting questions and, and so that insight about what the problem might really be, is often the most important than the biggest creative step. And so, if you just assume you know the question then especially if it's the same question that everybody else is, is asking. Then you'll probably get to the same answer that everybody it getting to. But if you study a little bit and think a little bit, and maybe look at it, look at the, look at things from a slightly different perspective, really get under the skin of the people that you are trying to serve, it's surprising how often you end up completely re-framing the question. And so, as you point out, this could be used by anybody, a business person, an artist, a journalist, anybody. Yeah. I mean, you, you can think about how you use it. I mean, one of the things I talk about in, in, in, in, in my book is, is ways of applying design thinking to your own life. I mean, think about your career. How can I apply a design thinking approach to my career, to the choices I make, or, or, or, absolutely how you apply it in your, in, in your, in your workplace. No matter what you do. You might, you might work in the finance department, have a company, and be thinking, well how could I be, find more creative solutions to the way that we, the processes that work within our organization. Or the way that we come together as, as, as, as people. And so I think whatever your background, if you have the, the tools to hand, the thinking tools to hand, and the confidence to use them. that, that, that design can be a great help. Thank you. The first part of understanding good design, is being a good observer. To help you become a skilled observer of design. This course consists of several observation exercises. For your first exercise, I want you to take a photo of a design you think is understandable. And a photo of a design you find confusing. Answer the following questions. What made the understandable design, understandable? What made the confusing example, confusing? Please share your examples and reflection, on the course discussion forum. Here's a picture of the seat heater control in my car. When I push the control, it prompts the highest temperature. And then I can push again to lower the temperature. This design is confusing to me because this is not in alignment with my conceptual model of how temperature controls should work. Most temperature controls I've encountered start with the lowest temperature. And then move to the highest temperature. I wonder why the designer designed it this way. What would your guess be? For the example of understandable design, here's my iPhone's text messaging feature. The design is pretty straight forward. The interface guides me through entering texts into the two required fields. And then once complete, the Send button is activated. It's hard to make a mistake here, in large part because it's easy to discover what to do, and because of the excellent feedback provided during interaction. That said, there's usually always room for improvement in design. How could this design be improved. And now back to Dawn with examples in the world. Let's try a simple exercise. See the object in the photo? That's a strange looking object. So let's see if you can figure out how it can be used simply by what you can see and infer from the photograph. Here are some possibilities. This doesn't exhaust the possibilities. Think of some yourself, and type them in the box below. Maybe it's an upside down candle holder and it can be moved by those three handles. Or, maybe it's a decorative flowerpot. Oh, it, it's, it's a cup for a three-handed person. Or, maybe it's pottery made by a drunk. You know, as William Shakespeare said, it's made by an idiot full of sounds and fury signifying nothing. If you want to, three people say want to drink from the same cup, but they each use a different handle. Then they drink from different spots on the rim. The multiple handles are signifiers as well as useful affordances for sharing. These are really useful, why they've dropped out of favor, I don't know. The only place where you can buy them, as far as I know, is the Plymouth Plantation in Plymouth, Massachusetts where they try to recreate 17th century living. [SOUND]. So I want you to think about the first few minutes or seconds. When you're interacting with a product for the first time. What do you typically do? You might play with it, look for directions. I don't know. You might even smell it. Basically, you're figuring out how to use it. And what supports that process? Well, signifiers and affordances. Here I have a chair. Which affords sitting. This affordance exists, because of the shape of the chair. Combined with the abilities and shape of the human body. The same chair does not afford sitting for an elephant. An affordance is the relationship between an object, such as a chair. And a person. Affordances enable particular kind of interaction between people and objects. And the presence of an affordance, is jointly determined by the properties of the object. And of the abilities of the person who is interacting with the object. This car shows two excellent examples of door design. So, black, so you can see that this is the handle and a space, you can insert the hand. So it makes it obvious. You put your hand in here and you pull. Now, over here, a vertical door handle. Again, nicely done. Space, makes it obvious. The hand can fit. Vertical slot. Put my hand in an pull. One car, two different door handles. Both well designed. See those three bars sticking up in the middle of the road? So why are they there? What are their affordances? Well, maybe they're for stretching and turning. Maybe you're supposed to run around them as fast as possible, in loops for five minutes. It's part of an exercise course. Or maybe you can lean your bicycles on them. Or maybe they they're stands for a net that you stretch between them, and play games. So what do you think? Affordances provide the opportunity for actions. Anti affordances, prevent otherwise possible actions. So these bars appear to be examples of anti affordances. Bars that prevent cars, trucks and other large vehicles, from driving on the road. And anti affordances, are quite useful in many situations. But, these bars only look like anti-affordances. They clearly signify non passage. But, but look at the photographs. While the vertical bars appear to signify that an automobile can't pass over them. In this case, they're fake. They're false anti-affordances. They signify non passage. But in fact, they allow it. How? Well they bend when a car passes over them. Or as shown in the photo, if someone steps on them. Signifiers, are communication devices. That tell people what to do, and where to do it. Think about it. People oftentimes, need some way of understanding a product or service they wish to use. Some sign of what it is for. What is happening, and what the alternative actions are. People search for clues, for any sign that might help them cope and understand. And these signs, are called signifiers. Let me illustrate the use of signifiers. How do you start and stop this video? Feel free to experiment. See that right pointing triangle, down there? That's a pretty universal symbol, to mean play. Click on me to play the video. And when you click on it, it changes to two vertical bars. Again, pretty universal symbol for pause. Click on me to stop the video. Now, how would you know that, before you ever experienced it? Usually you have to be told. Or sometimes they label it, play and pause. But once you've learned it, it's the same all over. So that simplifies things. But hey, there's more. Click any place on the screen, it stops the video. Click again, it starts it. Pretty neat, huh? But no visible signifier. How would you ever learn that? You just have to know. Oh, and while you're at it Double-click. What happens? Hm. So what do you think? These invisible signifiers that make it easier to do the thing. Is that good design, or bad design? You know, modern cars may still have a keyhole. But you don't have to use it. As long as the key is nearby, it senses that you're an authorized driver. So, how do I unlock this car? I just put my hand inside and watch, it unlocks. Nice. Really, simple. Easy. Turns on the interior lights too, so I can see. I can see inside when it's dark. [NOISE]. Now suppose I leave, and I want to lock the car. How do I do it? Well you can't see, but there's a little ridged area here. And if I touch it, watch. It locks. Oh. But I left all the windows open. And the sunroof open. Do I have to open the car, and go in and manually shut them? No, there's a secret way of shutting it. Secret, hm. See, if I hold my finger here for a little while. The windows shut. And the sunroof shuts. But it is a secret. How do you ever learn it? Well, it's in the manual. But who reads the manual? It's a big thick manual. People don't read the manual. I know lots of people who own this car. Who are not aware that they can shut all the windows and sunroof, without going back inside. Nice feature. Hard to know about it. That's clearly the door handle, but there's no perceived affordance. So it's a signifier that this is a handle, but it's only half a signifier. It tells where the handle is, but not what to do, so, I don't know, how do you open it? Hi, Don. How are you? What are you doing with my car? Trying to understand how to open it. The hell, what did you do? Well I have the key, so it knows that I'm coming, so it automatically opens. Oh, that's clever. This is a really good example of hiding a perceived affordance. Hiding, the signifier, because you don't need to have it there. The owner of the car knows how to use it, and when the owner of the car comes near with a key, it automatically opens, you can grab the handle. That's very clever design. For each of the three examples, say whether it's an example of an affordance, or a signifier. Barbed wire. A very high voltage wire with a sign saying. Danger: keep away. High Voltage. A traditional door knob. That was a trick question. We wanted to emphasize that affordances and signifiers are quite different concepts. They're independent. Affordances are the possible actions an actor can take upon an item in question. Signifiers are the signal. Signal conveyed to the person about the possible actions. Something can be in affordance or a signifier or both or neither. It could even be a signifier of something but not afford doing it. The correct answers to the questions therefore are, the barbed wire. Yeah, the barbs on the barbed wire, they're both signifiers and anti-affordances. The danger sign, yeah, that's a signifier. The site of the high voltage line? Well, that's a signifier to some people, but meaningless to others. And a very high voltage itself is an invisible affordance. It doesn't afford getting near. You'll kill yourself, because within, but for a high voltage, if you're within one meter about three feet, it can be fatal. But there's nothing to see. It's invisible, so the very high voltage is actually at invisible anti-affordance. The doorknob. It's a partial signifier and an affordance. The signifier is only partial because it indicates where to do the action, you know, pushing, or pulling, or turning, but not which action to do. So far, you've been looking for examples of useful affordances, useful signifiers, so now reverse it. Find examples of affordances or signifiers that are deliberately misleading, so they're false or invisible affordances, anti-affordances or signifiers. Find five examples of deliberately misleading cases. Want some examples? Almost anything done by a magician. You know, magicians are masters at maniuplating your attention, providing misleading signifiers, and misleading affordances. Secret doors. For example, hidden behind a book case that swings to the side when one of the books is pulled. Another one, many homes or business display fake video cameras and security warnings. They're trying to scare away criminals but without the expense of putting in a real camera or hiring a real security company. And I own a fake watch. Now, that is, it's a real watch. It tells good time. But it has extra buttons and dials that make it look like an expensive chronometer. The buttons don't even move, and the dials, well, they're just printed pictures of dials. It was given to me as a present, and it certainly fooled me. Hm. You know, I bet you're curious what the stuff you're learning has to do with real design. We've talked about affordances and signifiers and a little bit about conceptual models. Well, here's some real design. Let's, let's talk about it. See this? It's a tape dispenser. And we have the tape [SOUND] something designed at the end so it doesn't stick. And the holder, the dispenser and look at this. The packaging. The designer has to think it all through. It isn't enough to design the product. You have to design how it's mounted, the packaging, instruction manuals, even the box in which it shipped. That's kind of what's exciting about design, it's the whole system. One of the most important things we want you to learn from this course, is to develop the eye of a designer. So you should be walking around the world, looking all the time. Looking at things around you. Judging. Saying that's a really good example. Or ooh, that's a bad example. But when you do this, it's really good to document it Not only for your own benefit, because you want to show them to other people. You might want to show them to clients. You might want to give a talk. And illustrate the points. So you have to have pictures. And the pictures have to be effective. Show exactly the point you're trying to make, and tell a story. So it may take several pictures of the same object, to tell the story. So, in this next assignment, we're going to cover that. So let's start off though, with what it takes to make a good picture. First of all the camera. You know, doesn't do any good to have a great camera if it isn't with you. So the most important aspect about a camera is, have it with you. So take a look at this one. Cellphone camera. It's always with you, that'a a virtue. The problem is, it's not really a good camera. It can't be, it's just too small. So if you want to take a picture, and the object is really small. And you want to enlarge it. Nah, cellphone camera isn't good enough. But, in an emergency this is the best camera to use. I use it all the time. The really best camera would be something like this. This is a single lens reflex. It takes high quality pictures, it's a very big detector. High quality lens. But it's big, it's bulky. So I myself, don't use it. I would love to. But I just can't imagine carrying it with me all the time. So I compromise. I carry a medium-size camera. Carefully chosen, so it's of the highest quality. Yet small enough though, that it will fit in my pocket. Or, it fits in a bag on my belt. Has a good lens. Has a fairly large sensor. So it takes high quality pictures that I can blow up. And all the pictures, in the design of everyday thing that I took, were taken, with this camera. Second point. Take lots of pictures. Don't take one picture. And don't sit there and just try to take one or two. Professionals might take hundreds of pictures just to get one. So take lots of pictures from different angles, different zoom lenses. Closer, further away. And with different lighting. Don't use flash. Flash wipes out all the details. But make sure turn on all the lights. And maybe use a piece of white paper as a reflector. Do whatever you can do, to light it as well as you can. Naturally. You know, the point about taking these pictures is to tell a story, to communicate. Don't try to win an art contest. Don't try to win a photography contest. Don't have artistic lighting that puts some things in shadow or in the dark. We want to show the design features. What's really important for the designer to understand, or for you to tell the story to your audience? So let's take a, let's take a look. Here's a picture of a train station. I wanted to show that accidental social cues can serve as signifiers. You know when you rush to the train platform, how do you know if you missed the train? Well if there are people waiting, you probably didn't miss it. If it's empty, oops maybe you did. So to tell the story I had to get to the train platform long before the train was scheduled to arrive, carefully lean against the post sign, wasn't going to change my position, and take pictures as the people arrived. More and more pictures, because I didn't know when the train would come. When the train finally came, I then waited until the train left and the platform was empty and I took the last picture. Was it worth it? Yes. To tell the story of the destination control elevator, took a lot of pictures and some editing. And even editing a label to understand the picture The photos took a lot of work with a photo application, because I had to crop the photos. So you could put them together properly. And I cropped the photos, so when I wanted to show the controls, you saw only the control and nothing else that was distracting. So, four different pictures tell the story. But once again, it was worth it. Sometimes a single photo is enough to make the point. You don't always have to have a sequence of photos. So here's one, a picture of push and pull doors. Same hardware in both doors, yet one is push and one is pull. I crop the original photograph and I darkened the glass, so the objects behind the window were not as visible. That's okay to do. It would not be ethical to fake it. To put objects in that really weren't in the scene, or to take away things that really were present. Here's your first project. Go out and find a signifier that's confusing to you or others. Document that with photographs, like you just learned. So here's your challenge. How are you going to fix it? How would you make it better? How could it be less confusing? Take materials that you find anywhere, and improve upon it, so it's not confusing. Then, submit all that, and later I'll show you a solution for a signifier that I found confusing, and how I decide to fix it. Well, here we are in my example of a confusing signifier. It's this door plate thing. Well, actually, I'm not sure what to call it because this is a door handle and this, I thought, was something I could push on to open the door, and I can't open it. No matter how hard I push it, I can't, well, it turns out, it's not a door. This is a wall. A glass wall. And they put this plate here and I thought I could push on it and I can't, so that's a confusing signifier. Now let's look at that for a second. Why is it so? Well, it seems that there's a lock mechanism here and the lock mechanism, see inside, is about this big. Well, I think the designer wanted to have some symmetry so they made these two plates the same size, but in so doing so, they have kind of an aesthetic form there, but they've created a function or a false signifier that is confusing. So, how might we make this better? Well, let's see. Let's assume we want to hide the lock. Maybe we just want to make this smaller and keep the symmetry here. So we might make a plate this big. That would be really too small to put my whole hand on it. I don't think I would confuse that for a plate. Or, if I just wanted to hide the lock, maybe I could make something really small, like that. Either way, it would be a little bit better, because I feel like if I push this too hard, I might actually do some damage to this glass wall. So, here's the end of lesson 1. We've learned a couple of things, affordances and signifiers. For many people, this is surprising, its a new word for something they've walked around the world with thinking about, but not having a term for it. What was new and surprising for you? Hey Christian, want some water? Hey Don, yes please. Sure. That's a fancy teapot. Yeah, it's one of my favorites. Oh I'm sorry it doesn't have much water. I'd like a little bit more than that. Well here why don't you fill it and I want to explain this coffee pot. Sure. So. This is a joke. It's one of my favorite jokes. It's sometimes called Coffee Pot for Masochists, it was done originally by a French artists and this was a copy made just for me. And I've used it for the cover of my books, I love it so much. You know, what's nice about it is it's obvious that you grab the handle, it's obvious that that's the spout, but it's also obvious that it's the wrong way, it won't work. The conceptual model is clear and it's clear that it, well, that it's a joke. It's impossible on purpose. What's a matter? How you doing? Well I, it doesn't have a place to fill. Yeah. I know. So I'm not sure I recommend that. Okay. Then the other choice is at the buttom. Hm. Which I'm going to try. Uh-huh. Good. Seems to work. So far. Hm. That's a funny way to use a teapot. Yeah, that doesn't seem to work. That's not the way I used it before. Hm, hey. Why doesn't the water drip out? Well, look at that. [SOUND] So, how do you think it works? What's your conceptual model for the way it works? It's a mystery. Hm, it's supposed to be a mystery. It's called a puzzle-pot. The Chinese invented a togo about 400 years ago, and this is a copy. And, you're right, there's no obvious way to put the water in you don't really want to put it in there, and you turn it upside down and there's a hole [LAUGH] sure, but come on. You pour the water there, you turn it upside down, the water will flow out. So, yet, if I do that, whoop, where does it, how does it work? You're not suppose to be able to figure it out, that's the whole point, that's why it's called a puzzle-pot. So, this was designed by a trickster. A good designer, and this is the challenge for design. Will design things such that somebody can have an effective conceptual model and understand how it works. Or, go out of the way so you don't have a model. [LAUGH] If, in fact, that's the goal. You know, to fool you. And the only way a designer can communicate is through the objects that they design. And there is the challenge, and what this lesson is about. For the Chinese Puzzle Pot is, is fun. You can pour water in the bottom. And turn it upside down, and no water falls out. How do you think it works? So draw a picture of the inside of the pot showing how it works. Now remember, you have to solve two problems. First, if you pour the water in the bottom, it doesn't come out of a spout. When you turn it around, the water does not come out of the hole in the bottom. But you can then poor it out of the spout. So, your diagram, your answer to how it works. Has to solve both those puzzles. So, you want to know how the Chinese puzzle pot works? Well, I'm not going to tell you. It's a puzzle. I want it to remain a puzzle. You figure it out. You might even ask some friends to try it, and listen to their explanations. But go to the forum. That's the place where you talk about it. That's where all of you might get together. And maybe, the person who does figure it out might share the answers with you. They might also share some wrong answers. So, try the forum. This is the kitchen area of the Edacity. The coffee machines and two refrigerators, well let's go look at them. Look inside the refrigerator compartment, two controls. One labeled freezer, one labeled refrigerator with numbers four, two, what does that mean? How do you use it, how do you set it? It's a bad conceptual model. Now interestingly enough, Edacity has two refrigerators, and they have different models. The other one has the correct conceptual model. Here, let me show you. If a refrigerator. The control's on the outside. One marked freezer, the temperature four degrees Fahrenheit. The other marked refrigerator with a temperature 37 degrees Fahrenheit. Makes it really easy to set. Really easy to understand exactly what is happening. The good conceptual model which we also discussed in the lesson. Don just provided examples of a good conceptual model. And an ineffective conceptual model, using the two refrigerators at Udacity. We'll talk more about why the ineffective example, was ineffective in a moment. But first, let's step back. And talk about what conceptual models are. So a conceptual model is an explanation. Usually highly simplified, of how something works. Sometimes conceptual models are inferred from a product itself. Sometimes they're learned over a, a course of time. In other situations they're passed down from person to person. They're really good at helping people predict, how something will work. And what to do in case something goes wrong. I think conceptional models will like a lot more sense, if I provide an example. Here's the water cycle model. Which you were likely taught years ago while in school. As you can see, it explains that water in the oceans evaporates. Forms clouds. And then goes back to earth as rain, ice or snow. And eventually, through rivers and streams, the water goes back into the ocean. This conceptual model is a highly simplified explanation. But for most purposes, it's efficient. People form conceptual models all the time. And it's the responsibility of the designer, to help the person form a useful conceptual model. It doesn't have to be complete. It can be an approximation. But, it has to be usable. In the absence of clues from the designer. The person is very likely to develop an inaccurate model. Which means they will eventually be confused. For your next exercise, find a reasonably complex activity that you frequently do. And explain your conceptual model for it. You may use a combination of text or drawings. Organization of your kitchen, how you sort things in your room. Or the operation of the equipment in your entertainment center. Are all good examples of everyday situations, that can be amazingly difficult to explain to others. You can use one of these examples, or choose one of your own. You know, one of the things we, both of us have talked about for a long time is the importance of a conceptual model. True. And, the fact that, you know, the designer has some model of what this thing is, and the person using it is trying to figure out what the model is, and the only thing to go on is the device itself. And, you said, you had trouble with this. And it looks to me like it's a pretty straightforward bowl, so what's the story? Well I, I came across this at a hotel in, in Stockholm, Sweden. They had a whole big stack of them jumbled up for us to put our breakfast cereal in. And so, I made the mistake of putting my breakfast cereal in it. I happen to have some cereal here. [SOUND] I poured the the cereal into the bowl, and then I added some milk. And I do like my milk, so. All the way up to the rim. Yeah, because that's just the way I like it and then I put it down on the table. [NOISE] [LAUGH]. Because the base of the bowl is at an angle to where the bowl is. Now that does not require an, a warning notice. That requires a redesign. So the conceptual model of a bowl is that it's flat. Yes. And horizontal. And you. [CROSSTALK] And that's what people expect. And as long as you're holding it this way, it looks like it is, right? Yes, and particularly the way it was jumbled one bowl on top of the other. Right, so, and actually. [CROSSTALK] And there was nothing that let you know. You were, you were holding it in your hand when you filled it. If you had filled it while it was on the table, Right. Then it would have been okay. Yes. Except, you maybe couldn't have put as milk in as you want. Yeah, but this is a breakfast buffet, so you're standing there with the bowl in your hand. Now what was it, it was intended for was to make a nice presentation for having the chef fill this bowl and then a waiter bring it out to your table. So they pressed it into a different service. The designer has a clear conceptual model, of how a product works. But when users interact with a product, designers aren't present. Users have to get their conceptual model from the product system image. When interacting with a product, we can't talk to designers to understand their conceptual model. So we rely on whatever information we can find out about the product. >From it's shape, form, signifiers, affordances. And even instruction manuals. This information combined, is what we call the system image. Go out in the world and find a product, you think provides a clear system image. Share your example via the discussion forum, in whatever format you like. Here's an example of a product I think provides a clear system image. What if you were in a meeting room or cafeteria, where someone was having a heart attack? The room had a heart defibrillator on the wall, which you're seeing here. But let's say you had never seen or used one before. What would you do? Those who designed the device aren't present, no medical personnel or trained responders are around, and anxious helpers don't have time to read a manual, not even a simple one. Here's a product where designers have to communicate the proper model of operation quickly. So what you're seeing here is the solution the design firm IDEO came up with for defibrillators. The device walks users through three steps, each clearly marked and numbered. The screen, visible here, with the number two, gives specific instructions as users are interacting with the device. And as you can see from this diagram, two electrodes needs to be placed on the patient and the diagram clearly communicates where they need to be placed. It's pretty straight forward. You know, Chelsea, I bet our students are very curious about what this device is that you're wearing. Yeah. An external fixator, that's what it's called? That's correct. Yeah. It's kind of hard to miss. When I was a kid, I injured the growth plate in my arm. And as a result, my humerus stopped growing. So I was missing two and a half inches of bone. And recently I had what's called limb lengthening surgery. Which involved an orthopedic surgeon re-breaking my humorous. I know, it sounds awful. Attaching this device, and then ever so slightly over the course of several months, I would make adjustments to the device. Which would spread apart the bone and as it healed it, just filled in that missing two and a half inches. So, you have to make adjustments to this. Yeah. And you know, one of the things we talk about is that whenever a design has to have external labels. Somebody has to put on special labels. That's a sign of poor design. And I see there are several labels you have, and what makes them even worse is that. You can't even see them. I can't. So making adjustments is a very intimidating process. If I do it wrong there can be serious consequences, so I asked my doctor to help me out by adding these labels, but when I left his office I realized, oh, I can't see the labels. So, yeah, I sit in front of a mirror and look at the them, just to remind me which direction and which bolts I need to adjust. So you have to take a hex wrench and put it in here. I do, in this tiny little hole. And you can't see it as you do that. I can't. Yep. And some of the holes are so close together that I can put the wrench in the wrong one. So, you know, this is a good example of some of the design challenges we face in the real world. On the one hand you'd say, well, why isn't that design so much easier for the patient than the physician? On the other hand, you know, if you're making a million devices, it's fairly easy to spend a lot of time and effort to make it easy for the people who use it. But I don't know how many of these are made. Not very many. And probably each one has to be specially tailerod for the patient. For your particular problem. You're right. And so, there probably, there's no easy way to fix it. I, in fact, I though about it and I don't come up with an easy solution to make it easy for all the people involved. External fixator is strange name. This would be an interesting challenge for you, think about it. If you want to learn more about this particular device, go to the instructor's note, it will tell you how to get to the website to the company that makes these parts. Suppose you've just returned to your home on a cold, winter day. The house is cold. So you want to get to a comfortable temperature as quickly as possible. Suppose that's say, 73 degrees Fahrenheit or 23 Celsius. What temperature should you set the thermostat to? Very high, like 90 degrees Fahrenheit or 35 Celsius. You know, to get it up there fast. Or set it to what I really want it to end up with, like 73 Fahrenheit or 23 Celsius. Explain the reason for your choice. In other words, what's your conceptual model of how the heater works? The answer as to which way you should work it is, well it all depends, that there is no real correct answer. because it's possible for your home to work with either model. If the thermostat determines how hot the heater is, then the first answer is correct. you know, set it high first. That'll get you to the correct temperature as quickly as possible. But, you know, that's not how most homes work. In most homes, the second answer is correct, because the home heater either turns all the way on, or all the way off. We call that bang, bang control, all the way one way or all the way the other. The thermostat turns the heat on full until it reaches the set point, at which point it turns it off. So, setting the temperature too high doesn't do any good. It doesn't speed things up and worse, if you forget to turn it back, well the house keeps getting hotter and hotter and hotter. Wasting energy and maybe making you uncomfortable by now being too hot. For this exercise, we want you to try to fix the problem with a home heating system. Design a system that conveys the proper conceptual model. See, existing home heating systems make it really difficult, or impossible, to determine the proper conceptual model for it's operation. The designers didn't seem to consider this important. They didn't provide an accurate system image. So, fix it. Show how you would design heating system that provided the proper user model, conveying the correct conceptual model, so people would never again set their thermostats too high or too low, in an effort to speed up the process. What's the answer? How do you fix it? Well, it's a hard problem, and there are many possible ways. And the only way to know whether you provided a good one, is to test it, to show it to other people, and see if they understand how the home meter system works. That's what the forum is for. Post your answers on the forum and discuss it. See what other people come up with. See how well your solution is understood, or what ideas you might get from other people. So here we are, at another reflection point. Now that you've learned about conceptual models. I want you to go out in the world. And find an example of a device, who's system image communicates the wrong conceptual model to users. Upload your example to the discussion forum, via photos or sketches. And provide a brief written explanation of why you chose it. As you have just learned, a key important property for design is to communicate to people how it should be used, how it works. So now it's your turn. Christian is about to ask you to do a most interesting design project. Alright. In this project, we're actually going to build something. So here's what we're going to do. We're going to take a box, any box. And do anything you want to it. So that the box, if you put in on a table and anyone passed by. They would be invited, without any instructions. To rub it and turn it. And grab it. Next, we're going to find out if people actually do, what you intended them to do, with your box. Hey Christian. Hey Chelsea. Your box is done. Yeah. What's going on here? Well I, I've gotten some feedback and I was just wondering. Yeah? You want to try it? Oh, sure. Wow. Where do I start? Okay. You tell me. Well, the first thing that stands out is this guy here. And I immediately want to lift it. Okay. I'm turning this around. Oh gosh, this looks dangerous, but I still want to touch it. kind of turning this around here. There's some text here. It looks like it's telling a bit of a story. There was a little pig, he was chasing a wolf. It makes me kind of want to turn the box, here. Oh, and sparkles. Who doesn't love sparkles? Of course I want to touch this. Hmm. Lots going on. Yeah. And as we saw, people did various things with it. Mm-hm. Well, there was a few things that I did intentionally here. One is, that I made these finger holes. Just the right size, and you'd grab it, like a bowling ball. Well that's, human size. And here, it's a little tempting to kind of touch it. And maybe somebody would, want to, flitter with those. And the balls kind of feel nice and well somewhere, here's the squishy thing that you play with and you can even pick the box up from that, and there's a tail. So why do we grab this? It's got an affordance for, for grabbing. And there's one more thing. I'm using the power of story here, because it says once upon, and you turn it. Once upon a time, there was a little pig, who was chasing a wolf down a rabbit hole. Yeah. [SOUND] There's my box. You know Christian, I love that cube exercise, and and the things that the students came up with was just wonderful but, I mean, so what? I mean, it's, it's, you can't do anything with it. What's the use of it? Well, the use is in helping students understand what it means to be a designer, what it means to actually design these affordances. And the signifiers that. Yeah, but I'm worried. So many designs I see are this wonderful cube and one thing, but they actually nobody can understand them when they don't function very well. Well function is only part of it. I mean you, you've gotta bring in the other human elements too. I mean of course there's meaning and function. Yeah. And then there's usable, it's also delightful. So the real trick is to combine them. So we've been talking about things like affordance and constraints and that makes it very functional and usable and understandable but it's not necessarily interesting. And conceptual models, like how do you actually know how to use something. Yeah, but that doesn't, so what you're trying to tell me, the cube model is about making it more than that. Yeah, and we're living in an era when this object, the phone, wasn't very much ten years ago, wasn't much to talk about. It did things for you, it made phone calls. But now it's become a big part of your life, and a lot of that. Is the enjoyment of using it. Yeah, and designers have made it even delightful at times. So what we have to do is we have to manage to combine the wonderful fun with the cube, with the functionality of the other principles. Yeah, and that's how you do design, it's about all these things, and you've now taken the first steps at designing the world yourself. Welcome to Lesson 3. You've now learned four basic fundamental concepts. Affordances, signifiers, conceptual models, and system image. In this lesson, we're going to learn two more principles, based on the gulf of execution. How do I know what I can do? And the gulf of evaluation. How do I know what happened? This leads to two concepts. Discoverability and feedback. Then we're going to take all six of these concepts, and put them together. So in the very last project of this lesson. You're going to actually build something. Something useful. Incorporating all that you've learned in the course. Let me show you something with my car. You know how sometimes you walk up to the trunk and your hands are full, well here's how you do it. That's really cool. want to try? Can I try? [SOUND] So were you kicking something? How do you think it works? Is there a particular place? Mm. So what do you think is going on? Oh, oh, there it goes. So what did you do? I'm not sure what I did. You think you could do it again? Well, I don't know. Let's see. Yeah. So what's- I don't know what I did. So what's your conceptual model of what's going on? [LAUGH] Maybe there's a sensor there, and I have to, Somewhere. Yeah, somewhere under there. It looks like. You know, this is a really good example, if you like, it's a good example of a bad example of crossing the gulf of execution and the gulf of evaluation. The gulf of execution. Well I'm suppose to kick or something, but where and how? How fast, or do I kick or just wave my foot? And the gulf of execution, well I did it and nothing happened. Now what am I suppose to do? Really good example of bad design. Two sources of difficulty, when using your product, are due to the lack of discoverability and feedback, knowing what to do, then wondering what happened. These two difficulties result from the huge gulf between a person's goal and the means of achieving them, this is called the gulf of execution. There's also the gulf between assessing the state of the world, and trying to determine if that state matches the initial goal, and this is called the gulf of evaluation. Figuring out what actions are possible, during the gulf of execution, is all about discoverability. And knowing what just happened during the gulf of evaluation is about feedback. Ever buy a new product and then not know how to work it? Well, likely because it lacks discoverability. Ever stand at an elevator or pedestrian traffic light? Pushing the button, but not knowing if the system noticed, so you push over and over again, that's because of lack of feedback. The role of the designer is to help people bridge the two gulfs, making the possible actions discoverable and providing feedback along the way. For the first six months as a Udacity employee, I thought one of our coffee machines was broken. Because it didn't work immediately upon me pushing a specific button. What I eventually learned from a colleague, was that the coffee machine needed time to warm up prior to processing my request. This important step wasn't part of my conceptual model. Hence, the misunderstanding. The coffee machine failed me, by not providing appropriate feedback. It should have let me know that it had received my request. And was taking time to warm up. We'll cover the important topic of feedback more, soon. Crossing the gulf of execution, and the gulf of evaluation, involves users asking themselves a series of questions. For each of the seven questions, indicate whether the question occurs at the users goal. The action done to the world. The Gulf of Executiuon. Or the Gulf of Evaluation. What do I want to accomplish? Or what is my goal? What action can I do now? How do I do it? And after I've taken action, what just happened? What does what just happened, mean? Am I okay with what just happened? Have I accomplished my goal? It's important to note that typical behavior, is not about going through all stages in a linear fashion. We tend to weave back and forth when trying to accomplish a goal. And not all of the activity In the seven stages of action, is conscious. Goals tend to be conscious. But even they may be subconscious. The seven stages of action that are made up of the Gulfs of Execution and Evaluation. Provide a helpful checklist for designers to use when creating something. And next, Don introduces important design rules, that are linked to the seven stages of action. What do I want to accomplish, is the question users ask when establishing a goal. What are my alternatives, what could I do now, and how do I do it, occur at the gulf of execution when users are trying to figure out how to execute. Have I accomplished my goal, what does it mean, and what happened, are questions users ask during the gulf of evaluation, in order to determine what happened in response to an action taken. No question is asked at the world, the world is simply where the action occurred. So time for another reflection. For this reflection, I want you to go out. And find an example, where you got stuck crossing either the gulf of execution, or the gulf of evaluation. And you can share your example, via whatever format you'd like. So photos, video, text. As long as your example clearly communicates, where you got stuck and why. So, here's a tip while you're going out in the world, and looking for difficult situations. Look for a place where somebody has applied, maybe a hand-made label. That gives additional instructions on how to do something. This is often a, users call for help. This wasn't designed right. I need extra help. So maybe there's a Post-it note on something, that gives some additional explanation. It might also be an official sign. So here's a few examples. One, well this door is an emergency exit. But it actually isn't clear that it's an emergency exit. So somebody had to hand make a sign, that said don't go out this door. Or the alarm will sound. Well, then people might actually be confused. because if there was an emergency, they wouldn't know whether they can go out that door or not. And look at this coffee maker. Well for some reason, and maybe it's a cultural constraint here. Is that red means on. No sorry, I got that wrong. Red actually means off. Boy, that's confusing. So they added a handmade label here, that said. The red light when it's on, means the coffee machine is off. Good designers emphasize with the people they're designing for. That's what the seven questions that you discovered with Chelsea are all about. Your job is to make sure that the people using the product, can always find the answers. Now, those seven questions complete the formal course material. One thing left. To put it all together. That's what the final project is about. It's a fun one. You get to put together all the things you've learned. Plus the design skills from the other projects, into a real project. Something you can actually build into a real, manufactured product. Have fun.