&gt;&gt; Hi I'm Sandra D'souza. &gt;&gt; And I'm Chris Aiden. &gt;&gt; Welcome to class, I love math and I can't wait to show the wonders of algebra with you. I've been teaching math for over 7 years and this is a totally new experience for me as it is probably for you. I hope you're as excited as I am about what's to come. &gt;&gt; This course is broken into 12 units. Each unit consists of lessons with a series of videos. &gt;&gt; You will find interactive questions within these videos, as well as practice problems at the end of each lesson. The purpose of these questions is not to test your intelligence, it's to make you think. &gt;&gt; Here's an example of what you can expect. &gt;&gt; Which of these do you think successful students do? Check any of these reasons that apply. You might not have chosen all these answers, which is totally okay. I think all of these are great, and here's why. We know successful students make mistakes. More importantly successful students learn from their mistakes. In this course even if you don't get a problem right on the first time, you should definitely try again. If you try the problem again, you're likely to get the correct answer. &gt;&gt; Then, you can also go back and write yourself a note to remember what went wrong. The thing that I want to emphasize, is that mistakes are okay. You might even find some mistakes that we made while making the videos. While we try to bring you the best material, we aren't perfect. In the first unit, you'll even see my own handwriting and my drawings improve. I made a ton of mistakes while making these videos, but for me, the most important part was to reflect and learn from those mistakes. To be successful in this course, we also recommend you take notes while watching the videos. These notes can be helpful for you to solve practice problems, and also help you review content later. It's a great idea to break up your notes into individual lessons. That way, you can remember what you learned from each video segment. Third, research tell us that the most learning occurs while working in groups. Students don't succeed just by working harder or studying longer. They do better by talking about that. By discussing it, by practicing it, and teaching others. Usually from lecture, you only remember 5% of what you hear. From reading, you only remember 10%. Audio and visual 20, and demonstrations 30%. These are considered to be passive ways of learning because they don't rely on much from you to, well, learn. When you participate on the forms, or complete practice problems after videos, you're becoming an active learner. These are the best things you can do throughout the course to help yourself learn. And if you're really mastered something, that means you can teach anyone. That's the best. Fina lly, if you're half listening or losing focus, just stop. Take a break and come back and try again. You want to avoid guessing through the quizzes or trying to rush through the material. One thing we know about learning is that there's an actual physical need for time to process new material. So give each question your full attention and your thoughts. Congratulations on completing your first question. We hope you have a better idea about how to succeed in this course. When you're ready, come join us in visualize algebra. Here are some shaded images. Notice that some of the parts are shaded and some are not. What I want you to do is count the number of parts that are shaded, and count the number of parts in total, in the whole. You can enter your answers in these boxes. So for example, for the first one, I know that I have 1, 2, 3 parts that are shaded out of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 parts total in the whole. Okay for this one you had 5 parts shaded, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, out of 12 parts total. If you count up all the triangles you'll get 12. Here I have 3 boxes that are shaded out of 10 boxes in the whole temple, and in this cross I have 7 triangles that are shaded out, of 20 triangles total. I got 20 really quickly because I noticed that there are 4 triangles in 1 box, and I had 5 different boxes, so I just did 4 times 5, which is 20. These numbers are actually really important. They can represent a fraction. They can represent a parts of a whole. So, for example, for the circle I have 3 parts out of 8 or 3 8ths. The three represents my numerator, it's how many parts I have. The eight represents my denominator, it's how many pieces or parts are in the whole figure. Fractions don't always have to refer to shapes, they can refer to other things, and we'll look at this later in the course. But for now, we're just going to focus on these images and shapes. So 3 8ths is a fraction for this circle, I want to you find the fraction for these others. You can enter your answer in these boxes. 3 8ths can also be written as 3 slash 8. It's another way of writing a fraction. That's how you should type it in when you type it into these boxes. Okay. The first one should have been 5/12 or 5 divided by 12. The next one 3/10, and the last one 7/20. Let's take a look at some other images. Here I have some circles. I've already written the fractions below each circle. I want you to check the images that have the same shaded area as the one over here. Check the circles that have the same area as one-half. I know 2 4th is the same thing as one-half because I can see visually that their areas are the same. 2 3rd is not equal to one-half. I know that I have half of the circle here that's already shaded. So, this little extra bit would be more than one-half. 3 4th is also not equal to one-half. I know that one-half is this much, and here I already have one-half, and a little bit more. 3 6th is equal to one-half. I think about moving this one piece here over to the empty space here. Here's what it would look like. There. Now I have 3 6th, it's the same as one-half. 4 10th is not equal to one-half. I know I'm missing one extra piece to get to my half, so that won't work. Okay, so based on these answers, I know that 1 half is equal to 2 4ths. I also know that one half is equal to 3 6th. So how exactly did I do that? How did I change this into this? Well, if I look at this shape and this one, I notice that I just doubled the number of pieces that are in this shape. And I doubled the number of pieces that I have shaded. So I doubled both. The numerator and the denominator, and I got 1 times 2 which is 2 and 2 times 2 which is 4 or 2 4ths. Now let's look between the one half and the 3 6ths. This time I took my shaded pieces and I tripled them, so I multiplied them by 3. I also took the total number of pieces, I had 2. And now I have a total number of pieces of 6. So I also tripled my number of pieces. 1 times 3 is 3. And 2 times 3 is 6. But let's think about why we can do this. I know 2 divided by 2 is really just 1. So I'm just multiplying one half by a form of 1. I'm not changing the value one half. I'm just changing what the fraction looks like. The same is true down here. I'm taking one half and multiplying it by a different form of 1. And I'll get 3 6ths. So we know one half is equal to 2 4ths which is equal to 3 6ths. These are all equivalent fractions. Okay, but let's look a little bit closer at this 2 over 2 and 3 over 3. Here in this first picture I have 2 out of 2 parts. Notice that its really one whole circle. I have 1 half and 2 halves. Here I have 1 3rd of the circle, 2 3rd of the circle and altogether will be 3 3rds of the circle. Here I have 1 4th, 2 4th, 3 4th, and 4 4th. The same is true with the 5ths and 6ths. You can just count up the pieces. So, the numerator counts how many pieces we have. The denominator counts the types of pieces we have. So, for example, with 6, I have 1 6th, 2 6th, 3 6th, 4 6th, 5 6ths, and 6 6ths, or one whole. I know all these circles really represent one. They're all equal. They represent one whole circle. So, let's put all this together with a little quiz. What would the numerator would have been for 1/2 to be in 10ths? And also, I want you to write in your own equivalent fraction for 1/2. You can write any fraction in this box. You want to put our answer like 3 slash 4, or 3 divided by 4, 3/4. You can put your answer in as a number, a slash, and then another number, just make sure that it's equal to 1/2. If you put 5 here, great work. You should have multiplied this number by 5 over 5. I know that 5 divided by 5 is still 1. 2 times 5 is 10. 1 times 5 is 5. For the equivalent fraction over here, you could have put a bunch of different things. Maybe you put 50 over 100, or 30 over 60, or 13 over 26. Whatever you do, just make sure you multiply 1/2 by the same number. Any of these would have worked. Alright, let's make this a little bit more challenging. I'm going to show you some shaded images. And then I want you to write the missing parts of the fraction. So for example, I know this image has 3/4, or 3 out of 4 pieces shaded. This other image has one, two, three, four, five, six out of 8 pieces shaded. I know that these two fractions are actually equal. I want to think about moving this piece here over into this empty region here, and then my figures would match. And really what I did is I doubled the number of shaded pieces I have. I split up each piece into two parts. Also, I doubled every piece As I have, because in total I have eight new pieces here so I multiply the total number of pieces 4 by 2 to get 8 Here are some images that have been shaded. What I want you to do is figure out what parts of the fractions are missing. What numbers should go in the numerators and the denominators? You can put your answers in these boxes. Go ahead. For this first one you have four pieces that are shaded out of sixteen total. four sixteenths is the same as 1 4ths. I can think about moving these three pieces over into this region. I move this one here, this one here and this one here, I'll get one triangle just like I have over here. This is what it would look like. For the circles, I have two out of three circles shaded. So 2 3rds. On this side, I have one, two, three, four, five, six pieces shaded, out of three, six, nine. So I know 2 3rds is the same as 6 9ths. I could also think about moving this piece over here and moving this piece over here, and I'd have two full circles shaded and one circle left empty. It would look like this. Okay on this one, I know I have two pieces shaded out of six, here I have four pieces shaded out of twelve I know two sixths is the same thing as 4 12ths I can think about shading this piece and moving it here, this one here and this one here. That way I'd have 2 6ths and 4 12ths What's also interesting is that both 2 6ths and 4 12ths is really 1 out of 3, or 1 3rd, these are all equivalent fractions. For the last one I have 3 out of 7 pieces and in this last one I have 6 out of 14 pieces. So 3 7ths is the same as 6 14ths. Nice work on that quiz. Okay, for this quiz, what I want you to do is simplify these fractions. You're going to simplify these fractions and then pair it with the image that it matches. For example, when I reduce 6/8 I got 3/4. I would look at my images and then I see, oh, f, I have 1, 2, 3, out of 4. So f would be the answer for 6/8. You could put your answer in these boxes. I know 6 is the same thing as 2 times 3, and 9 is the same thing as 3 times 3. I can reduce an equivalent of 1. 3 divided by 3 makes 1. So I have 2/3. So let's see, 2/3, that would be e. Alright, for 4 and 12, I know 4 goes into 4 and 4 goes into 12. So I'm going to have 4 times 1 and 4 times 3. Here, I have 4 divided by 4. I know these are factors that appear in both the numerator and the denominator so I can reduce these to 1. 1 times 1 is 1, 1 times 3 is 3, so 1/3. Let's see, 1/3 would be d. For 9/15, I divide 9 and 15 by 3. So, I know 9 is the same thing as 3 times 3, 15 is 3 times 5. Again, I have an equivalent of 1, 3 divided by 3 makes 1. So, I'm left with 3/5. 3/5 would be answer choice c, I have 3 pieces out of 5. For 10/12, I'm going to divide them both by 2. I know 10 divided by 2 is 5, and 12 divided by 2 is 6. I didn't show the work here, but I was just factoring out 2 over 2. So, I get answer choice b, I have 5 out of 6 pieces. For 9/12, I'm going to write 9 as 3 times 3, and 12 as 3 times 4. Again, I have the 3 divided by 3 which makes 1, so I get 3/4. 3/4 would be f. And finally, I have 8 divided by 24. This one might have been a little trickey. I can think of 8 as 2 times 4, and 24 as 6 times 4. Notice, I have 4 divided by 4, so I can cancel those to make 1, and then I have 2 times 1, which is 2. And 6 times 1, which is 6. 2, 6. But I can still simplify this fraction. I know 2 can be written as 2 times 1, and 6 can be written as 2 times 3. 2 divided by 2 makes 1, so I get 1/3. Hmm, that seemed like a lot of math. I could've probably gotten to this answer quicker. I know my answer choice should be d, but let's see how I could have done it faster. You notice how I canceled a 4 over 4 and a 2 over 2. Well, really, that would have been the same thing as 4 times 2 which is 8, and the 4 times 2 which is 8. I would have had an 8 in the numerator and an 8 in the denominator. Let me show you what that would have looked like. I would have written 8 as 1 times 8, a nd 24 as 3 times 8. Notice 8 divided by 8 makes 1, because there are common factors in the numerator and denominator. And I have 1 over 3, or 1/3. Notice, if I take out the largest number in both the numerator and the denominator, I get to my answer more quickly. Usually, that's what we want to do when we simplify. That's why it's helpful to know factors of a number. Let's finish this last section with a quiz. What do you think 2 plus 5 divided by 4 plus 10 is? Is it 1 4th, 1 half, 2 3rds, 2 7ths, or just 1? I know that 2 plus 5 makes 7 and 4 plus 10 makes 14, so I really have 7/14. We need to remember that when working with fractions, we can only simplify factors. We can only take out numbers that appear both in the numerator and in the denominator. So I can take out a 7. I know that 7 is the same as 7 times 1 and 14 is the same thing as 7 times 2. So the 7's reduce to give me 1. And I'm left with 1/2. If you chose 1/2, nice work. We want to be careful when carrying out this math. There are some other options that you might have thought about. You might have thought about dividing 2 and 4 by 2, and 5 and 10 by 5. If you would have cancelled out the terms, you would have gotten 1 plus 1 over 2 plus 2. This simplified to 2 force, which is the same as 1/2. But this thinking isn't correct. We know that we can only simplify factors. That is, numbers that appear in the numerator and the denominator as multiplication. We can't simplify terms. We did get the correct answer using this route. But it's not the correct mode of thinking when we simplify fractions. Some students work from here and then split up this fraction into 1/2 plus 1/2. We know this isn't correct thinking because we have a division bar. We have to keep our numerator together and our denominator together. Besides, we were canceling terms and not factors. In the last lesson, we learned how to work with equivalent fractions. For this lesson, we are going to learn how to multiply fractions using chocolate. If I have 4 chocolate bars and I want to share them fairly between 2 people, not including myself, how much should each person get? You can write your answer here. Each person should get 2 chocolate bars. We have 4 chocolate bars to start with and we're going to divide them or split them up among 2 people. So 4 divided by 2 makes 2. This problem seems really simple. But this division sign is what's really interesting about the problem. Dividing by a number is actually the same as multiplying by the reciporical. The reciporical of the number is 1 divided by that number. So, for example, the reciporical of 3 would be 1 3rd. The reciporical of a fraction, a over b. Is b over a. This was actually true for the number 3. We can rewrite 3 as 3 divided by 1, since that's still 3. And notice the reciprocal of 3 divided by 1 is 1 divided by 3 or 1 3rd So the reciprocal of negative 5 4ths would be negative 4 5ths And the reciprocal of 1 7th would be 7 over 1 or just positive 7. Now what we know that a reciprocal is let's go back to this division. We said dividing by a number is the same as multiplying by its reciprocal. So I can change 4 divided 2 into 4 times 1 half. So if I do 1 half times 4, I know I should get 2. Whether we know it or not we actually multiply by fractions right here 4 is the same as 4 divided by 1 and I got a result of two. We're going to look more closely at this throughout the rest of the lesson. Okay, let's go back to our four chocolate bars. If I'm holding these four chocolate bars, what would one chocolate bar represent? In other words, what's the fraction for just one of these chocolate bars? You can enter your answer here. If you said 1 4th, nice work. I know that I have one candy bar, so my numerator is just one and I have out of a total of four candy bars. So I have 1 out of 4 or 1 4th. I know this has seemed pretty easy so far, but there's something else that's really interesting about 1/4. I can represent 1/4 in other ways. Like if I had a clock. So, if I start on the hour, I could go 15 minutes. I could go another 15 minutes, I could go another 15 minutes, and I could go another 15. I know an hour is 60 minutes so I just need to go 1/4 of that way. So, 1/4 is going to be one 15-minute period. This is 1/4 of my one hour. 1/4 could also represent part of an area of a square. Here's a square, notice that I split the square up into 4 parts. If I shade one of those parts, I have 1 out of 4 or 1/4. Notice that in both cases, I split up my whole part into 4 equal pieces. I split the square up into 4 equal pieces and I split my hour up into 4 15-minute time intervals. What's really important is that we always create equally sized pieces. What's also interesting is that I could have actually split up my square a bit differently, I could have drawn this. So, if I shaded in this area, I know that I'd have 1/4 or 1 out of 4 equally divided pieces. We haven't covered this yet, but you might be wondering, what about zeros in fractions? How do they happen, and can they happen? Let's look at some squares to figure this out. Here, I have a square broken up into four equal pieces. Notice that none of them are shaded. That's okay. I can still have 0 out of 4. For fractions, the numerator tells us the number of equally sized pieces we have. The denominator tells us how many pieces our whole, in this case, our square is split in two. Notice that I have none of them shaded. So, I have 0 out of 4. Since I have no pieces, it's really just 0, 0 divided by 4 is 0. For this square, it doesn't make sense to split it up into zero pieces. I can't take a square and divide it by nothing. It just doesn't make sense. Fractions with zero in the denominator are undefined. Let's try your hand at a quiz. I'm going to draw a bunch of shapes and I want you to find the shape, or images, that have an area shaded as 1/5. Check all the images where the shaded area is 1/5 of the total area. Assume that the circle has been split up into equal parts, it might be hard to tell. If you chose the circle, great work. I know I have 1 part of the circle shaded out of 5 equal parts. So, that's definitely 1/5. The second one isn't 1/4. I do have 5 parts but they're not all equal. I have 1 of them shaded but remember, the parts need to be equal. This one is also correct. I have 1 out of 5 pieces and all the pieces are equally shaped. This triangle is also not correct. I do have 1 piece shaded, but I have 1 of 4. So this one is really 1/4. This one is also correct. I have 5 pieces of my entire rectangle and I have one of them shaded, so 1/5. This one is also not correct. I have 5 pieces, but they're not equally shaped. The area hasn't been divided into 5 equal pieces, so this can't be 1/5 of the area So far, we've worked with the numerator being 1. We have only had one piece out of five. Let's see what else we can do. Here's a square again, and I'm going to split it up into four parts. Now, instead of having one piece, I'm going to have three. So now the area of this shaded square is 3 4ths. My numerator is 3, because I have three pieces. My denominator is 4, because I've split up my square into four equal pieces. Here's another square, and this time, I'm going to have all the pieces. Let's see what that looks like. So, now I have 4 out of 4. When I have 4 divided by 4, that's really 1. Now that we've seen that the numerator doesn't have to be 1, let's try an example where it's not. We'll try this out with a quiz. So, which of the following answer choices could represent 2/5 of an hour? Is it 10 minutes, 12 minutes, 20 minutes, 24 minutes, or 25 minutes? Here's a clock to help you out. Remember thinking about splitting up your clock or your hour into equal pieces. If you chose 24 minutes, nice work. I know that there's 60 minutes in an hour, so I need to split that 60 minutes up into five equal pieces. I know 60 divided by 5 is 12, so if I go 1 5th of an hour, I've just gone 12 minutes. But I need 2 5ths an hour, I need double that. So to go 2 5ths in an hour, I need to go 2 times 12 minutes, so I need to go 24 minutes. 2 5ths of an hour is really just 24 minutes. Okay. This is a great review of fractions. But what else can we do with fractions? With the counting numbers, we can add, subtract, multiply and divide. We can do the same operations with fractions. You might be asking yourself, what's an operation. An operation is just something that takes input values and produces an output value. Like addition, we could have 2 plus 3. 2 and 3 are the inputs, and I get 5 as the output. Or, I could have 4 times 7. 4 and 7 are my inputs, and I get 28 as the output. An operation just produces a new value. For now, we're going to continue working with fractions and look at multiplication. But we're going to return to our chocolate bars. Here's my one chocolate bar. This time, I'm going to split up my chocolate bar into pieces. I'm going to find a fraction of a fraction. So what is 1 3rd of one half of the chocolate bar? Let's find out. Here's a drawing of a chocolate bar. And now first, I'm going to split it in half. So I started with 1 bar and now I have half a bar. I want to find 1 3rd of that oine half. So, I need to take this half of a chocolate bar and split it up into thirds, or three equal pieces. I've split my half into thirds now. And now I just need 1 3rd of the one half. So this piece right here represents 1 3rd of my one-half. So, I found 1 3rd of one half. It's this shape piece. But, I'm wondering, what fraction is this piece compared to the original candy bar? I can split up my original candy bar into the same size pieces as this one. That will let me see what fraction is this of my candy bar. So visually I can see that this piece is 1 6ths of my. My candy bar. So let's pair this with some math. 1 3rd of one half has to be equal to 1 6th but I need to figure out what did I do to these two fractions. How did I combine them to get 1 6ths? Let's answer this question with a quiz. Okay. So, to find a fraction of a fraction, you have to do something with the numerators and the denominators. So, what do you do with the numerators and what do you do with the denominators? Do you add them, subtract them, multiply them or divide them? One of these operations will work for the numerator and the denominators, you choose. You know you want 1/3 of 1/2 to be 1/6, so somehow I need to get 1. Well, 1 * 1 is 1, so I know I need to multiply the numerators, so if you chose multiplication, great. And then for the denominator, I need 6. Well, I know 3 * 2 is 6, so it must be multiplication as well. Whenever we take a fraction of a fraction, we multiply the numerators and multiply the denominators Okay. Let's try your head at one more quiz. What's 1/3 of 1/4 of a chocolate bar? What fraction do you think that would be? Is it 1/12, 2/7, 2/12, 3/4, or 4/3? You also might want to draw some diagrams to help you out. If you said 1/12, nice work. This time, I'm going to use some blocks to help me out. This full block represents one candy bar. I'm going to go ahead and section the candy bar into fourths. Okay, I have 1/4, 1/4, 1/4, and 1/4, all the fourths added together make up my whole candy bar. I have 1/4 of my candy bar here, but now I need 1/3 of it. I'm going to split this 1/4 into 1/3. So, this piece right here represents 1/3 of 1/4 of my candy bar. Let's see how it compares to the original whole candy bar. I can see that the one piece is one out of the 12 pieces of my candy bar, so 1/3 of 1/4 must be 1/12. And you probably did it really easily. You probably just said 1/3 times 1/4. Remember, when we multiply fractions, we multiply the numerators straight across, and the denominators straight across. So, I have 1 times 1 and 3 times 4, or 1/12. This piece is 1/12 of my original candy bar. I'm going to get you started on this problem, and then I want you to finish it out. I have 2/5 of a candy bar. I need to share it with three others and myself, so I'm really sharing it among four people. So I take 2/5 and divide it by 4. Remember, you need to change something here. When we divide by a number we could do the same thing as multiply by the reciprocal. So we're going to have 2/5 times 1/4. Okay. You finish this one now. If you said 2/20, great work. We know 2 times 1 is 2 and 5 times 4 is 20. You might have also put a different answer. You might have reduced. You might have divided your fraction by 2/2, and you would have gotten 1/10. Both 1/10 and 2/20 are correct. Let's look at why. So here, I have two candy bars. This top one's been put up on 20th. This bottom one has been split up into 10th. I know that my answer was supposed to be 2/20. Two out of 20 pieces. Visually, I can see that's 1/10. I have one out of the ten pieces down here. 2/20 and 1/10 are actually equal fractions. They represent the same amount. Oftentimes, you say that 1/10 is the reduced form or the simplified form of 2/20. But as we can tell, both are actually equal. They just look different. To get to this answer of 1/10 faster, I actually didn't need to wait to simplify. I could have done it sooner. Let's see what that looks like. I can reduce any common factors that appear in the numerators and in the denominators. I know if I multiply these fractions, I would do 21 and 54. I'm going to break up my four into factors of two. I know 2/2 makes one. So, whenever I see a 2/2, I can simplify that, then I would just multiply as usual. 1*1 is one and 512 is ten, so I still get 1/10. You might have heard of the term crosscanceling before, that could also work. I know that two goes in a two and two goes in a four. If I would write a factor in the numerator and at the denominator, I can cancel. 2/2 makes one, and 4/2 makes two. When I multiply across, I'm going to have 11 and 52. Either way, I still wind up with 1/10. The key thing is you want to make sure you're only cancelling that factor that appears in the numerator and in the denominator, because we know anything over itself is one. So you're probably saying so what? Why would I want to reduce factors first? Well, what if I wanted to find 3/10*5/12? I could draw a diagram of the candy bar and split up the pieces before it. I could split up the 10's and then 12's. But that's kind of a lot of work and I know I just really need to multiply these 2 fractions. Multiplying these two fractions together I get 15/120. But now I have to figure out if I can simplify this, and how to simplify this fraction. This can be frustrating working with large numbers, so let's make our work easier and simplify our fractions first. I know 10 can be written as 2*5, and 12 can be written as 3*4. Remember any number divided by itself makes 1. Like 4/4 makes 1, 5/5 makes 1. It doesn't work for zero, but we should keep this in mind when we're simplifying. Here I have 3/3 so that makes 1 and 5/5, so that also makes 1. Now I'll just multiply my numerators. So I have 1 times 1, which is 1 and I have 2 times 1 times 1 times 4 or I have 2 times 1 times 1 times 4. Which I know that's just really 2*4 or 8. So 15/120 is really the same thing as 1/8th. I am showing you this longer method so you can really see why we can cancel factors. You can do ahead of the time and this is what it would look like. I know 5 and 10 share a common factor of 5, so I can divide them both by 5, 5/5 makes 1, 10/5 makes 2. 3 and 12 also share a factor of 3, so 3/3 makes 1, and 12/3 makes 4. Now, I multiply, just like before, 1*1 is 1, and 2*4 is 8. So either way I do it this long way, or this shorter way with cross-cancelling, I get 1/8. Now that we've seen how to multiply fractions and how to simplify them, let's try a quiz. So, what's 11/16*24/55? You can put your answer in this box, the numerator in the top, the denominator in the bottom. Okay, to solve this problem, first I'm going to reduce my fractions. I want to take out anything that equals 1. I know 8 goes into 24 and 16, so I'll have an 8 over 8 in my answer, so let's get rid of that. 24 divided by 8 is 3. and 16 divided by 8 is 2. With 11 and 55, I know they both share a factor of 11. I'm going to, to divide that out as well. 11 divided by 11 is 1 and 55 divided by 11 is 5. So I have 1 times 3 in my numerator, and 2 times 5 in my denominator, so I get 3/10. If you said 3/10, nice work. Alright. You've already done a lot of math. You've identified fractions, you found fractions of fractions, and you reduced fractions. Let's see what else we can do. Thanks Chris, for showing us how to multiply and divide fractions. Now, let's practice what we learned. There will be several question videos at the end of each lesson. Let's try a multiplication of fractions question. The first question that we want to do is 3 4th times 5 7th. You can put your answer here. If you got 15 over 28, great job. Now, let's go ahead and do the problem. If I have 3 4ths, times 5 7ths, we know when we multiply fractions that we have to multiply the numerators together. And we have to multiply the denominators together. So, 3 times 5 is 15. And, 4 times 7 is 28. Now we would need to check to see if we need to reduce the fraction, but since there's no factors in common between 15 and 28, we're done. Okay. Let's try a, a slightly harder question. This time, we're going to do 8 over 15 times 25 over 28. You can write your answer here. If you got 10 over 21, you got it right. Let's see how to get that answer. Since these numbers are large, we want to try to factor them before we multiply them, and see if we can cancel any factors. So, we can write 8 as, 4 times 2 and we can write 15 as, 3 times 5. For the second fraction, we can write 25 as 5 times 5. And we can write 28 as 7 times 4. If you notice, there's a 4 in the numerator, and a 4 in the denominator. So, we know that 4 over 4 equals 1. Also, there's a 5 in the numerator and a 5 in the denominator and we know that 5 over 5 is equal to 1. So, after we cancel any factors that are in common between the numerator and the denominator, we simply multiply the numerators together, so we're left with 2 times 5 and we multiply the denominators together, 3 times 7. So we know, 2 times 5 is 10, and we know that 3 times 7 is 21. Now we're going to get into a little bit more regular fractions. We're going to tackle another chocolate problem. This is going to be chocolate math 2. So here's our question. How many batches of brownies can you bake if a recipe requires 4/5 cup of sugar, and you have 3 1/2 cups of sugar at home. Write your answer as a mixed number, and I'll provide the boxes. Use any math reason that you know. Remember, the important part is just to try to reason. It doesn't matter if you're right, right now. We'll be coming back to this problem later. Just give your best guess now, and you can always change it and revise it later. Before we attempt our problem, lets review mixed numbers and improper fractions. Mixed numbers are a way to count objects when we have a couple of objects and a part of that object. So here I have 2 doughnuts and then I have 2 thirds of one. I can think about splitting up a whole doughnut into 3 equal pieces, or thirds, and then I'd have 2 thirds. So our entire mixed number would be 2 and 2 thirds. Notice we have a mixture of whole numbers and fractions. That's why we call these mixed numbers. If I split all of my donuts up into thirds, I can count the pieces and I would have 8 thirds, that would be the improper fraction. It's improper because the number in the numerator is higher than the number in the denominator. So, let's see how we can go from the mixed number to the improper fraction. If I take my whole doughnuts, and split them up into thirds, I would have six of them. 6 3rds. I can get that by multiplying 3 times 2. I still have 2 3rds left over. So I need to add this 2 3rds to my 6 3rds. 6 plus 2 makes 8, so I get 8 3rds. Let's try going the other way. I can think about splitting 8 3rds into 6 3rds and 2 3rds. Notice that the 6 3rds represents my two whole doughnuts. I know 6 divided by 3 makes 2, and then I have my 2 3rds left over. So 2 and 2 3rds. This also makes sense because I know 3 goes into 8 two full times, and then I would have a remainder of 2 or 2 3rds left over. Now, let's look at mixed numbers with octagons. An octagon is just a shape with eight sides. What would be the mixed number and the improper fraction for these octagons? You want to think about splitting these octagons up into equal parts. You will also want to reduce your answer. So, for example, if I had 5 and 6 12th, I'd really want to write that as 5 and one-half. I know 6 goes into 6 one time, and I know 6 goes into 12 two times. So, 6 12th reduces to one-half. If you got 3 and 3 4ths that's great. I know I have three entire octagons. And then I need to figure out this fraction. This is actually going to be 3 4ths. Let's see why. I could have split my octagons into eighths. So I know I have three whole octagons. And then I have 1 8th, 2 8ths, 3 8ths, 4 8ths, 5 8ths, 6 8ths of a hexagon. Remember, I know I can reduce 6 8ths, I know 2 goes into 6 and 8. So I can simplify it. And then I have 3 4ths. To find our improper fraction, we just need to count up all the 8ths. If I counted up all the 8ths, I would find out that I would have 30 over 8, or 30 8ths. Remember I can reduce this fraction. So I get 15 over 4 or 15 4ths. But this doesn't quite make sense. My picture has 8ths but my answers have 4ths. Well that means I could actually have done this a little bit differently. I could have split up my octagons into fourths. This would be 1 4th of the octagon. Notice when have fourths I can easily see that I have 3 and 3 4ths. I have 3 whole hexagons, and then I have 3 fourths. 1 4th, 2 4ths, 3 4ths of this last hexagon. So 3 and 3 4ths. Calculating of improper fraction is pretty easy too I can actually just use my mixed number. Because this mixed number is in 4ths, I can figure out the improper fraction in 4ths. I can multiply 4 times 3, which is 12. That makes sense because I have three octagons, and to each of them has four pieces. Then I have to add three more pieces. So I add 12 plus 3, and I get 15 over 4, 15 4ths. Lets try answering an easier form of the problem. This might help us think about what we should do. How many batches of brownies could you bake if a recipe requires 1/2 of a cup of sugar and you have one cup of sugar at home? This seems a little bit easier. This square is going to represent my one cup of sugar. I know 1/2 of a cup of sugar will make one batch of brownies. So I'm going to fill up 1/2 of my cup and make one batch of brownies. So here's a half cup of sugar and I know I made one batch of brownies. If I use another half cup of sugar, I know I'll make another batch of brownies. Now I've used my one whole cup of sugar and I don't have any sugar left at home. Well, I made two batches of brownies. Let's try this with some math. I have one cup of sugar. And I wondered how many times did 1/2 go into it? I knew I was able to make 2 batches of brownies. So 1 divided by a 1/2 must be 2. Remember, when we divide by a number, we can actually multiply by the reciporical. We learned that from before. So I could change this to look like 1 times 2 over 1. Well, remember, I could just put any number over 1. And then, multiply fractions like before. 1 times 2 is 2, and 1 times 1 is 1. 2 for 1 is just 2. Let's change this problem a little bit and see what we can find out. What if instead a recipe called for 1/3 a cup of sugar? I know if I use a 3rd cup of sugar I'll make one batch of brownies. If I use another 1/3 cup of sugar, I'll make another batch of brownies and if I use my last 1/3 cup of sugar I'll make one more batch of brownies. So let's put this with some math. I was wondering how many times does 1/3 go into 1 so I did 1 divided by 1/3. I know that for every 1/3 cup of sugar I get one batch of brownies so I should get three batches. Remember when I divide by a number it's the same thing as multiply by the reciprocal. I could change this to multiplication 1 times 3 over 1. I know 1 is just 1 over 1 and now I can multiply these fractions together. 1 times 3 is 3 and 1 times 1 is 1, I get 3 over 1, 3 divided by 1 is 3 batches. I hope you're starting to see a pattern. Let's see if you can figure this one out. So, here's your quiz. How many batches of brownies can you bake if a recipe requires 1 4th of a cup of sugar, and you have 1 cup of sugar at home? You can put your answer in this box here. If you said four batches, way to go. I know for the first fourth cup of sugar, I'll make one batch of brownies. For the next fourth cup of sugar, I'll make another batch of brownies. Another fourth cup of sugar will give me another batch of brownies, and my last fourth cup of sugar will give me another batch of brownies. I started with one cup of sugar and I wanted to see how many times did 1/4 divide into one cup. I can turn division into multiplication by multiplying by the reciprocal. So, 1 times 4 over 1. I get 1 times 4, which is 4, and 1 times 1, which is 1. 4 divided by 1, makes 4. The key idea in all these problems is that dividing by a fraction is the same as multiplying by the reciprocal of the fraction. We're going to use this idea in the next problem. Lets make this problem a little more challenging. What if the brownie recipe called for a 2/3 of a cup of sugar and you had 1 cup of sugar at home? Before we get into the problem, let's make a prediction. Could we make more than one batch? Exactly one batch? Or less than one batch? I have more sugar at home than my recipe calls for. My recipe only calls for 2/3 of a cup of sugar. If I had 1 cup of sugar at home, I could use 2/3 to make one full batch of brownies, and then I'd have 1/3 of a cup left over. So, I know I can make more than one batch of brownies. If I only had 2/3 of a cup of sugar, I can make exactly 1 batch of brownies. But I'll have extra leftover, I'll have a 3rd of a cup of sugar that I can still use. If you said more than 1 batch of brownies, nice work. Remember, I still have 1 3rd of a cup of sugar that I can use at home to make brownies. I've drawn it over here, this 1 3rd cup of sugar actually represents 2 fraction amounts. I can see that this 1 3rd cup of sugar actually represents 1/2 of a batch of brownies. So I made one batch of brownies from 2 3rds cup of sugar and I made a half a batch of brownies from 1 3rd cup of sugar. And all together I used 1 3rd and 2 3rds which is 1 cup. I can see all together I made one and a half batches of brownies. I used 2 3rds cup of sugar to make one batch. And then with the extra 1 3rd cup of sugar I made half of a batch. I saw that, that piece was a half of a batch of brownies. So one and a half all together. Now that we've covered more information about mixed numbers and improper fractions, let's revise our guess on our second chocolate math problem. How many batches of brownies can you bake if a recipe calls for 4 5ths of a cup of sugar and you have 3 and a half cups of sugar at home? You can put your answer here as a mixed number, put the whole number here and the fraction part here. Remember, use any of your math reasoning. It's okay, you might not have all the tools to solve this problem yet, but just give your best guess, and use any reason that you've learned so far. Let's make another prediction. This time, how may batches of brownies can you bake if your recipe requires 3/4 of a cup of sugar and you have 2 cups of sugar at home. Again, before we solve this problem let's guess about how many batches we'll make. Will we make less than one batch of brownie, exactly one batch, more than one batch, but less than 2, exactly 2 batches, or more than 2 batches. Go ahead, choose your answer. Here is 1 cup of sugar and I know 3 4ths of a cup makes 1 batch of brownies. Here's another cup of sugar and I know this 3 4ths cup of sugar makes another batch of brownies. So, I know I can at least make 2 batches of brownies. I haven't used 2 full cups yet. I actually have some sugar that I can still use. So, I know I could've made more then 2 batches of brownies. If you chose more than 2 batches, great job. But what about the sugar I have left over? I've only used 3/4 of a cup and 3/4 of a cup. I still have 1/4 and 1/4 that I can still use to make more brownies. 1/4 and 1/4 is really 2/4, so I still have 2/4 of a cup of sugar that I can use to make brownies. This is the 2/4. So, this 2/4 cup of sugar represents what fraction of the batch of brownies? You can enter your answer here. This extra 2 4ths cup of sugar actually represents 2 3rds of a batch of brownies. I know one whole batch require 2 4ths, so this 2 4ths is only 2 3rds of a batch of brownies. Okay. Let's wrap up and figure out exactly how many batches of brownies we can make if our recipe calls for 3/4 a cup of sugar, and we have two cups of sugar at home. Go ahead and solve it. If you counted the batches form the last problem, we know we have 2 and 2 3rds of a batch. To do that math, I would have done 2 divided by 3 4ths. I was trying to figure out how mnay times 3 4ths goes into 2. Instead of dividng by a fraction, I'm going to multiply by the reciprocal. So I have 2 times 4 3rds. I know 2 can be written as 2 over 1, and now I can multiply. 2 times 4 is 8. 1 times 3 is 3, so I have 8 3rds. I'm going to write this as a mixed number. I know 3 goes into 8 only two times because 2 times 3 is 6. So I have 3 going into 8 two times, and then I'm left with two extra pieces. So 2 and 2 3rds. So let's go back and answer our chocolate math 2 question. How many batches of brownies can you bake if a recipe requires 4 5ths of a cup of sugar and you have 3 and a half cups of sugar at home? You can put your answer here as a mixed number. Remember, you'll want to use what we've learned about mixed numbers and dividing fractions. Alright, so I have three and a half and I'm wondering how many times does four-fifths go into three and a half. I know that dividing by a fraction is the same thing as multiplying by a reciprocal, so I'm going to take three and a half and multiply it by the reciprocal of four-fifths. The reciprocal of four-fifths is five-fourths. Now I need to multiply these two fractions together. This three and a half is a mixed number and doesn't help me. I'm going to change it to an improper fraction. 2 times 3 is 6 and 6 plus 1 is 7. So I have seven-halves times five-fourths or 35 divided by 8. 7 times 5 is 35, 2 times 4 is 8. Now I want to change this back into a mixed number to figure out how many batches of brownies I can make. 8 goes into 35, 4 times as 8 times 4 is 32. And I'm left with 3 extra pieces or three-eighths. So I can make 4 and three-eighths batches of brownies. Nice work on practicing your multiplication of fractions. Now, let's try a couple of division problems. The first problem that we want to do is similar to the multiplication problem, but we're going to divide 3 4ths divided by 5 7ths. You can put your answer here. If you got 21 over 21, great job. Let's see how we got that. Well, we know that dividing fractions is the same as multiplying by the reciprocal. So, 3/4 divided by 5/7 is actually 3/4 times 7/5. And we know when we multiply fractions together, we multiply the numerators together, so 3 times 7 is 21. And we multiply the denominators together, 5 times 4 is 20. Let's try a slightly more difficult division problem. Let's try 24 over 35, divided by 40 over 21. You can put your answer here. If you got 9 over 25, you got it right. We know to divide fractions, we want to multiply by the reciprocal. So I can rewrite this problem as a multiplication problem as 24 over 35 times the reciprocal of the second fraction which is 21 over 40. So instead of multiplying 24 times 21 and trying to reduce that I can factor before I multiply. So 24 can be written as 6 times 4. 35 can be written as 7 times 5. 21 can be written as 7 times 3. And 40 can be written as 4 times 10. From here, I notice that there's a 7 in my numerator and in my denominator and we know that 7 over 7 equals 1 And. We know that 4 over 4 is equal to 1. Now, we can multiply the numerators together. 6 times 3 is 18 and 5 times 10 is equal to 50, Whenever I do problems with fractions, I always want to make sure that my final answer is in simplified form, So I need to see if 18 over 50 is simplified. Well, I notice right away that 18 is an even number and 50 is an even number, so they're both divisible by 2. So I can write 18 at 9 times 2, and I can write 50 as 25 times 2. Now that I have these in factored form I can cross out 2 over 2, now we get to our final answer which is 9 over 25. In the last section we worked with multiplying and dividing fractions. We did a lot with fractions. Let's continue and see what else we can do. Here's our third chocolate math problem. You want to frost a cake for a party. You frost 2 5ths of the cake in vanilla icing and 1 4th of the cake in strawberry icing. What fraction of the cake is frosted? You might not know what to do with these two fractions and that's okay. I want you to go ahead and take a guess. You can put your answer in these 2 boxes here, the numerator up top and the denominator in the bottom. You also want to write down your answer, we're going to come back to it later, and you can see how your thinking might have changed. We're going to use a strategy to tackle this problem just like we've done before. We're going to make this problem easier. So we're going to use different fractions instead of 2/5 and 1/4. Let's use 1/2 and 1/3 instead. So I rewritten my question down here. Before we answer this problem, let's actually predict. So if we frost 1/2 of the cake in vanilla icing and 1/3 of it in strawberry icing. What fraction of the cake is actually frosted? Would it be less than 2/5? Exactly 2/5 Or more than 2/5? Draw some diagrams to help you out. Let's actually consider a round cake. And here's what 2/5 of a round cake frosted would look like. Notice I have my whole chocolate cake, and 2/5 of it has been frosted in this blue icing. So, what do you think 1/2 and 1/3 of a cake covered in icing would look like? Make your choice. Here are some cakes. Notice that for this first chocolate cake, I've split it up into thirds or 3 equal pieces. I have 1/3 of it covered in strawberry icing. For the second cake, I have half of it covered in vanilla icing, 1/2. But I don't have two separate cakes here, I just have one cake covered in all that frosting. So, here's what these pieces would like together on one cake. So, I have half of it covered in vanilla and a third of it covered in strawberry. If I compare the frosted part to the 2/5 part, I can easily see that this is more than 2/5. So, if you said more than 2/5, nice work. It's not that obvious but if you draw diagrams, it can definitely help support your reasoning. So, let's try looking at this with some math. I had half of the cake in vanilla icing and a third of the cake in strawberry icing. Many students think that adding fractions together is the same as adding numbers or integers together. They would say 1 plus 1 makes 2 and 2 plus 3 makes 5. Many students think 1/2 and 1/3 is 2/5. But when I look at my diagram, I know that can't be right. I already have half of the cake in vanilla icing and a little bit more in strawberry icing. I know this much is frosted and that's way bigger than 2/5. So, we need another way to add these fractions together. This won't work. Alright. So, let's see how we can add 1/3 of strawberry icing and 1/2 of vanilla icing together. I need a way to compare 1/3 and 1/2 of the cake. If I cut the cake into equal size pieces for both of them, then I could add the parts together. Let's split up our cake into sixths. I'm going to split every third into to two equal parts. Doing that, I can see I get 2/6 of the cake is covered in strawberry icing. So, how did I get from 1/3 to 2/3? We doubled the number of pieces we had altogether, I went from 3 pieces to 6. So, I know I needed to multiply the denominator by 2. I also doubled the number of pieces I had. I had 1 out of 3 and now, I have 2 out of 6. Notice I'm multiplying by the number 1, 2 divided by 2 is still 1. I'm just changing what this fraction looks like, I'm not changing its value. We can still see 1/3 is 2/6. I'm going to use the same approach to make 1/2 into sixths. I'm going to split up this cake into 6. To change from halves to sixths, I need to multiply by 3 over 3. I know 2 times 3 gives me 6. And then for the numerator, 1 times 3 is 3. Visually, I can see that 1/2 of the cake frosted in vanilla icing is the same as 3/6 of the cake also frosted in vanilla icing. I multiplied by 1 here, so I'm not changing the value of this fraction, I'm just changing what it looks like. Now that I have my cake split up into sixths, I have 2/6 of it frosted in strawberry, and 3/6 of it frosted in vanilla icing. Now, I can just add my sixths together. I have the same sized pieces, so I can just count them up. I can see that 2/6 and 3/6, altogether, makes 5/6. And here's what it would look like on one cake. I have half of it covered in vanilla icing and 1/3 of it covered in strawberry icing. This would be 1/6 of the cake, 2/6 of the cake, 3/6 of the cake, 4/6 of the cake, and 5/6 of the cake. So, when my fractions were just 1/3 and 1/2, I couldn't add them together. I had to get a common denominator first. I had to get them into the same size pieces. So, how do I add fract ions together once I have a common denominator? Let's try this with a quiz. How did I add these two fractions together? To add fractions with common denominators, you blank the numerators together and blank the denominators. You could use the words, add, subtract, multiply, divide, or do not change. You'll use any of these words to fill these boxes. What did we do here? How did we add these two fractions together? Go ahead, type in your choices. Well, I notice that down here, I had 2/6 and 3/6. I add 2 plus 3 so I have 5. So, I added the numerators together. For the denominators, I didn't change them. I was simply counting up how many sixths I had. I have 1/6, 2/6, 3/6, and 5/6 altogether. So, we do not change the denominator. So, we've done a lot of work with cake. And, as much as I like cake, especially chocolate cake, let's see how else we can use our fractions. Even if I spend all that time baking, I probably want to go outside. So, let's see our fractions in another content. Walking. So here's our next problem with fractions. You walk two fifths of a kilometer and then three tenths of a kilometer. How far did you walk? When thinking about this problem, I know I need to do something with these fractions. I'm trying to figure out the total distance I have to walk. So I should probably. Add these fractions together. So I have two fifth added to three tenths. Here I don't have common denominators, I cannot just add these together. So lets see what we can do. But you might be wondering what's a kilometer. A kilometer is a measure of distance. We use the letter km to stand for kilometer. There's also the word kilo. Kilo means a thousand. So we know one kilometer is really a thousand meters. And you're probably wondering what's that distance like? So here's a picture of about a kilometer. In New York City, Central Park is about 849 meters across. 849 meters is just shy of 1,000 meters. So we know Central Park is. About a kilometer, but a little bit less then that. If you wanted to see for yourself how long a kilometer is you could go outside, it takes about twelve minutes to walk a kilometer depending on how fast you walk. Alright, now that we know what a kilometer is let's get back to problem solving. Okay, I've rewritten our problem at the top, we walk two fifths of and then walked three tenths of a kilometer. How far did you walk? Let's picture this using a kilometer. I'm going to draw a bar that represents a kilometer. So this distance, or the full bar, would be one kilometer. Two fifths of a kilometer would only be this much. Let's say the same thing for three tenths. Let's split up our kilometer bar into tenths. So I have a full kilometer bar, I have tenths, And three of them are shaded to repr esent three tenths of a kilometer. If I wanted to ever add two fifths and three tenths together, it would look like this. I would have the two fifths and then the three tenths Don't fall into the trap of thinking this is five out of fifthteen. I don't have fifthteen equally divided regions here. Even though I have five of them, they're not equally spaced. I can't add two fifhts and three tenths together because I'm not dealing with the same dimensions or length. I know one fifth of a kilometer is actually longer than one tenths of a kilometer, so I can't simply add fifth and tenths together. Remember, I need to get a common denominator. So, what do you think? What would be the common denominator for two fifths and three tenths? You can enter your answer in this box here. Just give me only the denominator. What would you change tenths and fifths into? If you said 10, nice work. This is a little bit tricky, so let's walk through how to actually do this. I'm going to show you two ways to find the common denominator. The first way is listing out the multiples. I have 5 for one denominator, and I have 10 for the other. I'm going to start by listing out the multiples of 5. I have 5, then 10, then 15, 20, and so on. To get to the next multiple, I just add 5. For 10, I can list out its multiples as well. 10, 20, 30, 40, and 50. And it keeps going. To find the denominator, I want the lowest number that both 5 and 10 go into. When I think about the lowest number they both go into. I see that it's 10. So I know I'm going to need to split this bar into tenths, and this one into 10ths. Luckily, this one's already in tenths. Another way to find the common denominator is to find the factors of 5 and 10. I'm going to use a factor tree. I know the common factors for 5 and 10 are 5. So I put that in the middle. The other factors are 5, or 5 and 1. Because 5 times 1 makes 5. The other factor of 10 has to be 2, because 5 times 2 makes 10. If I multiply all these numbers together, 1 times 5 times 2, I get 10. Either way, I can still find the common denominator. Alright, so we know we need to change fifths and tenths into tenths. So to change fifths into tenths I need to multiply by 2 over 2. And then for 3 10ths it's already tenths. So I don't need to change it. So let's see what happens when I change 2 5ths into tenths. I know if I multiply my fractions I'll get 4 10ths. Here is what that would look like, this would be 4 10ths of a kilometer. Remember I doubled the number of pieces that I had, I went from 5 pieces to 10 and I doubled the number of pieces thatI had. I had 2 5ths originally And now I have 2 times 2, which is 4 or 4 10ths. Visually we can see that 2 5ths of 1 kilometer bar is the same as 4 10ths of 1 kilometer bar. They really represent the same length. My 3 10ths of a kilometer doesn't change, I'm just adding it to the 4 10ths. So, let's put this all together. What fraction of a kilometer did you actually walk? You can enter your final answer here. Put the numerator in this box and the denominator in this box. So, I really just want to add 4/10 and 3/10. So, here's another kilometer bar, and I'm going to fill it with both the 4/10 and the 3/10. This would be 4/10 of a kilometer and this would be another 3/10 of a kilometer. So, altogether, I have 7/10. If you said 7/10, nice work. Let's try another kilometer problem. You walk 3/8 of a kilometer and 3/7 of a kilometer one day, how far did you walk? Before we solve this problem like the others, let's make a prediction. Did you walk less than a kilometer, exactly a kilometer, or more than 1 kilometer? Use the 2 number lines to help you out. We have 1 full kilometer, and this is 3/8 of that kilometer. I have three out of eight parts of the kilometer. Here, the kilometer has been split into seven equal pieces and I have 3/7 of the kilometer length. Choose the best one. Half a kilometer and half a kilometer makes 1 full kilometer. I know 3 8ths is shorter than half a kilometer, and the same is true for 3 7ths. This would be the halfway point for 1 kilometer. So if I add two things that are less then one half, I can't get a full kilometer. You must have walked less than 1 kilometer. If you chose less than 1 kilometer, nice work. So, if we walk these two distances, we know we need to add them together to find our total distance. I can't add the fractions yet because they have unlike denominators. I want you to find the common denominator for these two fractions. Type in your answer here. You might have taken some different approaches to find the least common denominator. Here is one way, we could have used the least common multiple. By listing the multiples of 7 and by listing the multiples of 8, we can see that the lowest common number that they go into is 56. But this is a lot of work, and I don't want to have to do this every single time. So, let's try using our factor tree. The only common factor of 8 and 7 is 1 and the numbers on the outside must be 8 and 7, since 8 times 1 is 8 and 7 times 1 is 7. If we multiply these factors together, we get 56. Well done if you got 56. So I want you to find the equivalent fractions for 3 8ths and 3 7ths and then find thier sum. Put your answers in the boxes. We know our common denominator is 56. So I need to multiply 3 8ths by 7 over 7, and I get 21, 56. For 3 7ths, we're going to multiply by 8 over 8, and I'll get 24, 56. To add 21, 56 and 24, 56, I just count up how many 56 I have all together. I have 45, 56. So all together we walked 45 56 of a kilometer. Maybe you have another method for finding the least common denominator. If you do, share it on the forum. Now that we've walked through adding two fractions together, let's return to our original question. You want to frost a cake for a party. You frost a fourth of the cake in vanilla icing, and 2 5th of the cake in strawberry icing. What fraction of the cake is frosted? So, I want you to try to answer this question using what we've learned. You can use diagrams to help support your answer, or if you already know the method and understand it really well, you can just apply that. Is it 3 5th, 3 9th, 1 10th, 3 20th, or 13 20th? Make your choice. I know when 4ths of the cake is frosted with vanilla icing and 2 5ths of it is frosted in strawberry icing, so I have 1 4th and 2 5ths. I need to add these two fractions together to figure out how much of the cake is frosted in total. My fractions do not have common denominators. I have 4ths and I have 5ths, so I need to get the same size pieces. To find the common denominator, I'm going to do the least common multiple method. So, I'm going to list the multiples of four and the multiples of five. The smallest number that both four and five go into is 20. I could also find out by using my factor tree method. When I think about the factors that four and five have on common, the only factor that they share is one. I know the other factor of four must be four, since 4 times 1 is four. The other factor of five must be five. Multiplying these together, I still get 20. So I know I need to change 4ths into 20ths, and 5ths into 20ths. To change 4ths into 20ths, I need to multiply by 5 over 5. I know this because 20 is the 5th multiple of four. I also know this because I have to multiply 4 times 5 to end up with 20. So 5 times 1 is 5 and 5 times 4 is 20. To change 2 5ths into 20ths, I need to multiply by 4 over 4. Remember, I'm still multiplying by one. 2 times 4 is 8 and 5 times 4 is 20. Now, this is great, I can actually add the 20ths together. I have 5 20ths and 8 20ths. I keep my denominator the same and 8 plus 5 is 13. So I get 13 20ths. If you chose 13 20ths, nice work. We've worked with frosted cake, but sometimes it might be better to know how much cake was not frosted. Let's look at a simple case of this. If 2 3rds of a cake is frosted with vanilla icing, what fraction is not frosted? Well, let's start off by looking at a cake. Here is a whole chocolate cake and I'm going to ice 2 3rds of it. So I've split my cake up into 3rds and I iced two of those 3rds. Here is 1 3rds and 2 3rds. One way to think about this is that the parts must add up to the whole. I know that I have 2 3rds of the cake frosted in vanilla icing and I have to add some amount to get a whole cake. So I know 2 3rds plus some amount has to equal one. Well, this last piece is just 1 3rd, so I can just put 1 3rd here. This is the amount that's not frosted. And remember back from adding fractions, we know we just need to count up the 3rds. I have 1 3rd, 2 3rds, and 3 3rds altogether. So, this piece that's not frosted is 1 3rd. There's actually another way that we can think about this. Let's instead start with a whole cake and subtract off the parts that we don't want. We don't want the vanilla icing. So let's subtract the pieces we don't want from the entire whole cake. I started with one whole cake and I'm subtracting off 2 3rds. Well, I know one whole cake is the same thing as 3 3rds. Remember, I can write one as 1 divided by 1, beecause that's still one., and then I can multiply this fraction by 3 over 3. I'm just going to turn one into 3rds or 3 3rds, so I have 3 3rds minus 2 3rds which is 1 3rd. 1 3rd of my cake is not frosted. And what's interesting about fractions is that it doesn't matter how much cake we're talking about. We could have started with a different cake, maybe we started with a rectangular cake. Here is a rectangular cake and I'm going to ice 2 3rds of it. Doing the same problem with the rectangular cake doesn't change my answer. I still have 2 3rds of it frosted in vanilla icing and 1 3rd that's left unfrosted. The amount of cake that's frosted or unfrosted depends on the size and shape of the original cake. The neat thing about fractions is that 2 3rds could describe this part of a round cake or this part of a rectangular cake. Fractions describe a part of a whole object. If you save 2 5ths of any money you earn in a month, what fraction can you spend? And I am going to draw a circle to help you out. This circle is going to represent the total amount of money that you've earned and you can enter your answer in this box here. Put the numerator on top and the denominator at the bottom. So I'm going to start by taking my total amount of money and splitting it into fifths. Notice that 1 whole circle is 5 5ths. I'm going to save 2 5ths of my money, so let's show that on a another circle. And I'm going to save 2 5ths of my total money. I don't know how much total money I have but I know I'm saving this fraction. Money. I'm trying to figure out what fraction I have left that I can still spend. Visually, I can see that I still have 3 5ths of my money to spend. So how did I get that? I did 5 5ths, that was the whole amount of money I had, and I need to subtract off 2 5ths. So I have 5 5ths minus 2 5ths. So I'm taking away 2 5ths from my 5 5ths. So I just need to subtract the numerators. So 5 5th's take away 2 5th's leaves me with 3 5th's. I work with subtracting just like I do with adding fractions. I only change the numerators, all I'm doing is taking my 5th's and taking out two of them, leaving me with 3 5th's. If you got 3 5th's, nice work. Whether you know it or not, you've already started thinking algebraically. I have no idea how much money you can earn in a month but we've let that amount represent this circle. It was an abstract form of reasoning. We knew that if you saved 2 5ths of it that you would have 3 5ths of it left to spend on whatever you please. So, even though I don't know the total amount of money, I can still say at least what fraction of that money can be spent. One of the key skills in algebra is to find ways to work with unknown amounts or numbers. We'll see this throughout the entire course. Let's try our hand at another unfrosted cake problem. If 1/6 of a cake is frosted with strawberry icing and 3/8 is frosted with blueberry icing, what fraction of cake is not frosted? To set up this problem, let's give ourselves a picture of what's going on. Here are two rectangular cakes and I have 1/6 of it frosted in strawberry icing. For this other cake, I'm going to frost 3/8 of it in blueberry icing. Notice I've split up the cake into 8 equal parts and I have 3 of those 8 frosted or 3/8. I'm not working with two cakes though, I'm working with one cake. So, let's visualize these two cakes on one. I'm going to show that here. So, notice I have 1/6 of the cake frosted in strawberry icing and 3/8 of it frosted in blueberry icing. And we're trying to figure out what fraction is not frosted. The chocolate part. To set up this problem, we know we're going to start with one whole cake. Then, I need to subtract off 1/6 of the cake and 3/8 of the cake. So, I have 1 minus 1/6 minus 3/8. I can compare sixth to eighths right now, they are different size pieces so I can't just subtract these numbers. I need to get a common denominator, just like we did when adding fractions. So, let's try this with a quiz and see if we can remember how to find the common denominator. What do you think the common denominator would be for these fractions? Remember, you can list the multiples or use the factor tree. You don't have to worry about the one when finding the common denominator. This is because we can change the 1 into 2/2, 3/3, 12/12, or even a 107/107. All of these numbers are still equal to one. So, what's the common denominator for these fractions? You can put your answers in this box here. Remember, to find the common demominator, you can list the multiples or use the factor tree. Alright. The common denominator is going to be 24. Here's how we can figure that out. I can start by listing my denominators, and then I can list the multiples of 6 and the multiples of 8. So, I have 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, and 36. For 8, I have 16, 24, 32, and 40. I can see that the lowest common number is 24. Both 6 and 8 go into 24. Here's what it would look like if you use the factor tree method. I know the common factors for 6 and 8 are 2, and that the other factor of 6 is 3, because 3 times 2 is 6. For 8, the other factor has to be 4. I know this because 2 times 4 is 8. If I multiply these factors together, I get 3 times 2, which is 6, times 4 which is 24. Hopefully, you're getting the hang of finding the common denominator. So we know that we need to change our pieces to 24th's. So I'm going to take my whole cake and make it into 24th's. I know one whole cake would be 24/24's, but now I need to change this 1/6 of the cake into 24th's, and the 3/8's into 24th's. I want to do that because I want to subtract off the pieces that are frosted. I want to be left with the unfrosted region. So we know we need to change 1/6 to 24th's and we need to change 3/8th into 24th's. What number do we need to multiply by to change 1/6 and to change 3/8. Go ahead, enter your numbers here in these boxes. We need to multiple the 1/6 by 4/4. I know that if I do that I'll get 24 in my denominator and I'll get 4 in the numerator. My diagram of cake also supports this reasoning. If I thought about 1/6 of cake I can see that it;'s the same as 4/24 of cake. For 3/8, we needs to multiply by 3 over 3. I know 8 times 3 is 24. And then 3 times 3 would give me 9. So I have 4/24 in strawberry icing, and 9/24 in blueberry icing. Now I'm ready to subtract off my frosted pieces. So, let's put this altogether. What's the equivalent fraction we found for 1/6? The equivalent fraction we found for 3/8? And what would be our final answer? Enter your numbers in these boxes. Remember, the numerators go up top and the denominators are in the bottom. Be sure you put the equivalent fraction for 1/6 here and the equivalent fraction for 3/8 here. We know the equivalent fraction for 1 6th is 4 24ths and the equivalent fraction for 3 8ths is 9 24ths. I'm taking away 4 24ths and 9 24ths, so altogether, I'm taking away 13 24ths. I can see that visually, too. I have one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, 11, 12, 13 24ths. Those are the pieces I'm trying to subtract from my whole cake. So, 24 24ths minus 13 24ths leaves me with 11 24ths. That means this region must represent 11 24ths of my cake, that's the fraction that's not frosted. Let's see if this makes sense visually too. I've split my cake into 24ths, and if I count up the chocolate pieces that are not frosted, I can see that I have 11 of those. So I have 11 24ths of my cake not frosted. Alright. So here's our cake challenge. One half of a cake was eaten. If 3 10ths of the remaining half of the cake was eaten, what fraction of the original cake is left? You're going to need to combine what you've learned so far. Think about if you need to add, subtract, multiply or divide. Also think about how much cake you have to start. This is a tough problem. So, take your time and work slowly. Patient problem solving can often pay off in the end. Make sure your reasoning through each step, and use diagrams to support your reasoning. You can put your answer in this box here. Good luck. Okay, so we started with one whole cake. We know one-half of it was eaten. So, I need to subtract off half of my cake. I also know that 3 10th of the remaining half of the cake was also eaten. So, I have 3 10th of a half. I remember of means multiply. So, I need to take 3 10th and multiply it by a half. And this 3 10th of a half was eaten, so I need to subtract it off as well. So, I have one whole cake minus half a cake minus 3 10th of a one-half cake. I'm going to clear this up and take out the words. So, I have 1 for one whole cake, minus a half, and then 3 20th. I got 3 20th by doing the multiplication here. I have 3 over 20, or 3 20th. To subtract fractions, I know I need to find a common denominator. I don't have to worry about the 1 when finding a common denominator. I can change 1 to 2 halves, 3 3rd, or 4 4th. I can change it into anything pretty easily. For 2 and 20, I know the least common multiple, or the least common denominator, is 20. It's the smallest number that both 2 and 20 go into. I can also do this using my factor tree. I know the common factor for 2 and 20 is 2. The other factor of 2 is 1, and the other factor of 20 is 10. 1 times 2 times 10 makes 20. So, the change one-half to 20th, I know I need to multiply by 10 over 10. So, one-half is the same thing as 10 20th. For 3 20ths, I don't need to multiply by anything. I already have 20th so I just keep the numerator. But, I need to change this 1. To change the 1, I'm going to multiply by 20 over 20. I know 20 20th is still one whole. So, 20 20th minus 10 20th is 10 20th. This should make sense because I know if I start with one whole cake and subtract off half of it, I should still have half of it left. 10 20th is really the same as one-half. Now, I still need to subtract off my 3 20th. So, 10 20th minus 3 20th is 7 20th. If you said 7 20th, excellent work. Congratulations. I hope you gain a stronger understanding of working with fractions. More importantly, I hope you have learned why and how we add, subtract, multiply and divide fractions. Try your hand at solving some problems with fractions. And, treat yourself to some chocolate when you're done. You've worked hard. Thanks, Chris, for teaching us how to add and subtract fractions and finding the least common denominator. Now let's practice what we learned again. Let's try a pretty easy problem. We're going to try 7 12ths plus 3 8ths. You can put your answer for the numerator in that box and the denominator is that box. Good luck. If you got 23 for the numerator and 24 for the denominator, you got it right. Let's see how to get that answer. I know when I add fractions, I have to have the denominators be the same. So, the first thing that we need to do is find a common denominator between 12 and 8. Using the factor tree method, I know that 4 is a common factor for both 12 and 8. I know that 4 times 3 is 12. And 4 times 2 gives me 8. So, I can multiply those together, which gives me a common denominator of 24. The next thing I need to do is create equivalent fractions that have 24 as the denominator. So, I need to create equivalent fraction for 7 over 12. Since we want to have 24 in the denominator, I know I have to multiply 12 by 2 to get 24 and whatever I multiply the denominator by, I also have to multiply the numerator by. So, an equivalent fraction for 7/12 is 14 over 24. Now, let's convert 3/8. We want 24 as the denominator. 8 times 3 gives us 24. 8 times 3 is 24. 3 times 3 is 9. Now, I have an equivalent fraction for 7/12 and I have an equivalent fraction for 3/8. I can now rewrite the problem using my equivalent fractions. I have 14 over 24 plus 9 over 24. When I add fractions, I keep the denominator the same and I add the numerators. 14 and 9 is 23. This answer is already simplified because there are no factors in common between 23 and 24. Good work on practicing adding fractions. Now let's try to subtract two fractions. Let's try 5 over 27 minus 2 over 45. You can put your numerator answer there and your denominator there. Good luck. If you got 19 for the numerator, and 135 for the denominator, good job. Let's see how we got that answer. When we subtract fractions, we also have to have a common denominator. So the first thing that I need to do is find that common denominator. When I use the factor tree method, I need a factor in common. For 45 and 27, that common factor is 9. I know that 9 times 5 is 45 and I know that 9 times 3 gives me 27. If I multiply those together 3 times 9 times 5, I get 135. The next thing I need to do is to convert my 2 fractions that I'm subtracting into equivalent fractions with 135 as the denominator. So, I can take 5 over 27, and I want to have 135 as the denominator. So, 27 times 5 gives me 135 and 5 times 5 gives me 25. Now let's create an equivalent fraction for 2 over 45. Since I want 135 as the denominator. I need to mutliply 45 times 3. And now I have 45 times 3 is 135, and 2 times 3 gives me 6. Now I can rewrite my original subtraction problem with my equivalent fractions. So I have 25 over 135 minus 6 over 135. When I subtract fractions, I keep the denominators the same and I subtract the numerators. 25 minus 6 gives me 19. Now that we've practiced one addition and one subtraction problem with fractions, let's try a slightly more complicated problem. Let's try 5 12ths plus 7 20ths and you can put your answer in these boxes. For question 4, lets try one more subtraction problem. Let's try 7/12 minus 5/28. You can put your answer in these boxes. Good luck. Okay, we've covered a lot of math so far. We've done fractions, we've worked with multiplying, dividing, adding and subtracting them. Let's try something new. Have you ever wondered why your skin cells get replaced? The skin cell's on the top of your hand end up getting replaced. Eventually they die off and they just flying away. You don't ever see them disappear, but they get replaced by newer cells underneath the top layer of your skin. So here's what it would look like for one cell to replicate. So let's start with one cell, and see what happens. One cell is going to split into two cells. It's going to double. I have one cell, and another cell. Then, each of these cells are also going to double. This one will make two cells, and this one will make two cells. And then these four cells will also split. Each one will make two new cells. So here's my question. How many cells will there be after seven rounds of division. By the this segment, you'll be able to answer this question. We're going to figure this out using exponents. Okay, this is just one cell. This is before any rounds of division, so I'm going to mark that off with a zero. This is after the first round of division. I have 2 cells. And then after the second round of division, I have 4 cells. And then, after the third round of division, I have 8 cells. I know my cells doubled every time, so I'm going to use a base of 2. Okay. I know I started with one cell, and that cell doubled. So I have 1 times 2. Then, each of these cells also doubled. So I have. 2 cells doubling or 2 times 2. Then I have 4 cells, each of these 4 cells also doubled, so I have 2 times 2, those are my 4 cells and then they're going to double. There's got to be an easier way to write this. we're going to actually do this using exponents. Notice that all of my multiplication has a 2. 2 is going to be my base. After the first doubling, I have 2 to the 1 or two cells. After the second doubling I have 2 to the 2 or four cells. And after 3 rounds of doubling, I have 2 to the 3, or 8 cells. And after 3 rounds of doubling I have 2 to the 3rd or 8 cells. Repeated multiplication is represented by an exponent. It's very similar to repeated addition, like, 3 plus 3 plus 3 plus 3. I know I have four 3's, or 4 times 3. We use multiplication to represent repeated addition. We're going to use exponents to represent repeated multiplication. So, whenever I have repeated multiplication, I can write the base. Raised to an exponent. So whenever I have repeated multiplication, I can have the base raised to an exponent. Okay. Let's try your understanding of this with a quiz. You can write your bases here, and you can put your exponents here. Remember, exponents are written as super scripts. They're written just above the base. For the first one, you should have a base of 4, since you have the repeated multiplication of 4. And you have it repeated one, two, three times. So, we have 4 to the third. Here, we have repeated multiplication of 6. So, 6 is my base and I have it repeated one, two, three, four, five times. Here, I just have one 7. So, I'm going to put 7 as my base. I don't have any repeated multiplication, I just have the 7 once. So, my exponent is a 1. Here, I have the 3 as my base. And I have the 3 repeated seven times, so 7 is my exponent. Nice work on that quiz. Okay, let's look more closely at the meaning of an exponent. It's easy to think of 2 to the 3 as 6, but we really know this isn't true. I know exponents represent repeated multiplication, so I should have 2 times 2 times 2, which is 8. This is often a common error that students make throughout Algebra. You have to train your eye, and train your mind to think about what this really means. Go slow, and be careful. This is how you can get better at Math, taking your time and asking yourself, what does this mean? Okay, let's try this out with a quiz. Which of these answers had the correct base and exponent for 18? Is it 2 to the 4th, 3 to the 6th, 6 to the 3rd, 9 squared or 1 to the 18th, or is it none of these? Choose the best answer. Okay. The real answer is none of these. For 2 to the 4th, I know that's 2 times 2 times 2 times 2. I have repeated multiplication 4 times, so I get 16. That's definitely not 18. For 3 to the 6th, I have 3 times 3 times 3 times 3 times 3 times 3, which is really 9 times 9 times 9, or 729. That's definitely not 18. 6 to the 3rd is 6 times 6 times 6. So, I get 216. Here, I just have 9 squared. So, 9 times 9. I have the repeated multiplication of 9. Well, that makes 81. 81 isn't 18 even though they both have digits of 8 and 1. For this last one, I just have 1 18 times. That's a lot a 1's. But I know 1 times 1 times 1 times 1 is always just going to be 1. So, this answer is going to equal 1. So, that's not it either. This is why it's important to think about what an exponent means. Most of the math you do on a daily basis involves multiplication. That's why it's so easy to think of exponents as multiplication. We have to slow down and remind ourselves that 2 to the 4th isn't really 8, it's really 16. Just like 9 squared is really 81. Alright. Let's look at some exponent patterns now, to figure out what goes on with other types of exponents. We've seen them increase. Well, what happens when they decrease? Okay. Here, I have 3 cubed, which is really just 3 times 3 times 3, or 27. Here, I have 3 squared, which is 3 times 3, or 9. And then here, I just have 3. Based on this pattern, what do you think 3 to the 0 would equal? Think about what's happening to our answer as we go down. You can put your answer in this box here. Okay, the answer should be 1. Here's how we figure that out. I know as I go from 27 to 9, I divide by 3, and then to get to 9 to 3, I divide by another 3. So to find 3 to the zero, I need to take my number and divide it again by 3, 3 divided by 3 makes 1. That's how I know 3 to the zero is 1. It turns out that this is true for any power of zero. Okay, I've re-drawn my pattern of 2. I know as the exponent decreases, this number also decreases. To get from 8 to 4, I divided by 2. This should make sense because I know exponents represent repeated multiplication. So to drop one exponent, I need to undo multiplication I need to do Division. And then to get from 42, I divide by 2 again. So, I know to get from 2, 2 to the 0, I have to divide by 2 one more time. I have to drop my exponent one. I have to undo multiplication, so I do division, and I get one. Okay, but let's not just stop at zero, let's keep going. What happens if we had negative exponents? I would have 3 to the negative 1, so I know I have to take 1 and divide it by 3. I remember dividing by a number is the same thing as multiplying by the reciprocal. So, 1 divided by 3 is the same thing as 1 times 1 3rd. 1 3rd is the reciprocal of 3 and I get 1 3rd. If I had 3 to the negative 2, I'd need to divide this again by 3. I know dividing by 3 is the same thing as multiplying by a reciprocal. So I have 1 3rd and then times 1 3rd and I get 1 9th. The same is true for 3 to the negative 3. I would take 1 9th and divide it by 3. When I divide 19th by 3, it's the same thing as multiplying by the reciprocal. So I have 1 9th times 1 3rd, the reciprocal of 3. So I get 1 27th. Now that you've seen negative exponents, let's try some of your own. What would be the answers to these negative exponents, 4 to the negative 1, 4 to the negative 2, and 4 to the negative 3? You can put your answers in these boxes. Remember to put the number, the fraction bar and then a number. Alright, so for the first one, 4 to the negative 1. I know right above it I have 4 to the 0 or I have 1. To lose a power or to drop down I need to divide by 4. 1 divided by 4 is 1 4th. For the second one, 4 to the negative 2, I just take 1 4th and divide it by 4. Remember dividing by a number is the same thing as multiplying by the reciprocal. 1 4th times 1 4th. Or 1 16th, and finally 4 to the negative 3. So I need to take 1 16th and divide it by 4. And remember, dividing by a number is the same as multiplying by the reciprocal. So I have 1 16th times 1 4th, or 1 over 64. Nice work on that quiz. With negative signs, reciprocals and exponents you want to be very careful. Math requires a keen attention to detail. Let's look at a couple of scenarios when we'll be working with negatives, so that way you can see what I mean. We have to be careful. Here I know it's just 5 squared or 5 times 5, so I get 25. For negative 5 squared, I have the whole quantity of negative 5 squared, so I write the whole thing in parentheses twice, so I have negative 5 times negative 5. I know a negative times a negative is a positive, so I get 25. Here I have to remember back to my order of operations. Do exponents or the subtraction take precedence. I know exponents come first. Here I have a choice. I could have the 5 be negative, and then I can square it or I could square the 5 and then take the negative. Remember back from the order of operations, we know exponents come first. So I'll have 5 squared and then I'll have it multiplied by negative 1. Oftentimes we don't show the multiplication here, but that's really what we mean. It's negative 1 times 5. This is why we have to be really careful about what we need in math. That's why a lot of times we use parentheses, we want to know if we're scoring in 5, negative 5, or if we're scoring a number and then multiplying it by negative 1, they're all different. So for my answer I have negative 1 times 25, or negative 25, and finally 5 to the negative 2. Remember,, with negative exponents, we really do the reciprocal. So I'm going to have 1 over 5 and that's going to be squared. So I have 1 5th times 1 5th, or 1 25th. Okay, lets try a quiz on this information. Okay, which of the following are equal to negative 9? Is it 3 to the negative 2, the negative of 3 squared, the quantity negative 3 squared, 1/3 squared, the negative of 1/3 to the negative 2, or negative 1/3rd squared. Okay, I know this looks like a lot of negatives, but if you work though it slowly, you can probably figure out what everything means, and get to the right answer. This is a tough quiz, so take your time, and work through it slowly. Okay, for this first one, I know a negative exponent really means a reciprocal. So I'm going to have 1/3 squared. Well that's 1/3 times 1/3, which is 1/9. I know 1/9 isn't equal to negative 9, so this one's out. Here I have the negative of 3 squared. Remember this is a negative 1 in front times 3 squared. Exponents come before a multiplication. So I have 3 squared, which is 9, and then have to multiply it by negative 1, so I get negative 9. That one's right. Here, negative 3 squared is just negative 3 times negative 3, or positive 9, so that one's out. Here, I have 1/3 squared. Well, I know 1/3 squared is 1/9 from before, so I know that one's out. Here, I need to do the reciprocal first. I'm going to flip one third over. The reciprocal of 1/3 is 3. So I have negative 1 times 3 squared. This negative 1 came from right here. Remember, there's a negative 1 in front of this parenthesis. I have negative 1 times this quantity squared. 3 squared is 9. So I have negative 1 times 9, or negative 9. This answer is correct. For this last one, I have negative 1/3 squared. I just write this quantity twice, negative 1/3 times negative 1/3, so I get positive 1/9. That's not equal to -9, so that's not my answer either. Only these two are correct. If you got that quiz right, great job. You really understand negatives and exponents. It's okay if you didn't get it right the first time, but hopefully you learned something along the way, and how to work with these negative numbers. Okay. We're going to cover one last thing with exponents, and it has to do with squares. In particular, I mean squaring numbers, like 4 squared and 5 squared. Specifically, I want to know if 4 squared plus 5 squared is the same thing as the quantity of 4 plus 5 squared. I'm going to draw some squares to help us out. This square's going to have sides of 4, and this square's going to have sides of 5. This square is going to have sides of 4 plus 5, or 9. But I'm going to split it up so that way I can see the side with 4 and then 5. It will look like this. This side is going to be 4 and this side is going to be 5. I've kind of exaggerated it, but it's okay. This side is also going to be 4 and this side is going to be 5. Okay. What I want you to do is come up with the area of each of these squares. So, find the area of this square, this square and then, this square has four different regions. I want you to find the area of each one. So, for example, to find the area of this part, I know that this side is 5 and I know that this side is the same as this side, which is same as this side. So, 5 times 5, or 25. You multiply the sides of a rectangle or a square to get the area. Go ahead, fill in these other areas. I need this for 16 because 4 times 4 is 16, 5 times 5 is 25. This one had an area of 20. 5 times 4 is 20. This bottom side is the same as this top side, so I should have 4 times 4 or 16, and then for over here, I have four for this piece, and four for this piece, 5 for this piece, and 5 for this piece. 4 times 5 is 20. I know 4 squared is really 16, and 5 squared is really 25. I know 16 plus 25 makes 41. So, I have a total area 41. For the blue side, I have 20 plus 16 plus 20 plus 25. When I add all these areas together, I get an area of 81. This makes sense because I know if I would have just combined the sides, I would have had 9, and then I would've squared it. 9 squared is 81. I know these two numbers are not equal. We want to be really careful. Exponents cannot distribute over sums or differences. We can't just say 4 plus 5 squared is the same thing as 4 squared plus 5 squared. This is a key concept that we will come back to later. I just want to preview it for now and give you an idea of area models. This is going to help us problem solve. Now, let's have you practice with some exponents. Now that we know a little bit more about a square or a 2 exponent, let's try solving some problems. Try solving these problems and put your answer in each of these boxes. Good luck. For the first problem, we have the quantity negative 5 squared. We have negative 5 twice and negative 5 times negative 5 is positive 25. For the second problem, we have the negative of 8 to the 0. Remember, when I have a negative sign out in front, it's a negative 1. So, negative 1 times 8 to the 0. Any number raised to the 0 power is just 1 so we have negative 1 times 1, negative 1 is our answer. Number 3 is pretty tricky. We have 1 to the 100. It might be tempting to right 100 as the answer but we really know that this is 1 times 1 times 1 a 100 times. This is a lot of ones. But we know when we multiply all these ones together, we'll just end up with 1. For number four, we have the negative of 5 squared minus 2 squared. This negative sign out in front is really negative 1 times 5 squared, so I'm only needing to square the 5, I don't square the negative 1. This is the big difference between number one and number four. In number one, we had the quantity, negative 5 squared. Here, we only have the negative of 5 squared. So, we just square the 5. Five squared is 25 times negative 1 is negative 25. Then, I have a minus 4 on the end. Two squared is four. Negative 25 minus 4. Well, I have negative 25 and negative 4. So, that's more negatives. I have negative 29. And finally for number 5, we have the quantity, negative 4 plus 7 squared. Remember, we can't distribute the square over the sum. We need to add these numbers together first, then do the square. Negative 4 and 7 make 3 and 3 squared is simply 9. If you got at least half of these right, excellent work. Some of these were a little bit tricky, so it's okay if you didn't get all of them right, but I'm sure you will next time. Okay. Let's get back to our original problem on cellular division. I wanted to know how many cells would there be after seven rounds of division. Remember, I started with one cell, and that split into two cells. You can draw a diagram to model this out, or you can just use an exponent. So, if I started with one cell and had seven rounds of division, each cell doubled, how many cells would there be? You can put your answer in this box. Okay, I know my cell is doubling every time so I have two and then there's seven rounds of doubling. So I have 2 to the 7th. Here are my seven two's. I'm going to group them and them and then I'm going to group these. So I have 16 times 8. I know 8 times 6 is 48, so I put an 8 and carry the 4. 8 times 1 is 8 plus 4 is 12, so 128. So if I start from one cell, after seven rounds of division there would be 128. Okay. Lets put everything you know about exponents together and answer this question. A cell divides into 4 cells after 2 hours. If each new cell also divides into 4 cells after 2 hours, how many cell are there after one day? You're going to need to think about time and how many rounds of division you'll have. Remember you're going to start with one cell, and then it's going to split into 4 cells. So after one round you'll have 4 cells, then each of these cells is going to split into 4 cells. You can put your answer into this box here. Alright. I need to think about how many rounds of divisions I'll have. I know my cells are going to replicate over one day. One day is 24 hours. I know my cell divides every 2 hours, so I can take 24 hours and divide it by 2 hours, that'll give me 12. This is the number of rounds of division I'll have. My cells are quadrupling each time after a round of division. I went from one cell to four cells. So remember, this cell would split into four more cells. This one would, too. And this one would, too. And so, would this last one. I went from 1, to 4, to 16. I'm quadrupling the number of cells I have. So my base should be 4, and I have 12 rounds of division, 4 to the 12th. And I get an answer of 16,777,216. That's a ton of cells. We are going to figure out an easier way to write this number in the next section. Great job for now if you got that right. Now, it's time to practice what you've learned and try if some exponents. You can put your answers in these boxes. Good luck. Okay, let's see how you did. We have negative 4 squared. Well, negative 4 squared, since the negative is not inside any parentheses, means it's not part of the base. So, this is going to be negative 1 times 4 squared, and then we have negative 1. 4 squared, I know is 4 times 4. 4 times 4 is 16, so I have negative 1 times 16, give me -16. Okay let's try number 2. This time I have the negative inside the parenthesis, so that means my base is megative 3. So this ones going to be negative 3 squared, which is -3 times -3. And we know -3 times -3 gives us a positive 9. Now the 1st 2 problems had even exponents, let's try these 2 with odd exponents. The 1st problem I have -2 cubed, which means -1 times 2 cubed. -1 times 2 cubed is -1 times 2 times 2 times 2, and 2 times 2 times 2 is 8, so I have negative 1 times 8, which is going to give me negative 8. OK, number four. This time, like in number two, I have the negative 3 in parentheses, which means it's part of our base. So, negative 3 cubed is just negative 3 times negative 3 Times negative 3. Negative 3 times negative 3 is positive 9, positive 9 times negative 3 is negative 27. If I look at number 2 and number 4, I have a negative number as the base. In number 2, if you notice the exponent here is even. When we raise a negative number to an even power the answer is going to be positive. And number 4 we have a negative number being raised to an odd power. Whenever we raise negative numbers to an odd power, the answer is going to be negative. It's something you can keep in mind. For number 5, notice we have a negative exponent. We know if we have a negative exponent we have to take the reciprocal of base, so 5 to the negative 2 is 5 over 1 to the negative 2 because we can rewrite 5 as 5 over 1 and when we take the reciprocal that's the negative one fifth and we get rid off the negative once we take that reciprocal of the base, notice once I take the reciprocal I get rid of the negative exponent. So we have 1/5 squared, which is 1/5 times 1/ 5. And that's going to be 1 times 1 is 1. And 5 times 5 is 25. So, 5 to the negative 2 is 1/25. Think about how you did. How many did you get right and wrong? Decide if you need to go back and review the material again, before moving on to the next section. This was the number of cells we found from our last problem. Let's think about how big this number is. What digit or digits do you think are the most important in this number? Is it the 1, the 6, the middle 7, the 2, or the last 6? Check the numbers that you think are right. And this is debatable, so don't worry if you don't get it right on your first try. Here is our number in a place value chart. I know that the 1 is really important, it's in the 10,000,000 spot. So this tells us how big the number is. The next important number is the 6. 16,000,000 is halfway between 10 million and 20 million. So I'd want to use the 1 and 6 to gauge how big my answer is. Notice too that if I add the powers of 10 to my chart, I can see that the 10 millions is 10 to the 7th. So this number is on the order of 10 to the 7th. Or at 10 millionths. The 1 is definitely the most important number, and then 6 would be a close second. We can write this number as 16 million, or 16 followed by six zeros. When we think about writing this number, this can kind of be a pain. We have a ton of zeros and our number's pretty big. There are other extremely large and small numbers like 2 trillion and 48 billionths. We don't want to have to write all these zeros all the time, so let's figure out how we can do this differently. Let's learn Scietific Notation. We don't want to have to write these zeroes all the time. It can be a pain. So instead, let's find another way to write these numbers. Let's learn scientific notation. When multiplying by a positive power of 10, the decimal point moves left, moves right, or stays in place. Think about this as your decimal point. And just to note, 0 is actually not a positive power of 10. It's neither positive nor negative. You should look into that if you have questions about it. When multiplying 1 by a power of 10, I can see that the decimal point moves one place to the right, it goes here. When I multiply by another power of 10, the decimal place moves again to the right, right here. So I can easily tell that the decimal point is always moving right. Okay. Let's look at negative powers of ten. Okay, remember, zero is neither positive nor negative. But, my first negative power would be 10 to the negative 1, then I have 10 to the negative 2, or 10 to the negative 3. I know 10 to the 0 is 1, because anything to the 0 power is 1. For negative exponents, remember, I take the reciprocal of the number. So, I have 1 10th to the 1, or 1 10th. For 10 to the negative 2, I have 1 10th squared, or 1 10th times 1 10th, which is 100th. For 10 to the negative 3, I have the reciprocal of 10, because the exponent's negative. And it becomes a three. 1 10th cubed is just 1 10th times 1 10th times 1 10th, or 1 1000th. So, I have 1, I have 1 10th. 1 10th is the same thing as the decimal point 1 because the 1 is in the tenth spot. 1 100th here, it's 01. because the 1 is in the hundredth's place. And then, I have 1 1000th. I know it's 1 1000th because the 1 is in the thousandth space. When multiplying by a negative power of 10, the decimal point moves left, moves right, or stays in place. Go ahead and answer, and remember, here is our decimal. Here's my decimal. I know I need to move it to the left side of 1, so I have to move it this way. My decimal definitely moves left. Let's make sure it keeps going. Now that I have it on the other side of 1, on the left side of 1, I can move the decimal again. When I move the decimal to the left, I create a 0 in that place value. So I move from tenths to hundredths. And here, when I move the decimal again, I'm going to go from hundredths to thousandths. When I move the decimal left, I create a 0 for a place holder, and I move from hundredths to thousandths. Nice work on that quiz. These are the 2 bottom numbers from the last video. They're already written in scientific notation. Let's look at the form. For a number to be in scientific notation, the first number has to be a number greater than or equal to 1 and less than 10. We'll call that number a. Next, we multiply that number by a power of 10, so we have a times 10 to some exponent. Any number written in this form is considered to be in scientific notation Just be sure that this number is greater than or equal to 1 and less than 10. Usually it's in the form of a decimal, but sometimes it won't have the decimal after the numbers, it might just be 6 times 10 of the negative 30. Now that you know positive powers of ten moves the decimal right, and negative powers of ten move the decimal left, let's see you use this in action. Here's another quiz. Fill in the powers or exponents to make each statement true. You can put your exponents in these boxes. Remember, you want to think about where should this decimal point move. How can I can 63, and turn it into 6,300? How many spots does it need to move, and in which direction? All right. If you said positive 2 for this exponent great work. When I multiply by a positive power of 10, I move the decimal two places right. For this next one I notice that my decimal point is here. I need to make it go to the left side of 6. I know that my exponent needs to be negative since I'm moving my decimal left. If I go one spot The decimal would be here, but I need two more zeros. So, I'm going to go one, two, and the decimal will end up here. Remember, I add zeroes as place holders whenever I move the decimal. I move the decimal three places to the left, so my exponent is negative 3. Okay, so, for this one, my decimal starts here. I don't have anything after the decimal. And I notice that I need to move it to the left. So I'm going to go one, two, three, four. My decimal moved four spots to the left. So I have to have an exponent of negative 4. And this case I want my decimal point to end up to the right of 6 and one more place, here. So I'm going to move it, one, two, And then I have to add 1 more spot, where a zero would be as a place holder. So I moved it one, two, three, four spots. So positive 4 would be this exponent. Remember, positive exponents move our decimal place to the right. Negative exponents move the decimal place to the left. For your quiz, I want you to write the number of seconds in 40 years and the length of a red blood cell using scientific notation. You can put your numbers in these boxes. For the number of seconds in 40 years, I know that I need to start the number with a 1. So here's my decimal point. I need to move this decimal place over here. So if I thought about moving this decimal place, I would need to move it 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 places. So I have 10 to the 9th. This should make sense. My exponent is a positive 9, so I just move this decimal place to the right 9 spaces. Okay for the red blood cell I know I have 6, so 6 needs to start my answer. I'm moving this decimal place to the left. because I have 0 still left of 6. So I will move it 1 2 3 4 5 6, 6 places left. So I have 6 times 10 to the negative 6. Okay. Scientific notation is also pretty helpful, because when I compare 2 numbers like the dominoes toppled or. 4 million, I can compare it to 1 billion. I notice that the difference in the powers is 10 to the third. That means there's 1,000 times the number of dominoes. When I look at these two numbers in scientific notation, I can tell how many times larger a number is than another number. For example, the number of seconds in 40 years is 1,000 times the number of dominoes toppled. I know this because the difference in the powers is ten to the third. So the number of seconds in 40 years is 1000 times the number of dominoes. Alright, let's get back to our original problem. Let's use scientific notation one last time. Here was the number of cells that we had, 16,777,216. 16,000,000 was the number of cells we decided upon. We knew the 1 and 6 were most important. So, let's take this number and write it in scientific notation. Put your answer in these boxes. We need a number greater than or equal to 1 and less than 10 in this box. So I'm going to use 1.6. I know large numbers have positive powers of 10. So I know there needs to be a positive number in this box. When I think about changing 1.6 into 16 million, I know the decimal place needs to move 7 places to the right. So I have 1.6 times 10 to the 7th. We're done working with exponents for now, but we'll come back to them later. Let's look at some other ways that we can use decimals. We're going to look at decimals and percents. Decimals and percents are often used in currency and in commercial business. We can buy shoes, sweaters, or electronics on sale. And we often want to know how much does something actually cost. By the end of this segment, you'll be able to find out how much an item cost, like a new pair of shoes. So, here's the problem that we're going to have you answer and come back to later. A pair of shoes costs $80 and is on sale for 44% off, what will you pay for the shoes? The first thing we need to recognize is this problem has a percent in it. Percent literally means per 100 or out of a 100. I can write 44 percent another way. I know it's 44 out of 100 or 44 divided by 100. 44 divided by 100 is the same thing as 0.44. Here's a grid of a 100 squares, or I have 1 block. Of these 100 pieces, I'm going to have 44 of them. So, I'd have 10, 20, 30, 40, 44 blocks out of a 100 or 0.44 and that's this written as a decimal, 0.44. Okay, here are some other percents. I can have 23%, 6%, or 200%. I'm going to convert these percents to decimals. Sometimes, we need to convert percents to decimals in order to use them in problems or to multiply. Okay, so let's use these 100 blocks to help us out. Here, I have 23 squares shaded out of 100. So, 23 divided by 100. As a decimal, that's 0.23. For 6%, I'm going to have 6 blocks out of a 100. So, I have 6 blocks out of a 100 or 6 hundredths, 0.06 Notice that 6 has to be in the hundredths spot. For 200%, I know that I have to do something different. I can color in 100 of the squares in this 1 block. So, I have a 100 blocks shaded, but I need 200%. This is only a hundred out of a hundred, that's a 100%. 200 percent means 200 out of 100. I know one of these squares represents a hundredth, so I have 200 hundred hundredths, or I just have 2 or 2 blocks. Okay. There's actually a pattern here that we want to notice. Let's look closely at the decimal places. Here in 23%, the decimal is here and then it ended up here. For 6%, the decimal started here and ended up here. For 200%, the decimal started here and ended up there. Let's have a quiz behind what's going on with this pattern. What do you notice? Okay, when converting a percent to a decimal, do we add, subtract, multiply or divide by 100 and the decimal moves two places left, two places right, or does something else? Go ahead, make your choices. I know based on our models we have to divide by 100, so division is correct. And when I look at the decimal, here it moved 2 place to the left. Here it also moved 2 places to the left, and here in the 200 it moved 2 places left. Remember, in math, we want to be able to work forwards and then we also want to work backwards. Sometimes it's helpful to convert back to a percent. To get back to a percentage, I would undo the percent. I know percent means divide by 100 and I want to undo this. So to undo dividing by 100, I have to multiply by 100. If I multiply by 100, I move the decimal place two places to the right. This should make sense, because we can remember that multiplying by 100 is the same as multiplying by 10 squared. I'm going to move my decimal two places to the right, because the exponent is positive. So, I'll get 23%. 600ths would turn back into 6% and 2 would turn into 200%. Here are some decimals and I want you to change them to percents. I've already written the percent symbol for you. You want to enter your numbers in these boxes. Remember, when you're doing your math, you always want to write percents. We want to go from a decimal to a percent, so I need to move the decimal 2 places to the right. I need to multiply by 100, and I get 33%. For 25,000th, I need to move the decimal 2 places to the right. That's multiplying by 100, and I get 2.5 percent. For 3.126 thousandths, I still need to move the decimal two places to the right. That's the same thing as multiplying by 100, so I'll have 312 and 6/10 of a percent. A lot of people just read it 312.6%. And again, for the last one, I move the decimal two places by multiplying by 100. And I get point 04%.. Nice work on that quiz. Remember, we want to be able to go between decimals and percents. All right here are some percents, and here are some decimals. For this quiz, I want you to fill in the boxes with the appropriate decimal or percent. You'll need to convert either to a decimal or to a percent. And again with the percent, don't worry about entering percent. I've already done it for you. Just enter the numbers. So for 60 percent I want to do per cent, or divided by 100. I know dividing by 100 moves the decimal place 2 places left. So I get point 6, or 6 10ths. For all these percents I'm going to need to move thee decimal two places left and divide by 100. So I get 5 10,000ths. Here again I'm going to move the decimal two places left. And I get .5302, here when I move the decimal 2 places left I get 2 extra 0's and my decimal point ends up here. So I get this number. Again I move the decimal 2 places left and I wind up with 30. It's probably easier to remember how to go from a percent to a decimal. You just think about what the word percent means. It means per 100, or divided by 100. So, to go from a decimal to a percent, we need to undo that dividing by 100. So we multiply it by 100. So 52 times 100 is 5200%. Multiplying four thousandths by 100 gives me 4%,. and multiplying 1.35 by 100 gives me 135%. Notice that each time I convert a decimal to a percent, the decimal place moved two places to the right. Now that we can work with decimals and percents, let's go back to our shoe problem. And we're going to do a strategy that we've done before. Let's look at a simpler version of the problem. A pair of shoes costs $60 and is on sale for 20% off. What will you pay for the shoes? The key thing is that we do not pay 100% of the price. If we did pay 100% of the price, our math would look like this. We'd have $60 times 100%. I know percent means out of 100. So, I have 60 times 100 over 100. Well, I know 100 of our 100 is just 1, so I have 60 times 1. I could have just gotten that by moving my decimal two places to the left. We know dividing by 100 is the same thing as moving the decimal two places left. So, I would owe $60. Notice, if you have 100% of something, the value doesn't change. My price originally was $60, and if I pay 100%, I still pay $60. For the quiz, what percent of the price do you pay for the pair of shoes? Put your answer in this box. And, don't worry about typing the percent, I've already written the symbol for you. I know if I pay the full price of the shoes, I have to pay a 100%. But I get 20% off of that price sp I should only pay 80%. I'm going to show you how to finish this problem out. So, I have 80% of the original cost. I know of means multiplication. So, I have 80% times the original cost which is $60. I'm going to change my percent to a decimal. I know I need to divide by 100, because it's percent. So I move the decimal two places to the left, I get 0.8 times $60. I'm going to do 8/10 times $60, I get 48. So, I only need to pay $48 to get the shoes. That's a pretty good deal. Okay. Let's try another problem. Your favorite shoe company now only has 200 pairs of shoes in stock. Shoes are selling fast because of the sale. If the company increases its shoe inventory by 25%, how many pairs of shoes will the company have? So the company is going to be running out of shoes. If the company doesn't get any new pairs of shoes, they'll have a 100% of their inventory. Their current inventory is 200, so they'd have a 100% of 200. I know that as a decimal, a 100% is just 1. I divide by a 100 and move the decimal place left, so, I have 1 times 200. The company doesn't want this. If they just have 100% of the shoes, the inventory won't change and they'll run out of shoes. So, in the last problem, we had to decrease our percentage, because we had a percent off, but this time the company wants to increase their percentage. Let's see if you can figure out what percentage of the pairs of shoes you actually want to find. So what percentage should the company multiply by 200, the current inventory of shoes, to get more pairs of shoes? Put your answer in this box, and leave out the percent sign; I've already written it here. We know if we use 100%, the company will keep it's 200 pairs of shoes. We want to increase this number. So we need to multiply by a number bigger than 100%. They want to increase the inventory by 25%. So, we should multiply by 125%. So, let's actually see this problem worked out. I want to take 125% of the inventory, so I have 125% of is times the inventory, which is 200 pairs of shoes from my company. I know percent means divide by 100, so I move the decimal point 2 places to the left. I have 1.25 times 200. When I multiply, I get 250 pairs of shoes. Okay, this is great. And we can actually make sense of this another way. We can think of 200 as four 50's. Each 50 is one-quarter, or 25% of 200. If I want to increase 200 by 25%, I'm going to add another 50. So I have 50 and 50, which is 100. I have another 100, which is 200. And 50 more, which is 250. If you could reason through percentages like that in your head, that's great. If not, you can always rely on the math. The cost of college is about $22,000. Some colleges are more expensive, and some are less. But this is about the average price of college today. If tuition and fees increase by 4.8% each year, how much would you expect to pay next year? Take your time on this quiz. Think about if you have to add or subtract a percentage to 100%. Also, be careful when you convert your percent to a decimal. This is a pretty good problem for anyone out there in school. You could use this problem to figure out about how much you would need to pay for school for a year. Think about if you have to add or subtract the percentage to a 100. Also be careful when you convert your percentage to a decimal. You can put your answer in this box here. Go ahead. Good luck. Alright, so I won't reveal the answer just yet.Let's go through the math. I know if college cost stay the same, I'd have a 100% of 22,000. That would just be 22,000. I am going to increase that amount by 4.8%. So I need to find a 104.8% of the cost of college. Percent means divided by 100, so I move the decimal two places left. Of means multiply and the cost of college is $22,000. Now I'm going to multiply these two numbers together and I get $23,056. Hopefully you're enjoying some education at a little bit less price than that. Alright, nice work on that quiz. And that concludes our work with decimals and percents. Great job. Now that you've learned about decimal and percents, let's check what you learned. If a store pays $23 for a pair of jeans, and marks them up by 32%, what will they charge for the jeans? You can put your answer in this box. Let's see how you did. If you have a pair of jeans that a store paid $23 for and they mark it up by 32%, customers will pay $30.36. Let's see how we got 30.36. Well we know the original price of the jeans was $23 and they were marked up by 32%. Since they were marked up, we add 32% to 100% So 100 percent plus 32 percent is 132%. Remember when you do problems with percents, they, you always have to convert the percentage to a decimal. To convert 132 percent to a decimal, we have to move the decimal over two places. So 132 percent is 1.32. Now, we just have to multiply 23 times 1.32, and when you multiply those together, you get 30.36. Now, one thing to keep in mind is whenever you're solving word problems, you have to remember to put units. So, in this case, we're talking about dollars, so the answer is going to be $30.36. Don't forget to put the dollar sign. Let's try another one. This time, we have a computer monitor that normally sells for $154, and it's on sale for 30% off. What is the sale price? I really like this problem. And this is very useful in your day to day life. Good luck. The answer's $107.80. So if you got it right, well done. Let's see how we got 107.80. I have a computer monitor, and the original price was $154. And, since the computer monitor is on sale, we know that we have to subtract the 30% from 100%, since it is decreasing the price, since it's on sale. So we have 154 times 100% minus 30%. Well 100 minus 30 gives us 70%. Once again, whenever we use a percent in a problem, we have to convert it to a decimal. So, 70 percent is written as .7 as a decimal. We need to move the decimal place two places to the left. So, we have 154 &gt;&gt; Times .7. When you multiply 154 times .7, we get 107.8. Now, this answer doesn't exactly like what we put in the box, because we're talking in dollars and cents. 107.8 in dollars is one hundred and seven dollars and eighty cents. Once again, remember to put the dollar sign, because it's a word problem and we need to include the units. Now that we have a handle on writing numbers in different ways and working with exponents, let's look at how we can calculate answers. Let's start with a story. I set aside a stamp to mail a letter. Then I made two piles of three stamps to mail larger packages. How many stamps did I use? All right, this might be a fairly simple problem. But let's come up with a diagram to model. This is going to be the first quiz for this section. I am going to draw some diagrams and I want you to choose which one best represents my story. A square is going to represent a stamp and a circle around them will represent a pile. Okay, is it diagram A, diagram B, diagram C or diagram D? Go ahead, make your choice. Okay, in my story I had one single stamp so I noticed that in A, B, C, and D, I have a single stamp here. So the difference has to be with the piles. I made two piles of three stamps so I know I need to find 2 piles in my diagram. Answer choice B has three piles, cause I see the three red circles of two. So this one can't be right. And answer choice C, I have one pile of six. So that's not right, either. When I look at answer choice A, I have three stamps in one pile, and three stamps in another. I know that answer A has to be correct. D is not correct. I have four stamps in one pile, and two stamps in another pile. So here's my question again and this is the model that we agreed upon. Lets pair some math with this model.I would have one stamp plus 2 piles of 3 or 2 times of 3. Okay, here's what exiting about this math. I can actually calculate this math two ways, I could do 1 plus 2 and get 3 times 3 which is 9 or I can do 2 times 3 which is 6 and then add 1 which is 7. I know that the second answer must be correct. I have 7 stamps in my diagram so I know that I need to do multiplication first. This 2 has a choice. It can either go with multiplication or it could go with addition. I know multiplication takes priority. That's so that way I can get the correct answer of 7. Just like in my model. Okay, so when I think about the order of operations, I know multiplication occurs before addition. Multiplication has to happen before addition. It's at a higher priority level. It turns out that multiplication is also done before subtraction. We know this because subtraction is the same as adding the opposite. For example, 3 minus 1 times 2. Subtracting a positive 1 is the same thing as adding a negative 1 or adding the opposite. So I can have 3 plus negative 1 times 2. Here the negative 1 can go with either the multiplication or the addition. I know that multiplication comes first, it has higher priority. So I should do 3 plus negative 2 and I get 1. So when thinking about the order of operations, we know addition and subtraction should be on the bottom, they come last. Multiplication should come before addition and subtraction I'm going to keep track of our order of operations right here, and we'll come back to this later. Alright, let's check your understanding of this with a quiz. Okay. I want you to find the value of this expression, use the order of operations that we just covered. Is your answer 34, 44, 53, 63, 126, or something else? Go ahead and make your choice. When performing the order of operations, we want to make sure we do multiplication first. So, I noticed that I have multiplication here and here. 2 times 20 is 40, and 4 times 3 is 12. Now, we can keep working, I'm going to do my addition first, and then my subtraction. 1 plus 40 plus 5 makes 46, and then I subtract 12, 46 minus 12 is 34. If you put 34, nice work. So now, let's consider division. I know division is the inverse of multiplication. So it should also take higher priority over addition and subtraction. So we know in our hierarchy of the order of operations, multiplication and division should come first. Let's consider this problem: negative 3 plus 24, divided by 4 times 3. Here are the two expressions that I could write. This first expression has the parentheses around the 24 and the 4. The second one has parentheses around the 4 and the 3. In this problem it's unclear whether or not we're dividing just by 4, or dividing by 4 times 3. We assume that this is true whenever we see the division symbol without parentheses. The number immediately after it is included or divided into the number before it. So, there's no need to solve this problem. Here's one other word of caution. Whenever we think about simplifying this expression, we don't actually want to use PEMDAS. If you've heard of PEMDAS, then you probably remember that multiplication comes before division. But, this is not necessarily true. Multiplication and division have the same priority whenever we do the order of operations. Students who learn that multiplication comes first using PEMDAS would be incorrect. We know we should carry out this division before we do the multiplication. In general, we should think about doing our simplification from left to right, because multiplication and division have the same priority in the order of operations. So these parentheses are assumed to be the case, so let's evaluate this expression. I have -3 plus 6 times 3. And negative 3 plus 18. Negative 3 plus 18 makes 15. In doing our order of operations, it's important to remember the hierarchy. That multiplication and division have the same priority and should be done from left to right in the order of operation. Let's take this question and agree on the number of stamps that we bought using an exponent. Which of these expressions matches my story? When thinking about an expression that includes an exponent, let's start with one of these squares. I have a 2 by 2 square. I know I can write 2 times 2 as 2 squared, but, I don't have one square in my book of stamps, I have five, so, I need to multiply this by 5. This would be the amount of stamps on one book of stamps, but I have two books of stamps. So, we multiply this expression by 2. If you chose the first one, nice work. This was a pretty tough quiz, so just hang in there and keep trying with these order of operation problems. Here was the expression we agreed upon for the last two books of stamps. I'm going to show you two ways of doing this and then we're going to figure out which way is correct based on our diagram. For this first one, I'm going to start in the parentheses. I know I need to simplify containers first. When I look at this two, I can choose between the exponent or I can choose multiplication. I'm going to choose the exponent first, so I'll get 2 times 5 times 4. I know 2 squared is 4. Right here, I have multiplication. Remember that whenever you have a number outside of a parentheses, we just have multiplication in front. 5 times 4 is 20 and I finish simplifying my parenthesis. Now, I can do 2 times 20, which is 40. This time for this second one, I'm still going to start in parentheses, but for this two, I'm going to choose the, the multiplication over the exponent. So I'm going to do 5 times 2 first, so I have 2 times 10 squared. I know 10 squared is 100, so I have 2 times 100 and I get 200. Okay. One of these answers is correct. I know that in one book of stamps, I have 20 stamps, so in two books, I must have 40 stamps. So here are two books of stamps and I can see that I should have 40 stamps altogether. So I know that this method was correct. So, let's go back and look. Here is where I made the choice. The two could have been paired with multiplication or with exponents. I know that the two should be paired with the exponent. The exponent takes priority over multiplication. So with our order of operations, we know that we need to add in another priority. Okay,. So when faced with the decision between an exponent and multiplication, I know that the exponent or the power should come first. So powers take the highest priority in our order of operations. When doing my order of operations, I know power should come first, multiplication and division should come second, and then addition and subtraction should come third. So you might be wondering where parentheses fit on our order of operations. Well, we just need to make sure we do the order of operations within each parentheses. We need to simplify any parentheses or brackets before we do any outside operations on them. Okay. Let's try out our order of operations with a quiz. Here's the problem, and I want you to tell me its value. You can put your answer in this box here. Remember, if you don't get the question right the first time around, ask yourself, are you making the right choices based on the priority of the order of operations? Alright, when doing the order of operations, I'm going to start within any parentheses I have. I need to simplify this container. So I'm going to leave the 3 on the outside. Now I have 4 times 2 cubed or 4 times 2 to the 3rd. I know I have a choice. This 2 could go with multiplication or with exponents, the power. I know it should go with the power, because powers take priority. So I have 4 times, 2 cubed is really 2 times 2 times 2, or 8 minus 20 times 2. Okay. Let's keep going with simplifying this parentheses. I have 3 on the outside. Now, with this 8, I have a choice. It could be paired with multiplication or subtraction. I know multiplication comes first. So I'm going to have 32 minus 20 times 2. I do this multiplication before I do this subtraction. My parentheses is getting smaller which is good. Now the next choice I have to make is with the 20. Should it go with the multiplication or with subtraction? I know that multiplication comes first before addition or subtraction. So I have 3 on the outside, 32 minus 40. We're almost done, 32 minus 40 I know that's negative 8 so I have 3 on the outside times negative 8. Alright if you have trouble with this part here's what you can do. Remember, subtraction is the same thing as adding the opposite. I could have 32 plus negative 40. Subtracting positive 40 is the same thing as adding negative 40. When I think about these two numbers, I know 40 is more negative, so I'm going to have 8 more negatives than 32. So I get negative 8. And 3 times negative 8 is negative 24. If you got negative 24, nice work. Let's use our order of operations to help us solve this problem. We should solve this problem going from left to right following the hierarchy of the order of operations. Parenthesis and brackets serve as containers, and this should be evaluated before we do any operations onto them. Brackets are typically used only if they have parenthesis inside them, but we evaluate them the same way. We start at the very inside and they work a way out. I'm going to simplify this negative of 5 squared. I know this 5 squared only goes with the power, so I have 25 or negative 25. Now, I simplify this parenthesis, and then I add negative 20 to 3. I lose my brackets because I no longer have parenthesis. I just have negative 17, so I write that in parenthesis. I can't simplify this parenthesis anymore, so now I should go back and do my order of operations. Let's look for powers. I have powers here and here, so I should simplify these numbers. I want to be very careful. I have the negative of 3 squared, and the negative of 2 squared. I only square the 3 and I only square the 2. So, I have negative 9, negative 17, and negative 4. Adding the opposite is the same thing as subtraction, that's why I can write negative 17. Finally, I can add all these negative numbers up, and I'll get my final answer. And I get negative 30. You can think of doing parentheses and brackets first. We don't include them in our order of operations because, well, they're not actually operations. They're just containers. Here's an order of operation problems you can solve. Good luck. Wow, Chris, that's a really tough order of operations problem. But, if you got the answer of negative 88, great job. The first thing that we want to do when we look at an order of operation problem is to do the innermost parentheses first. I can see right here, there is the innermost parentheses of 6 minus 6 squared. So the first thing I'm going to do is calculate 6 minus 6 squared. 6 squared is 36, so I have 6 minus 36. And of course, 6 minus 36 gives me a negative 30. It's important when doing these order of operation problems that you write down all of the operations that you have not yet performed. So I'm going to copy down the rest of the problem. So for this first step, I simply evaluated what was in the innermost parentheses, which 6 minus 36 is negative 30. Now I'm working in the brackets and I know that I have to do my powers or my exponents first. So negative 5 squared is negative 25 and 6 squared is 36. Now that I've evaluated all my exponents or powers, the next thing I want to do is my multiplication. When I do my multiplication, it's a good idea to work from the left to the right. I'm still working in these brackets. So, the two multiplications that I have to do are negative 25 times negative 2, which gives me positive 50. I leave the minus 36 and the other multiplication that I have to do is negative 1 times negative 30 which gives me positive 30. Now that I have finished all the exponents, multiplication, and division within my brackets, now I can do my addition and my subtraction. 50 minus 36 is 14, and then, I can add the 14 and the 30. 14 plus 30 gives me 44. The last thing I need to do is this last operation, which is multiplication. Negative two times 44 gives me negative 88. Here's a second problem for the order of operations. Try this one out. Wow Chris, that's another really hard order of operations problem. If you got negative 675, you got the answer right. Now, this was a tough problem, and I even had to use my calculator. Now, let's see how I got negative 675. When I'm looking at this problem, once again, I want to work from the inner parenthesis outwards, following my order of operations. So, the first thing I see is an innermost paretheses of 1 plus 2, so that's the first operation I'm going to perform. Again, I want to make sure that I copy down all of the other operations that I have not yet performed. Now that I've performed the operation in the inner most parentheses, I can do the next level of parentheses which are these brackets. So, I want to do negative 4 times 3, which is negative 12. From here, I see that I have another operation in parentheses which is 4 minus 10. So, I can evaluate 4 minus 10 which is negative 6. Now that I've performed all the operations inside parentheses, I can move on to my exponents or my powers. So, I have three exponents. I have negative 6 squared. Remember when the negative is inside the parentheses, it's part of the base. So, it's negative 6 times negative 6 which is 36. 3 squared of course is nine, and negative 12 squared is 144. Now that I've done all my exponents, I can do my multiplication and division. The only multiplication I have is negative 5 times 144. So, I can write 36 plus 9, negative 5 times positive 144, I had to get my calculator out for this one, is negative 720. Now that I've done all my multiplication and division, I can do my addition and subtraction in order from left to right. So first thing I have to do is 36 plus 9, which is 45, minus 720. 45 minus 720 gives me the negative 675. Great job. Alright, for this quiz, I want you to find the value of a triangle minus a circle. Let me give you the value of the circle. A circle has the value of 5, so is the answer negative 5, 0, 1, 5 something else, or it's impossible to know. This quiz is a bit tricky, so take your time and think about the value of each shape. Okay. I know the value of a circle is five, so I can replace the circle with a five. So I have triangle minus five. But here is my problem, I don't know what the triangle is, I don't know the value of it. The triangle could represent any number, so it's impossible for me to know how to evaluate this. It's okay if you didn't get this one right. I just want to get you thinking. So let's talk about shapes as variables. Here are the two important points I wanted you to think about. First, is that variables can be assigned a value and replaced. Just like this circle. I could have had a triangle minus 5. I take this symbol, the circle, or this variable, and replace it with this assigned value, of 5. The other important part, is that some variable are unknown. And there value can vary or change. This happened with my triangle, I can plug in any number for my triangle, for example, the triangle can be 10, so that 10 minus, which would equal 5. Or the triangle could be negative 31 and I've had negative 31 minus 5, or negative 36. Or the triangle could be a 1035, and I would get 1030. The triangle could take on any value. This is a powerful concept in Algebra. The idea that a variable could take on any number. We'll return to this idea later. For now, just remember that variables can be unknown. And the value can change or vary. Your probably not use to seeing shapes when doing math. You're probably use to seeing x. Mathematicians have usually used x. And it actually originates from the Arabic langauge, it means something unknown. Okay. Let's try an easier quiz this time with evaluating expressions. You'll need to remember how to perform operations with fractions. Here are some expressions. Notice, I have variables in the expressions. Here are the variables and their assigned values. A smile is equal to 3/4. A diamond is equal to 1/12. You can put your answers in these boxes here. Remember, if your answer is a fraction, enter it as a number, the fraction bar, and then a number. The first number is the numerator, the second one is the denominator. Good luck. All right. For the first one, I'm going to put 3/4 where I see a smiley face. Then, I have addition and then, I have 1/12 for the diamond. When adding fractions, I need to get a common denominator. So, I'm going to multiply this first one by 3/3, so, I get 9/12 + 1/12, 9/12 + 1/12 = 10/12. I can reduce this fraction by dividing by 2. And I get 5/6. For this next one, I'm going to replace this smiley face with 3/4, I have subtraction, and then the diamond is 1/12. Again, I need to convert to a common denominator. Well, I know 3/4 is really 9/12 from the problem before. So, I have 9/12 minus 1/12. And, when I subtract 9/12 minus 1/12 is 8/12. And, the equivalent fraction for 8/12 is 2/3. I divided 8 by 4, and 12 by 4, and I got two-thirds. Here, I replace the smiley face with 3/4, I had multiplication, and then the diamond is 1/12. I can reduce common factors in the numerator, and in the denominator, I divide 3 by 3 and I get 1, I divide 12 by 3 and I get 4. When I multiply my fractions across, 1 times 1 is 1, 4 times 4 is 16. And for this last one, I have 3/4 divided by 1/12. Remember, dividing by a number is the same thing as multiplying by its reciporical. So I have 3/4 times 12/1. I can reduce a common factor of 4, since it appears in the numerator, and in the denominator. 12 divided by 4 is 3. And 4 divided by 4 is 1. 3 times 3 is 9. 1 times 1 is 1. So I have 9 divided by 1, or 9. Nice work on that quiz. When evaluating expressions, it's important that we use parentheses. I didn't use parentheses on that last quiz, because I only had two variables, and one operation between them. But we should always use parentheses when replacing variables. Here's why. Here's an expression of triangles and circles. One thing that we want to be careful about, is what's the operation between symbols and numbers? Well, we assume that there's multiplication between variables, or symbols, and numbers. We don't often show it in algebra, but we want to make sure that we always include that there. We'll see other examples of this later throughout the course. I'm going to assign a value of the triangles to be negative 1. And I'm going to assign the values of the circles to be 3. We want to use parenthesis when we replace variables because of negative sign. Here's what it would look like. I would have 3 times negative 1, because the triangle is negative 1. Then times 3, because a circle is 3 plus 4 times negative 1 again for the triangle. And it's squared. And then times 3, for the circle. And on the end, I would have minus negative 1. To the third. Here, this circle is really an exponent. So I have 3 times negative 1 times 3, which is negative 9. I know negative 1 squared is negative 1 times negative 1. Negative 1 times negative 1 is just positive 1. So I have negative 9, then plus, and then I have 4 times 1 times 3, which is 12. Now, on this end part here, I have to do negative 1 cubed first. I know powers come first. I've rewritten the statement over here, so now negative 1 cubed is really negative 1 times negative 1 times negative 1. I know three negative 1s make up negative 1, the first two would be positive 1, then I'd make it negative. So I have negative 9 plus 12, subtracting a negative is really adding a positive. Negative nine plus 12 is three, plus one, is four. When I plug in the value of negative one for my triangles, and when I plug in the value of three for the circles, I get an answer of four. Alright, let's try some practice. What would the value of this expression be if a was negative 2, b was negative 1, and c was 5? Here, c's an exponent. You can put your answer in this box here. Thanks Chris for that question. The answer here is 57. Let's see how we got that. So whenever I replace the variables with these variables, I have to remember to use parentheses. So I'm going to substitute the values in. I have a negative and then I have a cubed. I know that a equals negative 2. b is negative 1. We want to raise that to the c power and c equals 5. 5ac means 5 times a, times c. So we have 5 times a, a is negative 2 and c is 5. Now we have to use the order of operations to evaluate the expression.First we want to do. Any operations that are inside parentheses, but there are none. So next I want to do my exponents or my powers. Here the negative is inside the parentheses, so it's negative 2 times negative 2 times negative 2, which gives me negative 8. When we raise negative 1 to the fifth power, 5 is an odd number, which means the answer's going to be negative. So negative 1 to the 5th power is simply negative 1. Remember, when we're doing order of operations, and we're doing multiplication and division. We want to perform each operation in order from left to right. So first I have negative 1 times negative 8, gives me positive 8. I bring down the plus negative 1 and then I have negative 5 times negative 2. That gives me positive 10. Positive 10 times 5 is positive 50. Now that I've done all my multiplication and division, and I only have addition. I can do those in order from left to right. So first I do 8 plus negative 1, which is 7. And, 7 plus 50 is equal to 57. Here's another problem with evaluating expressions. Notice that the y is an exponent here, and then, you'd have multiplication between the 3, the x, and the y squared, and the z. X, X is going to be equal to negative 2, y is going to be equal to 2, and z is going to be equal to negative 3. All right. Good luck with this problem and you can portray the answer here. So, did you get 94? Because that's the correct answer. Let's review the steps, and see how we got that answer. When you want to replace the variables with their values, remember to use parentheses. After I substitute negative 2 in for x, 2 in for y And negative 3 in for z, this is what I get 4 times negative 2 to the 2nd power, negative 2 times negative 3 plus 3 times negative 2 times 2 squared times negative 3. Once again, we need to use order of operations to evaluate this expression. First, I want to evaluate my exponents or my powers. I have two exponents, I have two squared here. And I have negative 2 squared here, negative 2 sqyared is negative 2 times negative 2 which is 4. Remember to copy down the rest of the operations that you haven't performed whenever you're doing order of operations. I also evaluated 2 squared and gave me 4. Now that there's no exponents in my expression I can perform my multiplication and division in order from left to right. First I have 4 times 4 which is 16. Then I have negative 2 times negative 3 which is positive 6. Now I can multiply these four numbers together. Feel free to get out your calculator. Now that I've performed all of the multiplication and division, I can go to addition and subtraction. Once again, I do everything in order from left to right. 16 plus 6 is 22 plus 72 gives us 94. If you're having difficulty, feel free to go back and review some of the videos and try again. If you feel comfortable with the material, let's move on. So far in this course, we've seen the operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. We've also looked at some other symbols like parentheses and brackets. There's actually another type of symbol we're going to learn. It looks like this. Now, I'm not, not going to tell you what this means. We're actually going to try and figure that out together. So, let's try and figure this out through a story. I asked four people at Udacity how many candies were in a jar. The person with the closest guess got to keep the whole jar. Here's what they said. Katie said, 743. Kogure said, 728. Andy said, 714, and Kathleen said, 746. There are 734 candies in the jar. Knowing this information, who won the jar? Okay, so we want someone with the closest answer to the number of candies in the jar. So I could do the number of candies in the jar minus the number of candies guessed. So for Katie, there were 734 candies in the jar, minus 743, her guess. I have positive 734, and negative 743. I know that this number is more negative. It's nine more negative. So I have negative 9. For Kogure I had 734 candies in the jar minus 728, her guess. And I got 6. For Andy, he was off by 20. And Kathleen negative 12. There's one problem with these results. We want to know who was the closest to the number of candies in the jar. Katie's guess was off by 9. She guessed 743. And she was actually over by 9. She went too high. So in this case, a negative sign means we were over our guess. Kogure was 6 candies off. She was under. She guessed 728. 728 is less than 734. So in this case, a positive 6 would mean that she was under. Andy guessed 714 and that was 20 candies away from the answer. Kathleen was also over. She guessed 746, so she was 12 units above. The positive and negatives mean something in this context. The negatives mean that we were above the guess like Katie and Kathleen. For Kogure and Andy, however, they guessed below the number of candies in the jar, so they wound up with a positive answer, based on our model. Remember, I shouldn't really care about the negative and positives here. I just want to know who was the closest to the number of candies in the jar. I'm only concerned with how far away everyone's guess was from 734. I don't care if the result was negative or positive. If I want to know the absolute difference, I should use absolute value. This is the symbol that we saw at the start of this lesson. Absolute value is the distance from zero. It just says how far away we are from zero. So Katie's guess was really 9 candies off. Kogure's guess was 6 candies off. Andy's guess was 20 units off, and Kathleen's guess was 12 units off. Notice that the absolute value took the positive res ult of all the numbers. Let's look at this in another example. So the true meaning of absolute value is the distance from 0. Let's take a closer look at this. If I had the absolute value of 6, I would want to know the distance of 6 from 0. Okay here's a number line, here's 0 and here's 6. If I count the distance from 0 to 6, I know I got 1, 2,3 4, 5, 6. So 6 is 6 units away from 0. So the absolute value of 6 is 6. For negative 9, I want to find the distance of negative 9 from 0. Here's 0, and here's negative 9. If I count the distance or units from 0 to negative 9, I know that I'll go 9 units all together. So this distance is 9. The absolute value of negative 9 is positive 9. For absolute value, I know that the absolute value will always be positive. I'm referring to distance. Lets try a quiz. I want you to find the absolute value of these numbers. You can put your answer in these boxes. Okay, for the first one I'm at five, positive five. So, one, two, three, four, five. I know that I'm five units away from zero, so I get five. Negative eight is right here. I know it's eight units away from zero. So this answer is positive eight. Remember the distance or the absolute value is always positive. Here's negative five. And just like the first one, that's also five units from zero, so again five. For 5 plus 2, I'm going to move five units to the right. So I'd be right here at five, and then I'm going to go two more to the right. because I have 5 plus 2. So I end up at seven. Whenever you have expressions inside absolute value you want to simplify them first. Just like parenthesis and brackets. I would have 5 plus 2 which is 7. The absolute value of 7 is 7. For 2 minus 5 I'm going to start by going positive 2. Notice that when the sign isn't present it's always positive. So positive two. Then I have to move five units to the left. One, two, three, four, five. I end up at negative three. I know 2 minus 5 is negative 3. So I have the absolute value of negative three. I'm trying to find the distance of negative 3 from 0. And I know that's just three units. All right, nice job on that quiz. Here are two other expressions with absolute value. I'm going to apply the order of operations and then the absolute value to get my answer. Absolute value acts as a grouping symbol. I need to evaluate any expressions inside of it first. But it's a particular grouping symbol, because it means the distance from zero. So whenever I get my answer, I need to figure out, how far is that answer from zero? Have the absolute value of the negative of 3 squared plus 2 times 4 squared. Remember, whenever there's a negative sign standing alone. It's really a negative 1 times. So I'm going to have my absolute value. I'll have 3 squared, which is 9. The negative one right before it. Then plus 2 times 4 squared. When I look at what to do next, I know I still have a power. I'm going to do 4 squared. 4 times 4 is 16. Now I'm going to do the multiplication. Negative 1 times 9 is negative 9. And 2 times 16 is 32. I'm going to add 32 and negative nine, or 32 minus nine. And I get the absolute value of 23. The absolute value or the distance of 23 from zero is 23. Okay for the second problem I have the negative of the absolute value of negative 9 minus 3, times the quantity 5 minus 2 squared. Remember, here's a negative side standing alone. So I really have negative 1 times this value. So negative 1's on the outside, and then absolute value symbol. When thinking about what to do next, I need to start with this inside parentheses. I'm going to go ahead and list negative 9 minus 3. For this inside parentheses, I'll do 5 minus 2 squared. I know 2 squared is 4. So I have 5 minus 4. My negative 1 is still on the outside. I have absolute value of negative 9 minus 3 times 1. Now I'm going to do multiplication. I have the absent value of negative 3 minus 3,. Minus 9 and minus 3 is negative 12. So, I have minus 1 on my outside and minus 12 inside my absolute value. When I take the absolute value of negative 12, I get positive 12. The distance, or the absolute value of negative 12 from 0 is 12. So I have negative 1 times a 12. Notice that when I take the absolute value of something, I no longer need to write the symbol absolute value. I've taken its positive distance from 0. The distance of negative 12 from 0 is 12. Then, my final answer, I have negative 1 times 12, or negative 12. Let's find out the answer to this quiz? I want you to find out the value of this expression. I have the negative of the absolute value of 8 minus 5 squared. You can put your answer in this box. Good luck. When solving this problem, I'm going to start within the absolute value bars. Remember, I have a negative 1 on the outside, and then, I need to do the exponent first. So, I have 8 minus 25. 8 minus 25 is negative 17. So, I have negative 1 times the absolute value of negative 17. The absolute value of negative 17 is positive 17, so I have negative 1 times 17. Remember, when I do the absolute value of a number, I want the positive result, or the distance from zero and I don't have to put the absolute value bars anymore. Negative 1 times 17 is negative 17. If you got negative 17, nice work. For the second problem I have 2 times the absolute value of the negative of 5 squared times negative 2 minus 1 times the quantity 6 minus 6 squared. You can put your answer in this box here. Thanks, Chris, for that question. This one's a little bit more difficult. If you got 160, you got it right. Even though this is an absolute value problem, we also have to follow the order of operations. The absolute value symbols act as parentheses as well. We know when we're working with parentheses, we need to work from the inner most parentheses outward. So, first thing we have to do is evaluate what is inside these parenthesis and follow the order of operations, and then we'll move on. The first thing I want to do is evaluate this 6 squared. 6 squared is 36, so this turns into 6 minus 36. First we want to evaluate 6 squared. 6 squared is 36, so here we have 6 minus 36. We still have another operation inside the parenthesis before we can move the operations outside the parenthesis. So here I have to evaluate 6 minus 36. 6 minus 36 is negative 30. Now that I finish evaluating what's inside the parenthesis, I can move towards the absolute value symbols. When I'm working inside the absolute value symbols, I still have to follow the order of operations. So I have an exponent. Let's evaluate that first. I have 2 times the absolute value of negative 5 squared. Now, we have to evaluate negative 5 squared. Since the negative is not in parentheses, negative is not part of the base, so we have negative 1 times 5 squared. And we know that 5 squared is 25. And I copy down the rest of the operations. I know when I write two numbers next to each other that I have to multiply them. So the next thing I need to do inside my absolute value is to evaluate the two multiplications in order from left to right. So I have 2 times the absolute value Of negative 1 times 25, which is negative 25. Negative 25 times negative 2 is positive 50. Then I have negative 1 times negative 30, which gives me positive 30. So I have 2 times the absolute value of -1 times 25. Which is negative 25 times negative 2 is positive 50 and then I have negative 1 times negative 30, gives me a positive 30. Now that I've perform ed the multiplication and division inside the absolute value, I can do the addition and subtraction. So I have 2 times the absolute value of 50 plus 30, which is 80. Since absolute value is the distance a number is from zero, we know that the absolute value of 80 is simply 80. So, the last step is 2 times 80, and 2 times 80 gives us our answer of 160. Okay. For this third problem, I have the negative of the absolute value of 3 cubed, or 3 to the 3rd, minus the quantity 4 times 6 minus 5 squared. And this quantity is cubed or raised to the 3rd power. Remember, start with the inside parenthesis first, and then work your way out. You can put your answer in this box here. Good luck. I know these problems are difficult, and they take a lot of practice. Remember you can always go back and review the lessons if you need some help. The answer to this problem is negative 28. Let's see how we got that. The first thing I notice when I'm looking at this problem is that there's this inner parenthesis inside the absolute value. So we have to perform the operations inside the parenthesis. Before we do anything else. When I'm looking at the operations inside these parentheses I notice that there's an exponent, and we need to do exponents before multiplication and before subtraction. So let's do 5 squared. Remember when you're doing problems like this you should always copy The operations that you didn't perform, and only perform one or two operations at each step, so I'm going to copy everything down. The only think I'm going to do right here is evaluate this 5 squared, and I know that 5 squared is 25. The next think I can do is evaluate multiplication and division. There's only one multiplication inside the parentheses, so let's evaluate that and copy everything else down. 4 times 6 is 24 minus 25, and I have to cube that, and I still have my absolute value. Since there's one more operation inside these inner parentheses, I have to do this operation before I can do anything else. I remember to copy everything else down. 24 minus 25 gives me negative 1, and I have to raise negative 1 to the third power. Now I can perform the operations inside the absolute value and I can evaluate my exponents first. So I have the negative absolute value of 3 cubed is 3 times 3 times 3, which is 27. And then we have negative 1 cubed which is negative 1, times negative 1, times negative 1, which is negative 1. Or you could also remember that a negative number raised to an odd power would give me a negative result. Now we only have one operation left inside of the absolute value, which is 27 minus negative 1. So I have negative the absolute value of 27 minus a negative 1, which is 28. From he re, remember that this negative out front actually means negative 1 times, and the absolute value of 28 is 28. So, I have negative 1 times 28, which gives me negative 28. These were some good practice problems for both absolute value and order of operations. Why don't you try a couple more? For this fourth problem, I have the negative of the absolute value of the quantity negative 3 times 5 squared minus 10 sqaured. And again, put your answer right here. For our last problem, I have the quantity 4 minus 10 squared plus 3 squared, minus the absolute value of 5 times the quantity negative 4 times 1 plus 2. And this whole quantity in the brackets is squared. I know this seems like a lot. But if you work carefully and start from the parenthesis, you can figure this out. Good luck. We're going to continue solving equations and this time, we're going to solve some radical equations. We'll use our knowledge of radicals and powers to help us out. When we solve radical equations like this one, we want to isolate the square root or the root on one side of the equals sign. This equation already has the radical on one side of the equals sign. This radical is actually a grouping symbol, and the quantity p plus 1 is underneath of it. So, when we're trying to find the value of p, we want to undo the square root. To undo the square root, you want to square both sides of our equation. We know this since a square power undoes the square root. So, try finishing this problem. What would you get for p? When we solve this radical equation, p should equal positive 8. Nice thinking if you got this one correct. When raising this left hand side to the 2nd power, we'll be left with the expression underneath the radical. So we'll just get p plus 1. On the right hand side, we'll square 3 to get a value of positive 9. We subtract 1 from both sides to isolate p, so 1p equals positive 8. One thing we want to do with radical equations is always check our answer. Sometimes this answer won't work in the original radical. Because sometimes it makes this radicand negative. We don't want that to be the case, so we can take the square root. So let's check for 8. We'll replace p with the value of 8, take the square root of 8 plus 1, which is 9, and that equals 3. We come out with a true statement on the end of 3 equals 3. So yes, this is the correct answer. In general, we want to follow these four steps in order to solve radical equations. First, we want to isolate the radical on one side of the equation. Once that happens, we can raise both sides of the equation to the power that is equal to the index of the radical. Just like in the last problem. We wanted to undo a square root, so we used a square power. Then we can just solve the equation for the variable, and check our answer in the original equation. Keep in mind not to ignore this step. You really want to check your answers here, since sometimes they won't always work. Whenever we solved radical equations, we want to isolate this radical first. So notice here that we have plus 5 next to this radical. We'll want to undo this by subtracting 5 from both sides in order to get this by itself. Once we subtract 5 from both sides, we'll have the cubed root of x plus 1 equal to negative 2. Now, you don't want to square this equation to solve it. What do you think we need to raise both sides by? We do need to raise it to a power, but it's not 2 in this case. Think about what you need to do and then solve for x. Be sure to check your answer and then, write your final answer over here. If there's no solution, then type, ns. Here the correct answer is negative 9. Great work if you found this answer. If you were a little stumped, that's okay. Let's see how to solve it. We want to cube both sides of the equation, since a 3 is our index. A 3rd power will undo a cube root. So we'll have x plus 1 on the left, and negative 8 on the right. We need to make sure we cube this number as well, since we cubed this side. So negative 2 times negative 2 times negative 2 equals negative 8. Finally, we subtract 1 from both sides, to get 1x equals negative 9. Before we finalize this as our answer, we need to make sure we check it in the original equation. So I'll take negative 9 and substitute it in for x. This cube root only covers x plus 1. This means I only need to take the cube root of this expression, and then add 5. So we'll have the cube root of negative 8, then we'll add 5 and see if that equals 3. The cube root of negative 8 is negative 2, since negative 2 multiplied itself three times gives us negative 8. And finally, when we add here, our solution checks. In general when we solve, we want to keep in mind to isolate the radical first, then to raise both sides of the equation by the index of the root. And finally, once we have an answer, you want to check it to be sure we're correct. Try solving this radial equation. When you think you know the value of x, enter it here. Or if you think there's no solution, type ns. For this problem, x would equal positive 1. Nice effort if you got this one correct. To start solving this equation, we want to isolate the radical on one side, so we need to get rid of the subtraction of 1 here. We add 1 to both sides of the equation to get the 4th root of 3x minus 2 equals 1. We want to undo this 4th root. So we raise both sides of the equation to the 4th power. This leaves us with 3x minus 2 on the left, and 1 to the 4th, or just 1 on the right. We add 2 to both sides of the equation to get 3x equals positive 3. And finally, to get x by itself, we divide by the coefficient 3 to get x equals 1. To be sure this is correct, we check this in the original equation. We substitute x with the value of positive 1, and then try and check. Here, we'll get a 4th root, a positive 1. And we know the 4th root of 1 is just 1. Then we subtract to get 0 equals 0. So yes, this answer checks, which means this is our solution. Now, let's make this a little bit more challenging. Sometimes, there might be two radicals in your equation. If there are two radicals, it's best to separate them, so one is on each side of this equals sign. We've seen adding numbers and fractions to both sides of an equation. Well, we can do the same with a radical. We'll just add it on the left, and add it on the right. On the left, we'll just have 2 root x. And on the right hand side, we'll have the square root of 3x plus 9. Now I definitely think you're at a position to solve this equation. Think about what you could do to both sides of the equation to eliminate the radical symbol. Then when you think you've solved for x, type your answer here. Again, if there's no solution, I want you to type ns. Good luck on this one. The value of x that makes this original equation true is positive 9. Way to go if you got that one correct. It was tough. We can undo the square root on the left and undo the square root on the right by squaring both sides of our equation. And this is the step where you might have gotten stuck. We need to square this 2, and square this radical. 2 squared equals 4, and the square root of x squared is just x. This is why we'll have 4x on the left, and 3x plus 9 on the right. Next we can subtract 3x from both sides to get 1x is equal to positive 9. And finally, we want to check x equals 9 in the original equation to be sure we have the correct answer. Substituting 9 in here and here, will get this expression, which evaluates 0. Since 0 does equal 0, this solution checks and you can be sure that is our correct answer. Here's our fifth problem on radical equations. What do you think the solution is for x? Again, if you're answer doesn't check, you want to type ns for no solution. The only value of x that makes this equation true is x equals 3. Great work for getting that one correct. First we want to get each radical on one side of the equal sign. So we can add this radical to both sides of the equation. Now that each radical is on either side of the equal sign we can square both sides to undo these square roots. So on the left, we'll just be left with the radicand, 6x minus 7. And on the right, we'll be left with this expression, 2x plus 5. Next, we just want to solve this linear equation for the value of x. So we subtract 2x from both sides and then, add positive 7 to both sides. This will leave us with 4x equals 12 and then, we divide both sides by 4 to get x equals 3. To double-check our result, we'll plug in x equals 3 into the original equation. When we check x equals 3, we'll get this expression on the left, which evaluates to root 11 minus root 11, which equals 0. Our answer checks so we can use this as our solution set, x just equals positive 3. What about this equation? What do you think the solution is here? For this one, x would equal positive 21. Nice work if you got this one correct. Remember we always want to isolate the radical on one side of the equal sign. So we'll need to add 3 to both sides here in order to get the square root alone. So, with our square root on the left and positive 8 on the right, we're ready to square both sides to undo this square root. Squaring this side gives us 3x plus 1 and squaring this side gives us positive 64. Next we just solve for x. We subtract 1 from both sides and then divide the equation by 3. So 1x equals 21. We check our answer by plugging 21 into the original equation for X. When we check, we get the true statement 5 equals 5. So here is our solution. How about this equation? What do you think x would equal in this case? For this problem x equals positive 12. Great effort for getting this one correct. I hope you're on a roll with these. We start solving by isolating this cube root on one side of the equal sign. This means we'll have to subtract 5 from both sides, in order to isolate this cubed root. To undo this cube root, we raise both sides to the third power. The cube of the cube root x minus 4, is just x minus 4 and the cube of 2 equals 8. Now we're ready to solve for x and we just add 4 to both sides to get x equals 12 and as always, we want to make sure to check. We take the value of 12 and plug it in for x into the original equation. This cube root simplifies to the cube root of 8, which equals positive 2. 2 plus 5 equals 7. So yes, our solution checks. We're almost done. Here's our eighth radical equation. What do you think the solution would be for a? Enter it here or type ns for no solution. a equals 7 for this equation. Great work if you found this answer. This equation had two radicals. So, we want to split them up, so one radical is on each side of the equals sign. We add this square root to both sides of the equation to get our new one. Now we can undo these square roots by raising both sides to the second power. We'll have 4a minus 3 equal to 2a plus 11. We solved this linear equation by subtracting 2a from both sides, then adding 3 and dividing by 2. This gives us a is equal to 7. Now, like every problem before, you want to check this answer in the original equation. We plug in the value of 7 in for a, here and here. And then we get the expression, root 24 minus root 24, on the left-hand side. We know this equals 0. So, yes, 0 does equal 0, which means our solution checks. Here's our last problem for this lesson. What do you think the solution would be for this radical equation? Here, a equals negative 3. Amazing work if you found this solution. This problem is a lot like the ones we've seen before. We want to move this radical to the other side of the equal sign. We do that by adding the square root of a plus 12 to both sides. Next we square both sides of the equation to undo these square roots. This gives us a linear equation of 2a plus 15 equals a plus 12. Next, we subtract a from both sides to get a plus 15 equals positive 12. Then we subtract 15 from both sides to isolate a, so a equals negative 3. Finally, we check our a value of negative 3 by replacing a in the original equation with that value. On the left-hand side of our equation, this simplifies to root 9 minus root 9. We know this is 0, or we could say 3 minus 3, which also equals 0. This means our solution checks so we have our answer. In this lesson, we're going to extend our knowledge of solving radical equations. This time our radical equations will lead to a quadratic equation. We'll apply the same strategy of isolating the radical on one side, and then we'll raise both sides of the equation to the index of that radical. For example, if we have this radical equation? What will we get if we get if we square the left side and the right side? When we square both sides of the equation, we get 2x plus 6 on the left and x squared minus 2x plus 1 on the right. Great work if you found these two parts. We know a square undoes the square root, so we would be left with this expression on the left. For the right-hand side, we want to square x minus 1. This means we'll multiply x minus 1 by itself. When we do that, we will get the polynomial x squared minus 2x plus 1. Remember this is really a perfect square so it follows the pattern a squared minus 2ab plus b squared. We can use that pattern to multiply this more quickly. Now, we're almost to an equation that can be factored. We just need to rearrange the terms, so all of the terms are on one side of the equation. If all the terms are on one side of the equation, that means the other side must equal 0. What I want you to do is to rearrange the equation so that happens. What do you think we'll get here? If we subtract 2x from both sides and 6 from both sides, then we'll have 0 on the left, and x squared minus 4x minus 5 on the right. Great work if you found this expression. Now, this might look a little funny to you, but I just combined the subtraction in one step. I subtracted 2x and I subtracted 6. Keep in mind that we can do this so long as we perform the same operation on the left as we do on the right. So, now this is something we should recognize. We have a quadratic equation on the right side, and 0 on the left side. So let's see if you can solve this quadratic equation. When you think you have the answers, enter them here and write your answer as a set. The solutions to this quadratic equation are negative 1 and positive 5. Nice work if you got these two answers. When we factor this quadratic, we know the first terms in each binomial must be x, since x times x equals x squared. Now we want to find factors of negative 5 that sum to negative 4. Those factors are negative 5 and positive 1. Next, we set each factor equal to 0 and then we solve for x. So, x can equal positive 5, or x can equal negative 1. Now, we might think we have the solutions here to our original equation, but we always want to check. When squaring an equation or raising an equation to an even power, we need to be careful. We don't want to pick up the negative root, so we must check our answers in the original equation. So, what I want you to do is to check negative one and positive 5 in the original equation. What would you get on the left hand side? And what would you get on the right hand side here? Do the same for this side, and then we'll see the result. When we check negative 1, we'll get 2 on the left and negative 2 on the right. This is not a true statement, so we know that x equals negative 1 is not going to be part of our final solution. For x equals 5, we'll get 4 on the left and positive 4 on the right, so, yes, this answer does check and will stay as part of our final solution set. So when solving radical equations, sometimes we'll get a quadratic with two potential solutions. But we need to check these solutions in order to determine which ones actually satisfy the original equation. In this case, negative 1 did not check, so our only solution for this original radical equation is 5. This is our solution set. Try solving this radical equation. Keep in mind you want to isolate this radical before you square both sides. Once you find two solutions, be sure to check your answers and then write your answer here as a set. It turns out there's only one value that makes this equation true. And it's positive 12. Great algebra skills for getting this one correct. Now if you didn't get this solution, that's okay. Math can be pretty tough. So, let's figure out how to do this together. First, we want to subtract 9 from both sides, to isolate this radical. Next we'll square both sides to undo this radical, or square root. So, I have x squared minus 18 x plus 81 on the left, and x minus 3 on the right. We subtract x from both sides and add 3 to both sides to get 0 on the right and this expression on the left. Now we want to find factors of 84 that add to negative 19. This factor pair would be negative 12 and negative 7. It's pretty tough to find, so this might have been where you got stuck. The easiest way to find the factor pairs of 84 is to start with 1 and 84. Then you can just go up to the next number to see if it divides in evenly into 84. I know 84 is even so 2 does go into it. We can try each of the numbers going up and then we can see that 7 and 12 would be the factor pair that we need. They add to positive 19 so they must both be negative if they are going to add to negative 19 and multiply to positive 84... This is how we know this must be our factor pair. Next, we can set each factor equal to 0 and solve for x. So, x could equal 12 or x could equal positive 7. Now, keep in mind that we need to check these solutions. We took the square of both sides, so we might've picked up a root that won't work in the original radical equation. When we check x equals 12 we get 12 equal to 12 so yes, this answer does check. But on the right side with x equals 7 we don't get an answer that checks. We'll have 7 equal to 11 which we know isn't true. So, we remove 7 from our solution set leaving us with just positive 12. What about this radical equation? What do you think the solutions would be here? The only solution for this equation, is positive 8. Great algebra skills for getting this one correct. We'll take the same steps to try and solve this. First we'll isolate the radical on one side of the equation. And lucky for us, it already is. Next we'll square both sides, and then try and factor our quadratic. When we square both sides, we'll get ax squared minus 6a plus 9 on the left, and 3a plus 1 on the right. We move these terms to the other side of the equation, so that way we can set it equal to 0. We factor a squared minus 9a plus 8, since the factors of 8 that sum to negative 9 are negative 1 and negative 8. We solve for the factors of a by setting each factor equal to 0. So, a could be positive 8 or a could be positive 1. Next we want to check positive 8 and positive 1 in the original equation. Plugging in x equals 8, we get a true statement of 5 equals 5. When we plug in x equals 1, we don't end up with a true statement. We'll have negative 2 equals 2. Since this doesn't check, we know x equals 1 is not part of our solution set. We'll just have the answer x equals 8. Here's our third problem on solving radical equations. What values of x do you think make this equation true? Now, write your answer as a set here, and type ns for no solution, as usual. Good luck. Here the only value that makes those statements true is positive one. That's amazing work if you got this one correct. It was tough. First, we'll square both sides of the equation to get 4x squared plus 4x plus 1 equaled to 5x plus 4. Next we want to get a quadratic on one side of the equation, and the other side equal to zero. So we can subtract 5x from both sides, and subtract 4 from both sides. We'll have 0 on the right and this quadratic on the left. Next, we use factoring by grouping to get 4x plus 3 times x minus 1 equals 0. Once we have our factors of 4x plus 3 and x minus 1, we set each of those equal to 0. Then, we can solve for x, so x equals negative 3 4ths. Or x equals positive 1. And like all of our radical equations from before, we need to check each of these solutions in the original equation. When I plug in x equals 1, I get 3 equals 3. So, yes, this will be part of our solution set. For x equals negative 3 4's, we wind up with a solution that doesn't check. We know 2 times negative 3 4ths is negative 3 half, since we can cancel the common factor of 2, in the numerator and denominator. Here we'll just multiply 5 times negative 3 4ths to get negative 15 4ths. We change 4 into 16 4ths so we can add these two fractions together. This gives us a positive 1 4th underneath our radical. W stake the radical of the numerator and the denominator to get 1 half since the square root of 1 is 1 and the square root of 4 is 2. On the left side I changed tho simperer fraction to a mice dumber. Negative 1 and 1 half. We know negative 1 and positive 1 sum to 0, so we're left with negative 1 half. These two statements are not true, so we cannot include this as part of our solution set, it's out. This is why our solution set is only positive 1. Now we're on to our fourth practice problem. What do you think the solutions would be for this radical equation? Notice we have a constant in front of this radical sign. We can leave this in front of the radical, we just want to make sure when we square both sides, we square the 4 and we square the radical. Try it out on your own, and then see if you can find the correct answers, or maybe there's just one answer, or no answer. Good luck. Here the solution to our equation is 2. Great work if you got that one orrect. Now if you didn't quite know how to handle this four let's see how to do it, then you can pause the video once you figure out and then continue solving. To start we'll square both sides of the equation so we can undo the square root. We square 4 which equals 16, and then we square the radical which gives us the x minus 1. Just this radicant. On the right side we square the binomial 8 minus 2x. This gives us this polynomial. We'll distribute the 16 on the left side of the equation to get 16x minus 16. On the right-hand side, I'll just re-arrange the position of these two terms so I have my x squared term first. We'll have 4x squared, since it's positive, negative 32x, and positive 64, or plus 64. Next we want to set our equation equal to 0, so we subtract 16x from both sides. And we add 16 to both sides. We do this since we know we'll get 0 on the left, and this polynomial on the right. We'll have a quadratic that we can try and factor. All of these terms have a common factor of four, so we can divide out our equation by that factor. We'll have 0 equals x squared minus 12x plus 20. Next, we find factors of positive 20 that sum to negative 12. These factors are negative 10, and negative two. We set each factor equal to 0, so x can equal 10 or x can equal 2. And finally, we check x equals 10, and x equals 2, and the original equation. When we do this, we see that 10 does not check, we get 12 equal to negative 12. So this one is not going to be part of our solution set. However, for 2, it does check, so this must be our only solution. So don't worry if you stumbled at the beginning with squaring this 4, if you are able to finish it out, great work. Here's our last practice problem for the lesson. What do you think would be the solution for this radical equation? Write your answer as a set, or if there's no solution, type NS as usual. And, just like our last problem, we have a number in front of our radical. So be sure you square this number when you solve. Here our solutions set is negative 2 and positive 6. That's amazing work if you've found those two answers. First we want to square both sides of our equation. 2 squared equals 4, times the quantity 2x plus 4, since the square of this square root is simply what's inside here. On the right side, we'll square the binomial x plus 2 to get this expression. Next we'll distribute the 4 to get 8x plus 16 on the left, and our same expression on the right. We want to set our quadratic equal to 0, so we subtract 8x from both sides, and we subtract 16 from both sides. This leaves us with 0 equals x squared minus 4x minus 12. Now, we're ready to try and factor. We find factors of negative 12 that sum to negative 4. Those factors are negative 6, and positive 2. We set each factor equal to 0 to get x equals 6, or x equals negative 2 as our potential solutions to the original radical equation. Finally, we check each of the solutions in the original equation and discover they both check. This means we can include both of these numbers in our answer to have our final solution set. Let's learn one last method to help us solve what may look like a quadratic equation. Let's look at the equation x to the fourth minus 13x squared plus 36 equals 0. This equation is considered to be a pseudo-quadratic equation, or a false one. It almost appears to be quadratic, but we really have a fourth power here. Notice too that we have no odd powers of x. We just have x to the fourth, x squared and then no x term, just a constant here. We can change this equation into a quadratic equation that we can potentially solve. This part would be quadratic, since we would have something squared minus another something plus a constant. Notice how the powers on any variable term would be 2 then 1 and then 0, since there's no variable here. In this first equation, we actually have a repeated expression here. When we have an expression that's repeated, we can make a substitution for that expression and replace it so we have a simpler equation to solve. So what do you think is that repeated expression? What should we place inside these parentheses? This pseudo quadratic equation can be written as the quantity x squared squared minus 13 times x squared plus 36. It turns out that the repeated expression is x squared. We'll use that here, and we'll use that here. We know this since x squared to the 1st power is just x squared. And x squared to the 2nd power is x to the 4th. Nice thinking if you found these two expressions. Now, we can use this equation and make a substitution. We can replace the quantity x squared with a different variable that we'll call u. So, here instead of having x squared, we'll have the value u and we'll square it. Here we'll have minus 13 times u to the first power. Again, here replacing x squared with our substitution of u. We're turning our non quadratic equation into one that is quadratic. So now that we've got this quadratic, let's see if we can solve it. What do you think are the solutions for this equation. Keep in mind that you're solving this equation for u. We aren't solving for x, which was the original variable in our original equation. We'll come back to that later. When you have the answers for u, enter them here. Good luck. Here the answers are positive 9 and positive 4. Great work for factoring, if you found these two. We factor this equation by finding factors of positive 36 that sum to negative 13. Those two factors are negative 9 and negative 4. We set each factor equal to 0 to get u could equal 9 or u could equal positive 4. As I mentioned before, we actually solved this equation for the values of u. But we're really interested in the values of x. We want the values that make our original equation true, not this middle one containing the variables of u. So since we've performed this step of a u substitution here, we want to turn these u values back into x values. I'll start by listing my answers, u equals 9 and u equals 4. Now, we can substitute this value of u with x squared. This allows us to get the x values that make the original equation true. We simply just sub each of these for x. Now that we've made the substitution for u, what do you think the values of x could be? When you think you have the answers, write it as a solution set here. Use commas in between each response. Good luck. To solve each of these equations, we need to take the square root of both sides of the equations. When we do this, we need to include the positive and negative sign, since we can have either the positive root or the negative root. So x can equal plus or minus 3, or x could equal plus or minus 2. Notice that we really have four solutions to the original equation. This should also make sense since the degree here was a 4. We'll have at most four solutions to this equation, since the highest power is a 4. This entire process is called U-Substitution. It's when we can take an equation an we make a substitution, to turn it in to our quadratic equation. Here we've replaced the repeated expression x squared, with the variable u. We created this so we could perform the substitution. Now we could have made any assignment for x squared. We didn't have to use the variable u. We could call this t substitution and use t or w substitution and use w. It doesn't matter what variable you use here you just want to make sure you use the same one throughout your problem solving. Keep in mind that we performed this substitution so we could have a factorable quadratic. We factor this expression to solve for the values of u. Keep in mind that these values are not our final answer. We need to find the original values of the original variable, which was x. So we take our answers, u equals 9, and u equals 4, and we replace u with the original variable that we substituted, x squared. We solved for the original variable which is x, which gave us our four solutions. Now if you're not convinced that each of these is a solution, try checking them in the original equation. You'll find that all four of them check. Here's another pseudo-quadratic equation. Notice that we have something squared, then something raised to the 1 power. What expression should u equal in order for us to do u substitution here? In this case, we would want u to equal 4m minus 3. Great thinking if you found it. In general, when we choose u for u substitution, we want u to equal the repeated expression in the equation. Notice that the 4m minus 3 is a repeated expression. We have it squared, and then we have it raised to the 1 power. Now that we have the corrects substitution to use, we can replace 4m minus 3 with the variable u. So, this part becomes u, and this part becomes u. So, we'll have 2u squared plus 7u plus 5 equals 0. Now that we have a quadratic equation to solve, I want you to find the factored expression for the left hand side of the equation. And then I want you to solve this equation for u. Be sure when you enter your answers here, you enter them as a set. The factored form for this expression is 2u plus 5 times u plus 1. And the solutions for u are negative 5 halves and negative 1. Now that's some great work if you got these two correct. To factor this quadratic, we find factors of 10 that sum to positive 7. Those factors are 2 and 5. So, we rewrite our middle term using these as coefficients. Then, we use factoring by grouping to get 2u plus 5 times u plus 1 equals 0. We set each factor equal to 0 and then we solve for the variable u. u can equal negative 5 halves or u can equal negative 1. One of the key ideas is that we need to solve for the original variable. We solved for u here, but our equation started with m. We made the substitution u equals 4m minus 3, so we can use that to our advantage to find the value of n, based on our answers. So, I want you to use your answers of u equals negative 5 halves and u equals negative 1 to find the original values for m. What do you think they'd be? When you've got them, write your answer as a set. The values for m are 1/8 and 1/2. Nice solving if you found these two fractions. We can replace u with what it equaled from our substitution 4m minus 3. So, this u becomes 4m minus 3, and this u becomes 4m minus 3 as well. Next, we add 3 to both sides of the equation to get 4m equals negative 5 halves plus 3, and 4m equals 2. Here I want to combine these two together, so this added together should be positive 1/2. If I haven't convinced you, then think about what we can change 3 into. We can change what this number looks like by writing it as a fraction. 3 is the same as 6 divided by 2. So, really we have negative 5 halves, plus 6 halves. We'll have one more positive halve on this side than we do negative halve. So, these added together will give us positive 2 halves. Finally, we divide by 4 on both sides of the equations to get m is equal to 1/2 times 1/4, and m is equal to 1/2. I know this is true, since, when we divide by a number, we can really multiply it by its reciporical. So, 1/2 divided by 4 is 1/2 times 1/4. And we know that really equals 1/8. So, 1/8 is one solution, and 1/2 is the other. Try doing your own U-substitution problem by solving this equation. What do you think the values of x equal? Be sure you don't give us the values of u. We want the original values to this equation. Good luck. Here, the correct solutions are positive 3 and positive 6. That's amazing effort if you got these two solutions. Now, don't worry if you got stuck or don't quite understand this at all, this is only our first practice problem. Maybe you were able to get the substitution of X minus 2, or maybe even found the values of U. Let's go through the solution together, pause it where you think you made your first mistake, and then see if you can solve for these answers. To perform the U-substitution here, we're going to substitute this repeated expression, x minus 2, with the variable u. So we'll have u squared minus 5 times u plus 4. This is the critical step that turns this equation into a much easier quadratic equation to factor and solve. We factored this using u minus 4 times u minus 1, and then we solve for u. U can equal 4, or u can equal 1. Nice effort if you found these two variables. But remember we're not done. We use the substitution u equals x minus 2 so we need to plug in x minus 2 back in for u to find the original values of x. So if u equals 4 and u equals 1 then we know x minus 2 must equal 4... And we know x minus 2 must also equal 1. Now we just add 2 to both sides for each equation to get x equals 6 and x equals 3, our final solution set. What about this equation? What do you think the solutions would be for x? Perform your u substitution first, find your values for u and then go back and find the values of x. I know you'll be able to do this one. Good luck. Here the correct answers are negative five thirds and positive one third. Great work if you found these two. I know fractions aren't always the easiest to work with but let's see how we got these two answers. FIrst we'll let u equal x plus one. This will allow us to perform the u substitution in this step so we'll have 9 u squared mini s6 u minus 8 equals zero... Now that we have a quadratic expression, we want to find factors of negative 72, the A times the C, that sum to negative 6 are B value. Those factors are negative 12 and positive 6. So, I use these two to rewrite the middle term here. We use factoring by grouping to get 3u plus 2 times 3u minus 4 equals to 0. We set each of these factors equal to 0 so we'll have u can equal negative two thirds or u can equal positive four thirds. Now if you got this far and solved for these values of u great work, keep in mind though we need to solve for the values of x, the original variable from our equation. We use our two solutions for u, and the fact that u equals x plus 1, to solve for the original variable x. So, we'll have x plus 1 equals negative two thirds, and we'll have x plus 1 equals to four thirds. We subtract 1 from each side of the two equations to get these statements. Here, we have x equal to negative two thirds minus 1. So,since I have negative two thirds and negative 1, I have negative 1 and thirds. This is the mixed number. If I change it to an improper fraction, I'd have negative five thirds. For the other value of x, we'll have x equals four thirds minus 1. When I subtract 1, I get to choose what this 1 looks like. Since I have thirds over here, I want to make sure that I subtract three thirds, a form of 1, over here. Four thirds minus three thirds equals one third, and here are our two solutions: negative five thirds and one third. How about this equation? What do you think the solutions would be for m? Keep in mind that we have a 4th power here. What do you think this means for our solution set? As a hint, this is like one of the problems we've done before. Good luck here. The solution set includes negative 3, negative 1, positive 3 and positive 1. Four separate answers. Great work if you found these four. And keep in mind, we should have these four answers, since we have a 4 for our highest power. We can make the substitution u to equal m squared. We know this since m squared squared equals m to the fourth. This lets us have a power of two here and a power of 1 here on the us. Next, we factor this quadratic expression to get u minus 9 times u minus 1. We set each of these factors equal to zero to get u equals 9 and u equals positive 1. Now we're ready to go back and find the original values for m. We use u equals 9 and u equals 1 from the two solutions we found from factoring. We know u really equals m squared. So for this u, we'll have m squared equals 9 and for this u, we'll have m squared equals 1. We want to solve for m, so we take the square root of both sides of the equations. So here we'll have m equals plus or minus 3 and here we'll have m equal to plus or minus 1. So we'll have negative 3, positive 3, negative 1 and positive 1 as our solution set. Here's our fourth problem on u substitution. What do you think the values are for b? For this equation, the final solution was negative 5 and negative 14 5ths. Both of these values work for b. Great work if you found these two answers. I know one of them was a fraction, and you might not have gotten all the way there. But I hope you were able to make the substitution for b plus 3 and at least find the values for u. Let's see how we do that. We can start by making the substitution u equals b plus 3. So wherever I see b plus 3, replace that with a u. Now we want to solve this quadratic equation, so we need to move this term to the left hand side. So, we'll have a quadratic expression here and 0 on the right. After subtracting 2 from both sides, we want to try and factor this expression. We find factors of negative 10 that sum to positive 9. Those factors are negative 1 and positive 10. We use factoring by grouping to get these two factors equal to 0. Then, we can set each of these factors equal to 0 to solve for the values of u. U can equal negative 2, or u can equal 1 5th. So, since we know u equals negative 2 and u equals 1 5th, we can say b plus 3 equals negative 2 and b plus 3 equals 1 5th. We solve for this value of b to get b equals negative 5. Over here, we'll subtract 3 from both sides to get b equals 1 5th minus 3. We'll change 3 into 15 5ths and then subtract to get negative 14 5ths. Alright, here's our fifth and last practice problem for this lesson. What do you think the solutions would be for x? For this equation, x can equal negative 3 or 8 3rds. Good job if you got these two correct. I hope you're becoming a pro at u substitution. First, we'll perform the substitution and let u equal x minus 2. We'll replace x minus 2 with the variable u. Now that we have this equation, we need to move this 10 to the left-hand side. So, we'll have a quadratic equal to 0. We factored this quadratic expression by finding the factors of negative 30 that sum to positive 13. Those factors are negative 2 and positive 15. We rewrite the middle term and then use factoring by grouping to get u plus 5 times 3u minus 2 equal to 0. We use this factoring to solve for the variable u. So, we can have u equal negative 5, or u equals 2 3rds. Finally, we use those solutions of u to figure out the values of x. This was the original variable in our first equation. So, since u equals negative 5. x minus 2 equals negative 5. And since u equals 2 3rds, we know that x minus 2 equals 2 3rds. We add 2 to both sides, to each equation, so x can equal negative 3. Or x can equal 2 and 2 3rds. The mixed number, or 8 3rds, the improper fraction. Nice problem solving if you got here. Here's our first challenge problem for u-substitution. Notice that we have fractional exponents in our original equation. What type of substitution do you think we can use? And be careful when you go back to solve for the original value of a. When you think you've got it, write your answer here. Now of course, since this is a challenge problem, there won't be a solution. Try your best, and if you get stuck, head to the forums and discuss it with some other students. Here's our second challenge problem for U-substitution. Now again, there won't be a solution video for this problem, but there are two different ways that you can solve it. You can either use U-substitution by making some sort of substitution for these negative exponents and this variable. Or if you remember what a negative exponent means, you can rewrite this entire equation and solve it using something you've already done before. I hope you take on this challenge. Up to this point, we've learned many ways to solve quadratic equations. In this lesson, we'll use those same techniques to solve problems involving area and perimeter. Now, remember area is the amount of space in square units that a closed plane figure takes up, whereas the perimeter is the distance measured around the object in units. We could be measuring in feet, in miles or even in inches. As a quick review, what are the equations for the area and the perimeter for these two rectangles? Write the expression for the area here, and write the expression for the perimeter here. Also, be sure you use the variables w and l in each of the expressions. Good luck. The area of this rectangle is the number of square units that occupies this space. So we could find that by multiplying the length times the width, l times w. For the perimeter, we're finding the distance around this rectangle, so we'll want to have 2w plus 2l, or I could write that in reverse order as 2l plus 2w. Either one would be correct. Nice work if you found these two expressions. These two equations can be solved as a system of equations if we know the values of the area and the perimeter. Throughout this lesson, we'll usually see the equations written like this. Here A just stands for area, which is usually a number. And P stands for perimeter, which is also a number. But this equation is pretty important, it turns out P will usually be an even number. And that usually happens, since we have two ws and two ls. So if w is odd, or if l is odd, this number will still wind up being even. So, let's take every number and divide it by 2, since the perimeter will usually be even. So if we divide p by 2, 2l by 2 and 2w by 2, we get this new equation. Now, it may seem like we'll have to work with fractions here. But keep in mind that P will usually be an even number, so P divided by two will just be an integer. Let's see if we can use our new system of equations to problem solve. Here's our first problem. It would take 42 feet of fencing to enclose the rectangular patio. If the area of the patio is 108 square feet, what are the dimensions of the patio? So, here, this is my patio in black and then, this orange part is my fencing. Now, this view isn't so helpful. We're going to take a bird's eye view, and look down into our patio to figure this problem out. Essentially, our pattern looks like this. It's a rectangle in shape, and it has a length and it has a width. What we want to do is take our equations for perimeter and area. And make them into two equations with a system of two variables. In other words, we just want to have two equations with only l and w in them. Since we know it would take 42 feet of fencing to enclose our rectangular patio We know that the perimeter equals 42 feet. Notice that eh perimeter is even, so we can divide each of these by two to get a new equation that is 21 equals l plus w. We know the area of the patio is 108 square feet, so we can replace this area with the value of 108. Now, notice that we have two equations with two variables, l and w. This is a system of equations, and we've solved something like this before. We're going to go ahead and solve this system using substitution. First I'm going to subtract w from both sides of this equation to get 21 minus w equals L. So, now I want you to use substitution to solve this system of equations. We know the length equals 21w, so we can replace this length with 21 minus w. I want you to make this substitution and then solve for the width and the length. After you solve, the length should be the longer side between the two. As a hint, when you substitute 21 minus w in for l, you should wind up with something that's quadratic. Use what you know about factoring, and try and find the length and the width. Good luck here. For our patio, the dimensions are 12 by 9. The length is 12 feet long, and the width is 9 feet long. Great thinking if you found these two numbers. Now, this required us to solve a quadratic equation. So don't worry if they give you trouble. We haven't even done a problem like this yet. We're going to start by taking our area equation, and we're going to replace this l with the expression 21 minus w. We want to make sure we use parentheses, here, since we're replacing this l with this expression. We'll need to multiply w to each of these terms inside the parentheses. So, 21 times w equals 21w, and negative w times w is negative w squared. We need to set this equation equal to 0. So, we arrange these two terms and move them to the other side. So, we'll subtract 21w from both sides, and add w squared to both sides. This leaves us with w squared, minus 21w, plus 108 equals 0. Now we're ready to try to factor our quadratic. We want to find factors of 1 times 108. Or just 108 that sum to negative 21. Those two factors are negative 9 and negative 12. If we set each factor equal to 0, then we know that w could equal positive 9, or w can equal positive 12. And maybe this is where you might have gotten confused. We have the width can equal 9, or the width can equal 12. If the width does equal 9, we know that the entire perimeter should be 42. So doing some mental math, we know that the length would have to be 12 in order for the entire perimeter to be 42 feet. We could get that same result by using our area formula. We know this area is 108. And now we know the width. The width is 9, so we divide both sides by 9 to get the length, is equal to 12 or 12 feet. Now if we would have let the width equal 12 feet, we would have gotten this rectangle. It's really the same exact rectangle, it's just been rotated 90 degrees. The longest dimension of a closed figure or any three dimensional shape is considered to be the length. So instead of making the width equal 12, we'll make the length equal 12, and the width equal 9. Finally it's always best to check your result, to make sure that the perimeter and the area are what we expect it to be. If we add up all the sides together, we get a perimeter of 42, just like what was stated in our problem. And if we multiply the length and the width, we get an area of 108 square feet. This is why we know these two answers are correct. Let's try our second problem using area and perimeter. This time we're going to fence in a garden. You want to enclose a rectangular garden with 36 feet of fencing. So, this would be the fencing around your garden. If you need 72 square feet of garden to grow all the vegetables you want to plant, what should be the dimensions of the garden? Now, I don't want to find the dimensions of the garden just yet. Let's do this problem in a couple steps. Start solving this problem by writing two equations for the perimeter and the area. Since you want to write two equations, these boxes need to have an equals sign in them. Some expression on the left, and then some expression on the right. For the perimeter, we want to use the fact that we can enclose the garden with 36 feet of fencing. This means that the distance around our garden would be 36 feet. So that's the perimeter. We know that 36 would equal 2l plus 2w. We have two lengths and then two widths. The other piece of information we know is that the garden is 72 square feet. That's the space we need to plant all of our vegetables. So, this area inside in the green. So we know 72 would equal the length times the width. This would be how we find the area, the product of these two dimensions. Excellent work if you found these two equations. Now that we have an equation for the perimeter and an equation for the area, let's try and rearrange this equation to solve it for l. We want to solve this equation for the length, so that way, we can perform the substitution for the length in this equation. We'll be able to solve this system of equation by doing so. So take this equation and solve it for l. What do you think we would get here? We should get the expression 18 minus w. So for our equation, we know 18 minus w equals l. We get this equation by taking our perimeter equation, and first, dividing each term by 2. Each of these is even, so we know we can divide by 2 to get 18 equals l plus w. And finally, we just subtract w from both sides to get 18 minus w equals l. So, we know this perimeter equation is really the same as 18 minus w equals l. And here, our area equation stays the same. Now we're ready to perform substitution. We know the length equals 18 minus w, so we can replace this length with this expression. Be sure you use parentheses when you replace the length with 18 minus w. And then, try and solve for the width and the length. Keep in mind that the length should be the longer side for whichever value you find. Good luck. The dimensions of our garden are 12 feet in length, and 6 feet in width. Nice solving if you found these two answers. Now, we're just getting warmed up, so if you didn't get it, that's okay. Let's see how we solve. First we replace this variable l with the equivalent expression 18 minus w. That goes inside parenthesis here. Next we multiply each term in the parenthesis by w. So, we'll have 18w minus w squared. Again, we have a quadratic equation here, since we have w squared. So we want to move all these terms to the left-hand side so our w squared will be positive. So we'll add w squared to both sides and we'll subtract 18w from both sides. This gives us w squared minus 18w plus 72 on the left. And zero on the right. Next, we want to factor this quadratic. So, we find factors of one times 72, equals 72, that sum to negative 18. These two factors are negative six and negative 12. We'll set each factor, equal to zero, so the width can equal six or the width can equal 12. We know the length should be 12 feet and the width should be 6 feet, since the length is the longer side. You'll notice that it doesn't matter which value that we use for w. The final result will be the same rectangular garden. It will be 12 feet by 6 feet. And as always, we can quickly check to make sure these dimensions are correct. If we go all the way around our garden, we'll have the perimeter, which is 12 plus 6 plus 12 plus 6, which equals 36 feet altogether. This checks, since this is what we expected the perimeter to be in our original problem. For the area, we multiple 12 by 6 to get 72 feet squared. This also checks, which is great, since 72 was the area of our garden originally. Now, let's see if you have the hang of this. What do you think would be the dimensions of a rectangle that had a perimeter of 25 inches and an area of 32 inches squared? Write your answer for the length here and you answer for the width here. Notice also, that I've already included the units of inches for both dimensions. You won't need to type that in. And, keep in mind, the length is always the longer side. Good luck. Here, the dimensions of the rectangle are 8 inches by 4 inches. Great thinking if you found these numbers. We begin solving by starting with an equation for the perimeter and the equation for the area. We know the value of the perimeter here. The perimeter is 24 inches, so we can replace P with 24. For the area equation, we know A equals l times w. We can replace it this value of A with its numerical value, 32. Now that we have these two equations, we want to solve this one for the value of l. So we can use substitution to solve. We'll divide each term by 2 to get 12 equals l plus w, and then we'll subtract w from both sides to get 12 minus w equals l. And now, here comes the substitution. We replace l with this expression, 12 minus w here. We multiply each term in the parentheses by w to get 32 equals 12w minus w squared. Then, to solve this quadratic, we move these terms to the opposite side of the equation to set it equal to 0. We factor this quadratic by finding factors at positive 32 at sum to negative 12. Those factors are negative 8 and negative 4. And finally, we set each factor equal to 0, so w can equal positive 8 or w can equal positive 4. We know the width should be the shorter dimension, so that will be 4 and our length would be 8. Our unit of measurement is in inches on all sides and we can quickly check to verify the perimeter and area for our problem. If we add up all the sides around the object, we'll get 24 inches. So yes, that checks with our original problem. And if we multiply the length times the width, 8 times 4 equals 32 inches squared, which was our original area. Now, it's okay if you didn't get all of this, but hopefully, you made your way at least to the factoring. Great job if so. Here's your second problem using area and perimeter. This time, you want to construct an enclosed dog run using 46 feet of fencing. If you only have enough concrete to cover 120 square feet, what should be the dimensions of your dog run? Now, you might not even know what a dog run is, but it's just like a patio or even a rectangular garden. Try doing some research to find out what the diagram looks like. Then, see if you can create a diagram to help you problem solve. When you think you have the length and width, enter them here. The length should be 15 feet and the width should be 8 feet. Nice problem solving for getting that one correct. To start solving, I would draw a rectangle. We'll have a width here and a length here. A dog run is just an enclosed rectangular area where a dog can play. This would be a bird's eye view or looking down from up top, into a dog run. We want to start by working on an equation for the perimeter and the area. Since we enclosed the dog run using 46 feet of fencing, we know that all of these or these sides added together would be the perimeter or 46 feet. We have enough concrete to cover 120 square feet. So the area of this rectangle, in the gray, is 120 feet squared. That's what we can use for A. Now that we have these two equations, we can start to solve our system of equations. We want to solve this equation for the length, and then substitute that expression in here. I've taken this equation and rewritten it here. We'll divide each of the terms by 2, and then we'll subtract w from both sides to get 23 minus w equals l. We don't change the equation involving the area, and now, we're ready to substitute the value of l, here, for 23 minus w. So after we substitute, we'll have the equation 120 equals the quantity 23 minus w, times w. We distribute the w to each of the terms to get this new equation. And now, we want to solve this quadratic. We add w squared to both sides and subtract 23w from both sides to get our new equation. We factor this quadratic by finding factors of a 120 that sum to negative 23, those factors are negative 15 and negative 8. This means we set each factor equal to 0, so w can equal positive 15 or w can equal positive 8. We usually consider the width to be the shorter side, so the width will be 8 feet, and the length will be 15 feet. And, as a quick check, if we add up all the sides around the rectangle, we'll get 46 feet, which was our original perimeter. And for the area, if we multiply the length times the width, we'll have 15 times 8, which equals 120 feet squared. This also checks. This means the dimensions are 15 feet by 8 feet, the length by the width. Here's our third practice problem for geometry applications using quadratics. If it takes 42 feet of screening to enclose a sunroom at a house, and if the area of that room is 108 square feet, what are the dimensions of that room? Enter the length in feet here, and the width in feet here. Here the length is 12 feet and the width is 9 feet. Great work if you found those. As always, we want to start by writing the two equations for perimeter and area. We know we're going to surround or enclose our sunroom with 42 feet of screening. This means that 42 must be the perimeter. The area of the room is 108 square feet. So, with area, we'll put 108. We'll rearrange this perimeter equation to get 21 minus w equals l. We get that by dividing each of the terms by two first, and then subtracting w from both sides. Now we're ready to substitute. We replace l with it's equivalent expression, 21 minus w here. Then we distribute w to each of the terms to get 108 equals 21 w minus w squared. Next we want to set this equation equal to 0, so we'll move these two terms to the left side. So, our w squared term will end up being positive. So, adding w squared to both sides, and subtracting 21 w from both sides we'll get this equation. Next we want to factor this quadratic by finding factors of 108 that sum to negative 21. Those factors are negative 12 and negative 9. Then we set this factor equal to 0, and this factor equal to 0. So, w can equal 12, or w can equal 9. We know the width should be the shorter side, so we'll have this width as 9 feet and this length as 12 feet. And as a quick check we can add up all the sides to make sure that the sum is 42 feet, that's our perimeter. And finally we check the area by multiplying the width times the length. Or 9 times 12 which equals 108 feet squared, our original area. Let's continue using our equation solving skills to tackle some other problems. This time we're going to try motion problems. The primary concept we're dealing with, with motion problems is distance equals rate times time. For any object that moves at a constant rate. We can find the distance that it travels by multiplying its rate by its time. The time is how long the object is traveling at that given rate. So, let's say a car is traveling at 60 miles per hour and it traveled for 2 hours. Well, that means in 1 hour it goes 60 miles, so in 2 hours it goes double that, which is 120 miles. This formula should make sense, and the units down here should also make sense. We know if we multiply miles per hour times the number of hour, our hours will cancel leaving us with just miles. So if we know that distance equals rate times time. What equations could we write for the rate and for the time? In other words, I want you to solve this equation for r and write the expression here. And then solve this equation for t, and write that expression here. Well, we know the rate has to be the distance divided by the time. An easy way to think about it is just a rate, like miles per hour. We know miles is a distance, per, which means we'll use division, an hour, which is time. If we want to solve using algebra, we'll take this equation and we'll divide both sides By the variable t. This will isolate the r. So we know the rate is distance divided by time. If we want to solve for time, then instead of dividing both sides by t, let's divide both sides by r. When we divide this side by r and this side by r, we'll get d divided by r is equal to 1 t. So we know the amount of time an object traveled would be its distance traveled divided by its rate. Let's see if we can tackle a motion problem together. Janet and Rohan agree to meet at LAX, the Los Angeles airport. Janet's going to travel 250 miles, while Rohan is going to travel 300 miles. If Rohan travels 20 miles faster than Janet, and they both spend the same amount of time traveling let's see if we can find Janet's speed. Now this looks like a complicated problem but we're going to break it up into steps and see if we can tackle it together. Now for any of these motion problems I think it's best to use a table. A table like this helps us organize our information so we can figure out the distance, the rate and the time for each of the objects. In this case we're wondering about Janet's speed and Rohan's speed. So read through this problem and then when you think you understand it try to identify what should be the variable. Which of these amounts should be our variable so that way we can set up the right expressions to begin solving our problem. In our problem, we're looking for Janet's speed. So, I think it's best if we let that be our variable. So, we can use a variable like x to represent her rate or her speed. So now that we know Janet's speed, let's see if we can find some of this other missing information. Let's start with distance. How far did Janet travel and how far did Rohan travel? Enter those answers here. And don't worry about entering the units, I've already included them in our table. Well, we know Janet travels 250 miles, since that's stated in the problem. And Rohan's distance, it's 300, so we put 300 here. This is great. We've filled in half of our table already, and we're almost ready to set up some equations. But there is something else that we can figure out. Let's see if we can figure out Rohan's rate. What expression do you think we could write here? You'll need to think about the relationship between Janet's rate and Rohan's rate to answer this question. Good luck. We know Rohan traveled 20 miles per hour faster than Janet. We don't know Janet's speed, since it's just x, but we do know that Rohan would be 20 more than this. So Rohan's speed must be x plus 20. We simply just add on our 20 to x, which is Janet's speed. Alright, this is great. Now, we have Janet's distance and rate, and Rohan's distance and rate. We just need to find expressions for time for Janet and for Rohan. We know that distance equals rate times time. That was the problem we saw at the beginning of this lesson. And in fact, we saw that we could take this equation and manipulate it to have these other equations. So if we want to find the time, we can simply divide the distance by the rate. This is what we're going to use in our problem. Knowing this, I want you to use this information in the table to find an expression for Janet's time and for Rohan's time. Janet's time would be 250 divided by x, and Rohan's time would be 300 divided by x plus 20. Remember, time equals distance divided by rate. So we just take Janet's distance 250, and divide it by her rate, which is x. We do the same thing for Rohan. We take his distance of 300 and divide it by his rate, which is x plus 20. All right, great. We've completed a table full of information. We have information about Janet and information about Rohan. Now, there's one last critical piece to this motion problem. And it's right here. We know Janet and Rohan spend the same amount of time traveling. This means Janet's time has to equal Rohan's time. It means that we can set up an equation. So what equation can we write to solve for Janet's speed? Put that equation here. Well, we know Janet's time is equal to Rohan's time. So we just set these two expressions equal to each other. Now this is a really powerful concept. We were able to use a variable for Janet's speed, relate all this other information, to come up with an equation relating the time for both Janet and Rohan. This is why it's so important when you tackle motion problems, it's best to organize your information in a chart. See if you can find relationships between the variables and any numbers that you are given. In our case, we knew that Janet and Rohan took the same amount of time to get to LAx. So we can set this time equal to this time. So, now that we have an equation, we're ready to solve. I want you to find x and then tell me, what's Janet's speed and what's Rohan's speed. Good luck. what we saw for x janet is traveling at 100 miles per hr.(mph). and rohan travels at 120 mph. great work if we found these 2 answers. To start solving these equation we will cross multiply . this is really the same as multiplying by the lcd of x(x+20) on both sides. if we multiply this side by x(x+20) we will be left with 250(x+20) . and if we multiply this side by x(x+20) we will be left with 300x. since the x+20 reduced to one. now I won't show that for the rest of the lesson but whenever we cross multiply we should understand thats what we are really doing. so 250(x+20)=300x we distribute 250 to both of the terms to get 250x+5000=300x we subtract 250xfrom both sides to began to isolate x. so 5000=50x. and then finally we divide both sides by 50 to get x is equal to 100(100=x). so we solve for x.but what is x? we want to think back to our problem.where could we originally set x to equal. choose the best choice from each of these . well we know x is janet's speed. when we first started solving problem we wanted to find janet's speed. so we let janet's speed or her rate equal x. we didn't know it.from there we were able to fill in the other pieces of information. we knew janet's distance and rohan's distance and we also knew that rohan traveled 20 mph faster than janet. once we have these 4 pieces of information we were able to write expressions for each of the person's time. we knew janet's time 250/x.and rohan's time 300/x+20. and since they both spend the same amount of time traveling we can say janet's time equal to rohan's time. we took the equation we saw for x which is janet's speed. 100 mph.so if this was janet's speed then we know rohan's speed as well. he traveled 20 mph faster than janet. so we just add on 20 to janet's speed which equals 120 mph for rohan. Let's try a second problem on motion. This time, we have a bus traveling 10 miles per hour slower than a passenger van. If the bus can travel 200 miles in the same amount of time that the van can travel 240 miles, find the speed of each vehicle. Now, we're not going to do this entire problem in one step. But if you can, great. We're going to break this problem into steps just like we did before. So we have a bus and we have a van. Which of these do you think would be the best choice for our variable? In this case, I think it's best to make the speed of the van be the variable. We're going to let this equal x. Now, we could let the bus be the variable x, and I know it's not that clear since we need to find the speed of each of the vehicles. But we do know that the bus travels ten miles per hour slower than the van. So, if we let x be the van, we can easily write an expression for the rate of our bus. So, now that we have x to be the speed of the van, I want you to fill in these other missing parts of our table. We can use this statement to figure out what the speed of the bus would be and then we could fill in the distances, and then the times. Since the bus travels 10 miles per hour slower than the van, we can use x minus 10 for the bus's rate. We know the bus can travel 200 miles, so that distance is 200. Our van on the other hand travels 240 miles in that same amount of time, and if we remember from before. We know distance equals rate times time. So we know time is equal to the distance divided by the rate. So to find the amount of time it takes the bus to travel 200 miles, we takes 200 and we divide it by the rate, x minus 10. This is our expression for time. And for the van, we take its distance, 240, and we divide it by its rate which is x. And here's our complete table. Great work if you found most of these answers. Even more amazing if you got them all correct, even if it wasn't your first try. So now that we have all the information we need, let's see if we can solve. I want you to set up the equation that we'll need in order to solve for x. Here, the equation we can write is 200 divided by x minus 10 equals 240 divided by x. Great thinking if you found this equation. The key is that the bus can travel 200 miles in the same amount of time that the van can travel 240 miles. So, this time, for the bus to travel 200 miles has to be equal to this time for the van to travel 240 miles. So, use your equation to figure out the speed of the bus and the speed of the van. Enter the numbers for each of those here. It turns out that the bus travels at 50 miles per hour, and the van travels at 60 miles per hour. Great algebra solving if you got those two correct. We can start solving this equation by multiplying both sides by the lowest common denominator. That would be x times x minus 10. We're really just cross multiplying, so we get 200x equal 240 times x minus 10. Next, we distribute the 240 to get this equation and then we subtract 240x from both sides. This leads us to this equation which we can then use to solve for x. We just divide both sides by negative 40. So we'll have 1x is equal to 60. Now that we've solved for x, we want to remember what it actually represents. In this case we know x was the speed or the rate of the van. So, we know the van speed is really 60 mph, and the bus's speed would have to be 10 less than that. So the bus traveled at 50 mph. Here's our last motion problem for this lesson. Olivia can ride her bike 4 mph faster than Terrance. If Olivia can go 30 miles in the same time that Terrance can go 15 miles, what are their speeds? Again I think its best to use a table for a problem like this. So let's organize our information. We'll have Olivia and her distance, rate and time. And then we'll have Terrance and his distance, his rate and his time. So let's see if you can fill in all the missing parts to our table. Put in the correct number or the correct expression in each part. Also be sure that you use x for your variable. Think carefully about which item should be the variable here. And good luck! We know Olivia can travel 30 miles, so we'll have her distance as 30. And Terrance can go 15 miles, so his distance would be 15. And here's where we want to be careful. We can either let x be Olivia's rate or Terrance's rate. We know Olivia can go 4 miles per hour faster than Terrance. So we'll just add four to whatever Terrance's rate is. We don't know Terrance's rate, so I think it's best to use x here. If we do this, Terrance will be x and Olivia will be four more than that, four x plus four. And finally, to find the time, we'll take the distance of Olivia and divide it by her rate. So the time is 30 divided by x plus 4. We do the same thing for Terrance, since his time would be distance divided by rate, or 15 divided by x. Now that we have all of our information, let's write one equation to solve for x. What do you think it is? Our equation would be 30 divided by x plus 4 equals 15 divided by x. Great thinking if you found this. Again the key works here are in the same time. We know Olivia can bike 30 miles in the same time that Terrance can go 15. So, since we have expressions for time, for those two distances, we can set these times equal to one another. So use this equation and figure out what's Olivia's speed and what's Terrance's speed. Olivia bikes at e miles per hour and Terrance bikes at 4 miles per hour. Great solving for getting these two correct. We start solving the equation by cross multiplying. So we'll have 30 times x equals x plus 4 times 15. Then we distribute 15 to both of these terms to get 30 x equals 15 x plus 60. We subtract 15 x from both sides to get 15 x equals 60. And finally, we take our equation and we divide each side by 15 to get x is equal to 4. We know x really represents Terrance's speed. So Terrance's speed is 4 miles per hour. Olivia bikes 4 miles per hour faster than Terrance. So we know she travels at 8 miles per hour. In the last lesson, we looked at Motion Problems, by looking at the distance, rate and times of different objects. We saw how fast some people could bike and we saw how fast some things could travel. We're going to tackle a similar Motion Problem, this time it's going to involve a current. And in order to solve these problems involving current, we want to be clear on 2 words, upstream and downstream. If we think about swimming laps inside of a pool, I could say that my speed would be 5 miles per hour. That's about how fast I swim from each side of the pool. 5 miles per hour would be considered to be my speed in still water, since there's no current pushing me forward or backward. I'm just swimming along inside of a pool. But what if instead I went swimming in a river? A river has a current to it, so if i swim downstream I would be swimming with the current. And if I swim upstream i would be going again the current. If the speed of the current is 3 miles per hour. And I know that in still water I can swim 5 miles per hour, what would be my speed if I was traveling downstream? And, what would be my speed if I traveled upstream? Write those 2 answers here. Well, if I'm traveling downstream, I can travel 8 miles per hour. And if I'm traveling upstream, I can only go 2 miles per hour. Good work if you figured these two out. One way to think about this is just by adding two vectors. We know that I can travel at 5 miles per hour. And a current's going to help me along. So, that's going to push me another 3 miles per hour. Now this only happens when I travel downstream, I get pushed along by the current. So, my total speed would be 8 miles per hour. But let's say I decide to swim upstream instead. Notice that the current is going against me. We're moving in opposite directions. This means that my rate of 5 miles per hour is slowed down by 3 miles per hour. So, I can only travel at 2 miles per hour. We'll use this knowledge of downstream and upstream to help us solve a motion problem with the current. We know that if we travel downstream we'll end up be travelling faster since we'll be going with the current. But if we travel upstream we'll have to be going slower since we're going against it. Let's see if we can solve this first motion problem together. You take a boat upstream for ten miles, and then back down for 15 miles. If the speed of the current in the river is five miles per hour, and you make the entire trip in one hour, let's see if you can find the speed of the boat in still water. Just like all the motion problems we've encountered up until this point, we want to use a table to help us organize all this information. So here's my table and we'll have the distance for the boat upstream, its rate and its time, and the distance of the boat downstream with that rate and that corresponding time as well. We want to find the speed of the boat in still water. So, let's make that be our variable. X is going to be the speed of our boat and in miles per hour. So now that we have a variable what expression can you write for the rate, or the speed of the boat, moving upstream, and the speed of the boat moving downstream. Moving upstream, the boat would go at x minus 5 miles per hour, and moving downstream, the boat would travel at x plus 5 miles per hour. Great thinking for finding these two. Now, this one was pretty tough, so don't worry if you didn't get it right. The key lies in the speed of the current. We know the speed is five miles per hour. So, if the boat travels at x miles per hour, then with the current, it can go five miles per hour faster, that would be moving downstream. But against the current, we know the boat travels slower, so it would lose the five miles per hour, since it's working against the current. So, now that we have expressions for the boat's rate upstream and the boat's rate downstream. I want you to fill in this other missing information. Keep in mind that these 2 should be an expression. They should involve the distance and the rate. You take the boat upstream for 10 miles, so we know this should be 10 and then when you travel back downstream, you go 15 miles. So, this box should be 15. Now to find the time of the boat, to travel 10 miles, upstream, we simply take the distance and divide it by it's rate. So, we'll have 10 divided by x minus 5. For downstream, we'll use the same concept for time. We'll take its distance divided by its rate. So we'll have 15 divided by x plus 5. Now we have all of our information and we want to try and set up an equation in order to try solve. Now that you have all the information about your boat moving upstream and downstream. I want you to write an equation that lets us solve for x. Take some time to think about it, and when you think you have it, type it in here. When you drove the boat upstream and downstream, it took a total time of one hour. This means that if we add the time to go upstream to the time to go downstream, those should add to one. So, we'll add the time to go upstream to the time to go downstream, and that should equal 1. Great thinking if you found this piece of information which you led you here. So, now that we have an equation for x, I want you to solve for it. What's the speed of the boat in still water? The boat travels at 25 miles per hour, great algebra solving if you found that answer. We know the lowest common denominator for this equation would be x minus 5 times x plus 5. So, we multiply our equation through by the LCD. These binomials cancel with one another, leaving us with this equation. Here on the right hand side I recognize that this was the difference of squares pattern. So I just have x squared minus 25 a squared minus b squared. Next we distribute to get this equation. Now we just want to combine my terms. 10 x plus 15 x equals 25 x. And positive 50 minus 75 equals negative 25. Next we add 25 to both sides or just remove the negative 25 since it's balanced on each side of the equation. This leaves us with 25 x Eequal to x squared. We have a quadratic equation, so we want to move this term to the other side, with the positive x squared term. This allows us to set our equation, equal to 0. Now we're in a position to factor this quadratic. I've rewritten it here, and then I factored an x out of each of these terms. So I'll have x times x minus 25. Now we set each factor equal to 0, leaving us with x equals 0, or x equals 25. So there are actually two possible values for x, 25 or 0. But since the boat is actually moving, we know it can't be zero. Therefore, the boat must move at 25 miles per hour in still water. Let's see if we can apply our same strategies to this motion problem. In 4 hours Katrina can go 15 miles upriver and come back. The speed of the current of the river is five miles per hour. What is Katrina's speed? Just like from before, we're going to set up a table to list all the information we know, and write expressions for anything that might be missing. So, we're looking for Katrina's speed alone, that would be without the current. We know when she goes upriver or upstream, she goes 15 miles. So this distance is 15. She has to come back to her original starting point, so that means she has to go another 15 miles. To get back where she started. That would be her distance downstream. We know the speed of the current is 5 miles per hour, but we don't know Katrina's speed. It's x. So, if Katrina is travelling downstream, she travels faster. So that would be x which is our speed plus the current which is 5. If Katrina is traveling upstream she's fighting the current, so she's going slower. So that would be x minus 5. Whenever we work with these motion problems and a current. We'll always add or subtract the current to whatever speed our person or object is going. So in this case Katrina's speed was x. So we need to add the current for her downstream speed and subtract the current for her upstream speed. Now we're ready to find expressions for the time. We know the time is distance divided by rate. So going upstream we'll have 15 divided by x minus 5. And going down stream we'll have 15 divided by the quantity x plus 5. Now this was pretty tough, so if you got at least part of this right, great work. Notice that we weren't given the actual time for Katrina to travel upstream or the actual time for her to travel downstream. We just have expressions for each of these. But we do know something about the sum or the total amount of time she spends on the river. So I want you to think about what equation you can write in order to solve for x. When you think you've got it enter it here. This is the equation we can write. Again, the key here is the total amount it takes for Katrina to go upstream and downstream is 4 hours. So, if we add her time upstream to her time downstream, those should sum to 4. So now that we've set up our information and found an equation, we're ready to solve for x. What do you think is Katrina's speed? Katrina travels at 10 miles per hour. Great work if you found this number. We can start solving this equation by multiplying through by the LCD. The lowest common denominator in this case is x minus 5 times x plus 5, the product of these two denominators. When we multiply we'll get 15 times x plus 5 here plus 15 times x minus 5 here. Equal to 4 times x minus 5 times x plus 5. I multiplied these two binomials together since we have a minus b times a plus b. That's a squared minus b squared, our difference of squares pattern. Next we distribute the 15 here and here and we distribute the positive 4 to get this new equation. Combining like terms on the left side of the equation, we'll have 15x plus 15x which equals 30 x. The positive 75 and the negative 75 sum to 0. Next we want to try and factor this quadratic equation. So we'll need to move this 30x over to the right hand side in order to set the quadratic equal to 0. I'll list the 4x square term first then the negative 30x term and then negative 100. All of these terms are even, so we can divide our entire equation by two. Here we'll want to use factoring by grouping in order to factor this quadratic. We find factors of 2 times negative 50, which is negative 100 that sum to negative 15. Negative 20 and positive 5 multiply to give us negative 100 and they sum to negative 15. So we'll use these two numbers to rewrite negative 15x as negative 20x plus 5x. Then we just use factoring by grouping to get two factors of 2x plus 5 and x minus 10. We set each of these factors equal to 0 so x can equal 10, or x could equal negative 5 halves. We know x really represents Katrina's speed. So, we can't use the negative value. It's invalid. This is how we know Katrina travels at 10 miles per hour. Here's our third problem with motion. This time we have a speed boat that takes 6 hours to travel downstream when the current is 12 miles per hour. The return trip for the boat would be upstream and the boat's going to travel at its same speed. But against the current and that's going to take it 8 hours. Your challenge is to find the speed of the boat in still water. As always, we'll use a table to help us get started. So again here, we're looking for the speed of the boat. So we'll let that be x. See if you can fill in the missing information for our table. And this time there is something different with our time column. We're actually given the times to go upstream and downstream. This means that we'll have numbers here and expressions for distance here. See if you can figure this one out. It takes the boat 6 hours to go downstream so we know what this corresponding time must be 6. We know the speed of the boat going downstream is faster with a current so we'll have the speed of the boat, which is x. And then we'll add the current which is 12. The return trip for the boat is going to be 8 hours so for upstream or going against the current we'll have eight for the time. The speed of the boat against the current will be x minus 12. We'll have the speed of the boat which is x and then we'll have to subtract off the current speed which is 12. And here's what's different about this problem. We don't know the distances going upstream or downstream. We'll need expressions for each of these. The distance is equal to rate times time. So when going upstream the boat's distance would be x minus 12, the rate times 8, the time. And when going downstream we'll have the rate x plus 12 times the time which is 6. This is our complete table with all the information we need. And if we want we go ahead and simplify each of these expressions. When we distribute the eight, we'll have 8x minus 96 for the first one. And we distribute the six, we'll have 6x plus 72 here. Now that we have this information, I want you to think carefully about what equation you can write in order to solve for x. Think about what is true for this problem. Think about the distances, the rates, and the times. You'll be able to relate one of these things together based on the information in the problem. The key here is that our boat is going to make a return trip. The boat's going to start and travel downstream and then turn around and come right back upstream. We know that the distance that the boat travels downstream is the same as the distance for the boat to travel back upstream. This means that these expressions are these two numbers, must be equal. So we'll know 8x-96 equals 6x plus 72. This is our equation that we can use to solve. So now what I want you to do is use this equation and solve for x, the speed of the boat. Write your answer here. In order to solve for x, we'll subtract 6 x from both sides. Then we'll add 96 to both sides, and finally we'll divide by 2 to get x alone. So one x is equal to 84. Great solving if you found 84 miles per hour for the speed of the boat. Keep in mind that there are other questions that might be asked. For example, now that we know x, we can go back and find other values. We could find the speed of the boat against the current, the speed of the boat with the current, or the distance travelled. For this question, I just want you to tell me, what's the distance travelled in each direction. Type that answer in here. The boat travels 576 miles in either direction. Great work if you found this. We can find this answer by plugging in the value of x which is 84 and take each of these expressions. Either expression will give us the correct answer, so let's make sure. If we take the expression for distance for upstream and replace the value of x with 84, we see that the answer is 576. The same would be true for downstream. We replace x with 84 to get 504 plus 72 which equals 576. This should make sense that the distances are equal. The boat travel downstream first and then it went back the same distance to return. So, this supports our reasoning for how we solve the equation and we know the boat traveled 576 miles in each direction. Let's try working through 1 last problem with motion and a current. In this problem, a riverboat averages 12 miles per hours in still water. It takes the boat an hour and 4 minutes to go 6 miles upstream, and then come back. What I want you to do, is to find the speed of the current. Before we find the speed of the current, let's set up our information. I want you to fill in each of these parts of our table, and be sure to use the variable x for your expressions. Think carefully about which of these should be numbers, and which of these should be expressions. We know the boat travels upstream for 6 miles so here this is 6. The boat is going to travel the same distance to return back from where it started, so we know the downstream distance must also equal 6. We know the boat travels 12 miles per hour in still water. So that means with the current, we would add x going downstream and that means going against the current. We would subtract x, that would be moving upstream. The key idea is that for the boat's rate, we let the speed of the current equal x. So the boat would be traveling faster going downstream, and slower going upstream. And finally, for our time column, we know that we just need to take the distance, and divide it by the rate. So, going upstream, the boat would take 6 divided by 12 minus x hours. And going downstream, the boat would take 6 divided by 12 plus x hours. Fantastic work if you've done all these expressions, this is pretty tricky. If we add these two times together we know they should sum to the total amount of time it takes our boat to travel 12 miles. The boat can make the trip in 1 hour and 4 minutes. But here's our problem, this is in hours and minutes and these units are in only hours so we can't quite set up an equation just yet. We need to convert this to only units of hours. So if we want to convert this to hours, what improper fraction could we write? Well, we know 1 hour and 4 minutes would be hour and 4 60ths of an hour. 4 minutes is just 4 60ths of an hour, since an hour can be broken up into 60 minutes. 4 60ths simplifies to 1 15th, since there's a common factor of four and the numerator and in the denominator. And then finally to add these two numbers together, we can change one to be 15 15th. This gives us a total sum of 16 15ths hours. So now we know one hour and four minutes really equals 16 15ths hours. So, now our total time is in only the units of hours. Knowing this, what equation can we write to solve for x? The equation needs to involve the time going upstream, the time going downstream, and the total amount of time. this is the equation that we can write. If we add the amount of time to go upstream, the amount of time to go downstream. That should sum to our total time which is 16 15th hours. Nice work if you figured that out. So now that we have an equation. I want you to solve for the speed of the current. Solve for x. The current travels at 3 miles per hour. Excellent problem solving if you found that answer. To solve this equation, we'll start by multiplying through by the lowest common denominator. The LCD in this case is 12 minus x times 12 plus x times 15. The product of all three of the denominators. So we'll multiply each of these terms by the LCD. We'll note the factors of 12 minus x simplified in the first fraction. 12 plus x simplifies in the second fraction. And 15 simplifies in our last fraction. Each of these reduces to 1. This leaves us with this equation. We know 6 times 15 equals 90, so we'll change these. And then we know this is a difference of square pattern. a minus b times a plus b. So this will equal a squared minus b squared. 12 squared is 144. We'll have our minus sign in between the terms, and x squared is x squared. Next we'll distribute 90 to each of these terms. We'll distribute 90 here, and we'll distribute positive 16 here. We get this equation, and then we want to combine the like terms on the left. We know positive 90x, and negative 90x sum to 0. And 1080 plus 1080 sums to 2160. And the right hand side of our equation remains the same. Now that we have this equation, we want to try and solve for x. Since I only have an x squared term and no other x terms, I want to move this constant to the left hand side, and then divide through by negative 16. So we can take the square root of both sides. We subtract 2,304 from both sides to get negative 144 equals negative 16 x squared. Then we divide both sides by negative 16 to get 9 is equal to x squared. We take the square root of both sides so x can equal positive 3 or negative 3. Since x is the speed of the current, we know that we need the positive value. x must equal 3 miles per hour. In the last two lessons, we focused on motion problems that involve rates. The rates were miles per hour, which is how fact an object was traveling. In this lesson, we're going to focus on a different kind of rate involving work. If it takes you two hours to complete a homework assignment, what fraction of the assignment can you complete in one hour? In this case, we're talking about the rate, about how fast you can work on an assignment. When you think you know the answer, enter that fraction here. It turns out you can do one half of the job in one hour's time. We can get one half by drawing a diagram to help us out. We know that it takes two hours for us to do the entire assignment. So, if two hours passes, then we've finished our complete assignment; both of these bars would be full. So, what we can do is we can take our entire two hours and split it up into one hour increments. Each of these would represent one hour. And each of these on the corresponding side would represent the amount of work for the fraction being done in that hour. So if we split our time in half we could split our assignment in half. We'll know that we'll finish half the assignment in one hour. And then the other half in the next hour. So this is how we know that in one hour we only finish half of the assignment. Great work if you got that fraction. So, we know you can complete half of the assignment in one hour. Well, you learn that Anthony, another student, can complete the same assignment in three hours. If that's true, what fraction of the work can he complete in one hour? Write that answer here. Anthony can complete 1 3rd of the assignment in 1 hour's time. Great job if you found this fraction. For Anthony we know it takes him 3 hours time to complete one assignment. So let's take his 3 hours and break it up into three equally spaced intervals. So in 1 hour, Anthony can complete 1 3rd of his job. And the 2nd hour, he completes another 3rd of his job bringing the total up to 2 3rds. And the last hour, Anthony finishes his job, which would be 1 or 3 3rds. This is how we know is Anthony only is allowed to work for 1 hour, he completes a 3rd of the job in that hour assuming he's working at the same rate the entire time. But who's to say that you always have to work alone? What if you guys solved the problems together? The amount of work you do in 1 hour plus the amount of work Anthony does in 1 hour, would equal the total fraction of work you both can do in 1 hour. In other words, we knew that you could complete half of the job in 1 hour. And Anthony can complete a third of the job in 1 hour. So if we add these 2 fractions together, this would be the total sum of the fraction of the job that you both could do in 1 hour's time. Notice that the denominator here represents the time that it took for you do the entire job. And for Anthony, the 3 represents the amount of time it took for him to do the entire job. This means that x represents the total number of hours for you and Anthony to do that job together. So working together, how long would it actually take you and Anthony to complete the assignment together? Write the number of hours it would take them to complete the work together here. And then convert that answer to the number of minutes it would take them to complete the work here. Keep in mind I don't want you to write your answer as hours and minutes. I want you to write the fraction or the number of hours here and then convert that fraction to the toal number of minutes here. It would take them one and one fifth of an hour or six fifth hours to complete that work together. And converting that to minutes, it would take them 72 minutes total time to complete the work or one hour and 12 minutes. Great work if you found these two numbers. We want to take our equation and solve for x. We know that this fraction represents the amount of work that they both can complete in one hours time. So x represents the amount of time it takes for them to do all of that work, or to complete the entire job. So we can solve this equation by multiplying through by the LCD, which is 6x. We simply multiply these denominators together, since the greatest common factor among them is one. We simplify this to 3x, this to 2x, and this fraction to the 6. We add like terms on the left to get 5x equals 6, and finally we divide both sides by 5 to get x equals 6 5th hours. We know 6 5th's hours is the same thing as 1 hour and 1 5th of an hour. And digging all the way back to fractions in our clock, we know 1 fifth of an hour is really 12 minutes. Now, if you didn't know this off the top of your head, you could have simply divided 60 minutes, which is 1 hour, by 5 to get 12 minutes. We know an hour is 60 minutes. So, all together, this would make 72 minutes of time. So this is how we know that the 2 of you can solve all of the problems in 72 minutes or 6 5ths hours. In general if you have a person or thing that can do a job in a hours then 1 over a represents the amount of work done by that person or thing in one hour time. If you have a second person or thing that takes b hours to do that same job, then 1 divided by b represents the total amount of work done. By that thing in one hour. So if it takes them x hours to do the job together, then 1 over x is how much they have done together in that one hour. This would be the fraction of the job completed. Again, this x is the number that represents the total time it takes for the job to be completed by two people or objects working together. Let's see if we can use our concept of working together to solve this problem. Vanessa and Tim want to repaint a room. Tim's painted the room alone before, and done it in 4 hours. While Vanessa's painted the room alone, and done it in 3 hours. If they're working together, how long would it take them to paint the room? Try setting up an equation, and then solve and write your final answer here. Working together, they can paint the room in 12 7ths hours time. Great thinking if you found this fraction. 12 7ths is equal to 1 hour and 5 7ths of an hour. If we do some conversion and convert this to minutes, it's about one hour and 43 minutes. And here's the equation we want to set up. We know that Tim can paint the room in 4 hours time. So he can complete one job in 4 hours. The other way of thinking about this is that he will complete 1 4th of the job in 1 hour. Vanessa's painted the room in 3 hours. Which means she can complete the full job in 3 hours time, job per hours. So, notice that we can think about this as a rate. We have Tim completing 1 job in 4 hours and Vanessa completing that same job in 3 hours. So if we add their two rates together, we would get them completing the job in x hours time, the time you want to find. And now here's the other way we were thinking about it. Tim can complete 1 4th of the job in 1 hours time. Vanessa can complete 1 3rd of the job in 1 hours time. So together they can complete 1 over x of the job in 1 hour's time. We start solving this equation by multiplying though by the LCD. The least common denominator is 4 times 3 times x. Or 12 x. We multiply each fraction by this number, and that gives us 3 x here, 4 x here, and 12 here. We add our like terms on the left to get 7 x equals 12. And finally we divide by 7 to get 1 x is equal to 12 7ths. This is the amount of time it takes them to paint the room together. Let's try another problem Lucy and Javier can mow their lawn in 1.2 hours time if they work together. If it takes Javier one hour longer than Lucy, how long would it take them to mow the yard alone? Now, we want to use our same approach from before. We're going to use our 1 over a plus 1 over b equals 1 over x. Where x is the total amount of time it takes them to do a job together. We know that total time is 1.2 hours. So we can replace x with 1.2. Now we don't know how long it took Javier or how long it took Lucy. Those are both unknowns. So what do you think we could write here and here, in order to finish out our equation? You'll need to think about how Lucy's time to mow the yard and how Javier's time to mow the yard alone relate to one another. When you think you know what should go in this denominator, and what should go in this denominator, type them in here. As a hint, you'll have to use a variable, and for this one I want you to use the variable t. The key to finishing this equation is that it takes Javier one hour longer than Lucy. So let's let Lucy's time equal t. We'll use that for our first fraction. This fraction would represent one job completed in t hours. This means that Javier can do the same job in t plus 1 hours. So his fraction would be one job divided by t plus 1 hours. His time is simply 1 hour more than Lucy's. So t plus 1. Now that we have an equation to work with, let's try and solve for t. Once you solve for t, tell me what Lucy's time would be, and what Javier's time would be to mow the lawn alone. It would take Lucy 2 hours, and Javier 3 hours. Great thinking if you found these numbers. We want to keep in mind that t represents the number of hours it takes for Lucy to mow the yard alone. So when we solve for t in this equation, we'll find Lucy's time. To begin solving this equation, we want to multiply through by the LCD, which is 1 and 2 10ths times t times t plus 1. It's the product of these 3 denominators since they're all different and the greatest common factor is 1. When we multiply through by the LCD, we'll see that the factors cancel. The t's will cancel. The quantity t plus 1 will reduce to 1. And then number 1.2 or 1 and 2 10ths reduces to 1 as well. This leaves us with 1 and 2 10ths times t plus 1 here. 1 and 2 10th here and the quantity, t plus 1 times t here. We'll distribute the 1 and 2 10th and the t to the terms to get this equation. Then we'll combine the like terms on the left hand side to get 2 and 4 10th times t, plus 1 and 2 10th equals t squared plus 2. To get rid of these decimals, we'll multiply through by 10. So we'll have 24t plus 12 equals 10t squared plus 10t. Now we have a quadratic equation that we can try and factor. We want to move all of these terms to the right hand side and then see if we can factor. So, subtracting 24t and 12, we'll get 10t squared, minus 14t, minus 12 on the right hand side of our equation. And we'll get 0 on the left. I notice that all of these terms are even. So I can divide my entire equation by 2. 0 divided by 2 is 0. And then I divide each of these terms by 2. From this quadratic equation, we use factoring by grouping to get the factors of 5t plus 3, and t minus 2. We set each of these factors equal to zero and then we solve for the values of t. We find that t can equal positive 2, or t can equal negative 3 5ths. We know that t represents the time for Lucy to mow the yard so we don't want to use this negative value, it wouldn't make sense here. Instead, we'll use t equals 2. So, she takes 2 hours to mow the yard. If we remember, Javier's time was t plus 1, he took an hour longer than Lucy, so this would mean he would mow the yard in 3 hours. We just needed to add 1 on to Lucy's time. Let's try a third problem on working together. It takes Melissa 2 hours longer to edit a short film than it takes Carlos, who is a professional editor. If it takes them 2 and 4 10th hours to edit a short film as a team. How long would it take them to do it alone? Now, before we saw for each person's time to edit the film alone, let's find an equation. Enter the equation in here and you want to make sure that you use x as your variable. Good luck. We'll start with our general case. We'll have one person completing one job in a hours and another person completing that same job in b hours. This means that their total time together would be x hours. And 1 over x would be the fraction of the job done together in one hour. We know x in this case would be 2 and 4 10ths hours. Since this is the total amount of time it takes them to edit the film together. Now, we need expressions for these two. If we let x equal the time it takes Carlos to edit, we can use x in one of the denominators. We know Melissa takes two hours longer than Carlos, so we can just add two to x to get x plus 2 for Melissa's time. Great thinking if you found this equation. I know it's not easy. Now that we have an equation, I want you to solve for x, and then tell me what's Melissa's time to edit the film, and what is Carlos' time. Write them here. Melissa would need six hours to edit the film and Carlos would only need four hours. Great thinking if you found these two answers. We'll start solving this equation by multiplying through by the LCD two and 4 tenths times x times x plus 2. The product of these three denominators. When we multiply through by the LCD, we can simplify each of the terms. The first term reduces to two and four tenths times x plus two. The second term reduces to two and four tenths times x And the last term simply reduces to x times x plus 2. We distribute 2 and 4 10ths to get these two terms, and we distribute x to get these two terms. Next we combine 2 and 4 10ths x, and 2 and 4 10ths x to get 4 and 8 10ths times x. Now to clear these decimals, I'm going to go ahead and multiply through by a factor of 10. When we multiply through by 10, we'll get 48x48 8, 10x squared, and 20x. Now we're ready to move these two terms, to the right hand side of our equation, so we can get 0 on the left side, and a quadratic expression on the right hand side. Now, we're ready to divide this equation by 2 since all these coefficients are even. When we divide each of these terms by 2, we'll get this new equation. Now we can factor. When we use factoring by grouping, we get the factors 5x plus 6 and x minus 4. We set each factor equal to 0 and then we can solve for the values of X. X can equal positive 4 or X can equal negative 6 fifths. We know X to the amount of time it takes for Carlos to edit the film. So, it would take him 4 hours we don't use this choice since it's negative. That wouldn't make sense with our concept of time. So, since it takes Carlos 4 hours, it must take Melissa 6 hours. We know this is true since x was 4, which is the amount of time it takes Carlos. And Melissa was X plus 2, two more hours than Carlos. If you are ever unsure, go back to the original problem. We knew Carlos time was represented by X, so he would take four hours to edit the film. Melissa takes two hours longer than Carlos so that means that she needs six hours in order to edit the film. I know this one was tough, so great work if you got it right. Here's our fourth problem on working together. It takes Jamal and Danielle 4 hours to carpet a room together. If each of them worked alone, one could complete the work in 6 hours less time than the other. How long would it take the faster one to do the job? Before we get started to solve, let's see if you can set up the correct equation. Write your equation here and be sure to use x for the variable. Good luck. Here's the equation we want to solve. Great work if you found this one. I know this one was tough. The key idea to get started is to assign the variable. I think it's best to let x equal the time it takes for the slower person. If we let x equal the number of hours it takes the slower person to carpet the room, then we can use 1 over x for the first fraction. This would be one job completed in x hours. The faster person works in 6 hours less time. So this means the second person could complete that same job, one job in x minus 6 hours. Now we don't know who's faster Jamal or Danielle, we just know that the faster person does in in x minus 6 hours and the slower person does it in x hours. If we add the slower person's rate to the faster person's rate, we'll get 1 4th. One job completed in 4 hours. This is the amount it takes Jamal and Danielle to carpet the room together. Now that we have an equation to solve, I want you to figure out the time it takes for the slower person, and the time it takes for the faster person. Keep in mind that the slower person would be x and the faster person would be x minus 6. Good luck. Now we don't know who the faster or the slower person is. But we know the slower person takes 12 hours, and the faster person takes only 6 hours. Great algebra skills for getting that one correct. We'll start solving this equation by multiplying through by the lowest common denominator. Which is 4x times x minus 6, the product of these denominators. If we multiply through by the LCD, we'll find that he x cancels in the first term, the x minus 6 cancels in the second term. And then, on the right hand side of the equation, the 4s' simplify to 1. This leaves us with 4 times x minus 6, here. 4x for a second term and an x times x minus 6 on the right hand side. Next, we'll distribute this positive 4 and this x to get our next equation. We'll combine the 4x on the left and the right, to get 8x minus 24 equals x squared minus 6x. Now we're almost to a quadratic expression that we can factor. We just need to subtract 8x and add 24 to both sides of the equation. This gives us 0 on the left side, x squared minus 14x, plus 24 on the right side. Now we want to find factors of positive 24 that sum to negative 14. Those factors are negative 2, and negative 12. We set each of these factors equal to 0, and then we solve for x. So, we find the values of x equals 2 or x equals 12. And this might be confusing. Which answer should we take? Before we've always had at least one of the answers be negative. So we could eliminate it since a negative time didn't make sense. The key is that one person is 6 hours slower than the other. So if someone was 6 hours slower than someone who could work 2 hours, we'd wind up with a negative time. So this one would be out. This means that the slower person must take 12 hours, and the faster person could do it in 6. When working together, we use the general formula 1 over a plus 1 over b equals 1 over x. This is one job completed in a hours plus one job completed in b hours equals 1 divided by x. The total time it takes for two things, or people to complete that job together. But not everything has to work together. Sometimes things can work against each other. So, what new equation do you think we could write here and use to help us problem solve? Well if something is working against another thing, we want to subtract its rate from the original. So we'll have 1 over a minus 1 over b equals 1 over x. Good thinking if you found this equation. Let's see if we can use this equation to help us solve a different type of problem. Our problem solving method will still be the same. We'll just want to use a minus sign instead of a plus sign. For this last problem we'll solve it using this general equation. Here, we'll have a pool that has a pipe system that can fill it with water. An inlet pipe can fill the pool in 10 hours time. While an outlet pipe can drain it in 12 hours. If both pipes are left often by mistake. How long would it take the pool to fill? Think carefully about where each of these numbers should go in your equation, and then solve for the number of hours. It would take 60 hours or about two and a half days for the pool to fill. Great work if you found this. This is the equation that we'll use to help us solve. We can fill the pool in 10 hours, and we can drain one pool in 12 hours. We know that when you subtract the 1 12th here since it takes longer to drain the pool than it does to fill it. In other words this rate is it slower than this rate? And this should make sense, since we know 1 12th is smaller than 1 10th. So, the pool will fill up ever so slightly, and we can figure out the total time that it takes to fill the pool, this is x. We start solving this equation by multiplying through by the LCD 60x. The common factors of 10 and 12 are 2. The other factor of 10 is 5, and the other factor of 12 is 6. We multiply these factors together, which give us 60, and then we have to multiply by x, the other factor in our denominators. We multiply by x since x is not a common factor of 10 or 12. So 60x will be our LCD. This first term will reduce to 6x, since 60 divided by 10 equals 6. The second term will reduce to 5x, since 60 divided by 12 equals 5. This leaves us with the right hand side of just 60. Combining our like terms on the left, we'll have 1 x equals 60, so x equals 60 hours. The time it takes to fill the pool with the drain open. If you made it this far in the course, congratulations, you should really be proud of all your hard work. You've encountered so much algebra, and my hope is that you've learned a lot along the way. We have just two more units left, and I hope you'll stay with us to complete the course. In this unit we'll learn about the Pythagorean theorem and it's applications. Then we'll move on to see the different ways that we can slice a cone. Now these cones will produce some intereting patterns. And I can't wait for you to see them. For now let's look closely at a special right triangle. You may have heard about special right triangles before. They're special, because they have a 90 degree angle for one of their angles. We're going to take a closer look at this one. It's a 3, 4, 5 right triangle. We call it that, since the ratio of the legs is 3 to 4 and the hypotenuse is 5. The legs are just the sides of the triangle that form the right angle. And the hypotenuse is the side that is directly across from the 90 degree angle. Not only is the hypotenuse across from the 90 degree angle, it's also the longest side of the entire triangle. We're going to look at an interesting relationship between the legs of the triangle and the hypotenuse. I'm going to shrink the triangle, and then I'm going to draw boxes off of each of the legs and the hypotenuse. These boxes are actually squares, so this square has side lengths of three, this square has side lengths of four, and this square has side lengths of five. What I want you to do is to tell me the area of each of these squares. You can type those numbers here. This square has an area of 9 units squared. This one has an area of 16 units squared. And this one has an area of 25 units squared. Great work for finding these numbers. To find the area of any square, we simply square its side. So we know 3 squared equals 9. For this square, we'll have 4 times 4, which equals 16. And finally, for our last square, well have 5 times 5, or 5 squared which is 25. So, we know if we square 3 we'll get 9, and if we square 4, we'll get 16, and if we square 5, we'll get 25. But what's even more amazing if we add these two together we get 25. It turns out that the area of the squares of the legs of the triangle sum to the the area of the square of the hypotenuse. Pretty amazing. It turns out that this relationship is true for any right triangle. So, lets take our triangle and give it unknown lengths. This side will be a, this side will be b and this hypotenuse will be c. What equation could you write to relate the variables a, b, and c? When you think you have that equation, type it in here. Well, if we square a, and if we square b, and add those two together, we'll get c squared. So a squared, the area of this square, plus b squared, the area of this squared, equals c squared, the area of our largest square. Now that's great thinking if you found this equation. So when examining the 3-4-5 triangle, we saw the relationship of a squared plus b squared equals c squared. We'll square each of the legs of the triangles and then add the sum together to get the square of the hypotenuse. Here's another visual of what's going on. We'll have b squared which is 16, a squared which is 9 and c squared which is 25. So we said this works for any right triangle. We can square the leg, square another leg, and add those together to get the hypotenuse squared. But, why does this work? Well, let's see this by starting off with a square. Here's one large square, and then this small square has a side length of a, and this larger square has a side length of b. So, we know that the area of this square is a squared. And the area of this square is b squared. And now, what I'm going to do is break this white space up into four congruent rectangles. If this length is a, then we know that this length is also a. And we know if this length is b, then this length is also b. If our entire shape is a square, then we know that if this side is a plus b, then this side must also be a plus b. That's how we know that this side length is b. We can use the same reasoning to say that this side length here, is a. Since we know the entire side must be a plus b. So, notice that all four of these triangles are identical. They all have a leg of a, a leg of b, and a hypotenuse of c. The four triangles are just oriented in different ways. Like for this one, here's a, here's b, and here's they hypotenuse across the 90 degree angle c. So now what we're going to do is take this triangle and fix it at this point. We're going to rotate the triangle around this point. We're also going to take this triangle here and fix it at this point. So we can rotate the triangle around this point. So let's move these two triangles to a different position. We're going to swing this triangle up, around this point, and we're going to swing this triangle down, around this point. When we rearrange the triangles, we get this new arrangement. Notice that I have the same four triangles, with legs a and b, and a hypotenuse of c, and the area inside here is c squared. So, what do we know must be true about this area and this new area? Take some time to think and then fill in the missing statements to this sentence. Choose one of these statements to make this sentence true. And then, check any of these boxes that provide the correct reasoning. We know the new area c squared, is equal to the old area, a squared plus b squared. This of course Pythagoras' theorem, but the reason why it worked in that proof was because the areas of the 4 triangles did not change. In other words the light blue area that we had for a squared plus b squared, was the same after we rotated the triangle. After we rotate the 4 orange triangles the light blue square is still the same area. It's just need recombined to form c squared the new area. So, we know we can use the Pythagorean theorem for any right triangle. Any triangle that has a 90 degree angle, we can square the legs and then add them together to find the square of the hypotenuse. So, lets use the Pythagorean theorem to problem solve. What do you think would be the link of this hypotenuse? Write your answer here. This hypotenuse here would be 40 units in length. Great job if you've found this number. Remember, these are the legs of the triangle, since they form the 90 degree angle. The side across from the 90 degree angle, this side is called the hypoteneuse. We don't know the length of the hypoteneuse, so we'll call it x. We'll start with our Pathagorean Theorem and we'll plug in the numbers for the legs here and then hypotenuse here. So, we'll have 32 squared plus 24 squared equals x squared. We'll square each of these numbers and then we'll have these two added together equals x squared. This gives us 1600 equals x squared. Now we want to take the square root of both sides of the equation to solve for x. When we take the square root, we'll need to include the plus or minus symbol. But, in this case, since the distance is positive, we can disregard the negative root. We only want the positive root. This gives us x equals 40, or 40 units in length. Now, there's another way to solve this problem. And it involves a 3, 4, 5 right triangle. This is one of our special triangles. For our special right triangle, the side links are the ratio of 3 to 4 to 5. It turns out the side lengths of this triangle are in the same exact ratio. We know that the legs are 24 and 32. So, I'm going to put those here. If we multiply this leg by eight, we would end up with 24. And if we multiply this leg by eight, we would wind up with 32. So, we can see that eight would be the multiplier for this ratio. So, to get the side length of a hypotenuse of this triangle we would just need to multiple 5 by 8. This is another way without using the Pythagorean Theorem that we can find this hypotenuse. There are some special right triangles that can help us problem solve even more quickly than using the Pythagorean Theorem. If you were able to solve the last problem without using the Pythagorean Theorem, then great work. If you didn't, I would go back and check that solution, see how we can do it. For the last problem, we could actually use this special ratio 3 to 4 to 5 to find a missing side length. If the side lengths are on the ratio of 3 to 4 to 5, then any multiple of that would also be a right triangle. So, if I multiplied each of these by 2, I could also have a 6, 8, 10 right triangle. We know this is a right triangle since 6 squared is 36, 8 squared is 64, and 10 squared is 100. A squared plus b squared equals c squared. So multiplying through by any number for this ratio would give us a right triangle. We could multiply through by 3 to get a different right triangle. In fact, that triangle would be a 9-12-15 right triangle. So by knowing a special right triangle, we can generate an infinite amount of larger right triangles. That's why this ratio is so important. In fact, it's called a Pythagorean Triple. There are a couple of Pythagorean Triples that appear often enough that it's helpful to know these. If you're able to quickly recognize these, then you can easily find missing side links. For example if we had this right triangle that had a leg of 35. And a hypotenuse of 125 units. What would be this missing leg? Now you could use a pythagorean theorem to solve for this missing leg. But I really want you to think about this in terms of ratios. Which of these ratios can help you find this missing leg. Choose the one that you think it corresponds to and then fill in the missing number based on the multiplier. Good luck. This triangle has it's sides in a ratio of 7 to 24 to 25. Great thinking if you chose that ratio. We know that sense if we multiply this leg by 5 we would get 35. And if we multiply the hypotenuse of 25 by 5, we would get a hypotenuse of 125. This means that 5 is the multiplier for our ratio, so to find the missing leg, we simply simplify multiply 24 by 5. This gives us a side length of 120 units. Now not every right triangle will have a special ratio. For example this right triangle will not be in the ratio of the Pythagorean triples that we've seen before. But using Pythagorean Theorem, I know you can find this missing side length, what is it. This hypotenuse is the square root of 241. This square root would be about 15 and a half. Great thinking if you got this exact answer. For this problem, we know the legs are 4 and 15, and the hypotenuse is x. It's unknown, since we don't know it. So we'll have 4 squared plus 15 squared equals x squared. We'll square 4 to get 16 and we'll square 15 to get 225. Adding these two together, we'll get 241 equals X squared. We'll take the square root of both sides, keeping only the positive root, since this is a distance; which gives us x equals the square root of 241. Again, great work, if you got this correct. Here's another problem using the Pythagorean Theorem. See if you can find this missing side length. Also be sure that you give the exact answer. I don't want you to give an approximation that has a decimal point. This side lenght is 3 times the square root of 39. Great problem solving for getting that one right. Now 7, 24, 25 is a special right triangle that we could use. But since this hypotenuse isn't 25, we won't use that. Instead, we'll just need to use the Pythagorean Theorem. A squared plus b squared equals c squared. In this case, 7 is the leg, 20 is the hypotenuse, since it's across from the right angle, and x is the unknown leg we're trying to find. So, we'll have 7 squared plus x squared equals 20 squared. Squaring 7, we get 49 and squaring 20, we'll get 400. Next, we'll subtract 49 from both sides to get 1x squared equals 351. We take the square root of both sides keeping only the positive root. So, x is equal to the square root of 351. We can simplify this square root by breaking it into 3 times 117. Then, we break it down one more time, to get 3 times 3 times 39. We have a repeated factor of 3. So, a 3 comes outside of our square root, and 39 stays inside. This gives us our final answer of 3 times the square root of 39. Here's a more challenging problem with the Pythagorean Theorem. This time, you have a right triangle whose hypotenuse is 5 inches longer than its longer leg. If the shorter leg is 5 inches shorter than the longer leg, what are the side lengths of the triangle? Before you solve for each of the sides of the triangle, I want you to try and use the information in the problem to come up with expressions for each of these. So you want to write an expression for the hypotenuse the shorter leg and the longer leg. Be sure you use the variable x when you write the expressions. You'll need to think carefully about how each of these is related to one another. Good luck here. When writing the expressions, it's best to use x for the longer leg. We know that since the hypotenuse is 5 inches longer than the longer leg and the shorter leg is 5 inches shorter than that longer leg. The longer leg is the connecting thread that links the relationships of the sides together. So, if we let X equal the longer leg, then the hypotenuse will be 5 units longer or x plus 5 and the shorter leg will be x minus 5. 5 units less than the longer leg. Great thinking if you found these 3 expressions this one was challenging. Now that we have expressions for the sides of the triangle. Let's use the Pythagorean theorem to solve for x so we can find each of those sides. When you have each of the sides, enter them here. The hypotenuse is 25, the longer leg is 20, and the shorter leg is 15 units. Great work for finding those three numbers. For a squared we'll have x minus 5 squared, for b squared we'll have x squared and for c squared we'll have the quantity x plus 5 squared. Keep in mind a and b are the legs, and c is our hypotenuse. Now we have one equation with one variable, which means we can solve. Squaring the quantity x minus 5, we get x squared minus 10x plus 25, and squaring the quantity x plus 5 squared, we get x squared plus 10x plus 25. This x squared just comes straight down here. Next, we'll add like terms on the left hand side of our equation to get 2x squared minus 10x plus 25. The right hand side of our equation stays the same. And since we have a quadratic equation, we want to move all of these terms to the left hand side so that we can get a quadratic expression set equal to 0. We move each of these terms to the other side of the equation by subtracting the appropriate amount. We'll subtract x squared, subtract 10x, and subtract 25 from both sides of the equation. We do this so that with the x squared term remains positive, and then we can factor. This leaves us with x squared minus 20x equals 0. We can factor an x from these two terms since it is the greatest common factor. So, of x times the quantity x minus 20. We set each factor equal to 0. And then we solve for x. X can equal 0 or x can equal positive 20. Since we know we're talking about the side length the longer leg must be 20. The 0 doesn't make sense in this case. So our longer leg will be 20, our hypotenuse will be 5 more which is 25. And our shorter leg will be five less which is 15. Here's a different type of problem that we can solve using the Pythagorean Theorem. A rectangle is three inches longer than it is wide. If the diagonal of the rectangle is 15 inches long, what are the rectangle's length and width? Try labeling this diagram with the appropriate expressions and then see if you can solve for the length and the width. When you're entering in the length, the length will be the longer side or the longer dimension. And the width will be the shorter one. Good luck here. The length of the rectangle is 12 units long and the width is 9 units. Great work if you found these two numbers. The key to this problem is that the diagonal is 15 inches long. The diagonal rectangle cuts from one corner to an opposite corner. So, we can draw in this line and consider this to be one of the diagonals. This line would be the other diagonal. But we only need 1 triangle in order to figure out the side links of our rectangle. We know the diagonal is 15 inches long so we can label this with 15. We'll let the width of the rectangle be x. Since we know the length is 3 inches longer than the width. This means that the length must be x plus 3. Here again is another. We're using algebra to relate two things. We have one unknown which is the width, and relating to the length. Since the length is three inches longer than the width. Now we have a right triangle and we're ready to use the pythagoreum theorem to solve for x. Whole squared e to the legs which is this side and this side and we know if we sum those squares together we'll get the squared hypotenuse or 15 squared. We'll combine these like terms together to get 2x squared plus 6x plus 9 equals 225. Next we'll subtract 225 from those sides so I have this quadratic expression said equal to 0. These terms are all even, so we can divide our equation through by 2. This gives us x squared plus 3 x minus 108 equals 0. We find factors of negative 108 that sum to positive 3. Those factors are negative 9 and positive 12. So, we can write these two factors and then set each one equal to 0 to solve for x. So, X can equal positive nine, or X can equal negative 12. A negative side length wouldn't make sense in this case, so we'll let X equal 9 here. So, if the width is 9, then we know that the length must be 3 more than the width, or, this would be 12 units. Again, great algebra thinking if you got these two numbers. Here's another challenging problem that uses the Pythagorean theorem. This time we'll have a ladder that 17 feet long, that leans against a building. The distance from the bottom of the ladder to the building is 7 feet less than the distance from the top of the ladder to the ground. What you need to find is the distance from the top of the ladder to the base of the building. Now, we'll walk through this problem just like one before. First, I want you to tell me what are the expressions for each of these sides? Try to label the parts of the diagram that you know, and then when you think that you have numbers or expressions for each of these. Enter them in the corresponding box. If you use a variable, make sure that you use the variable x. Good luck here. Well, we know the ladder is 17 feet long. So we'll have 17 for this distance of the ladder. We know that the distance from the bottom of the ladder to the house or the building is 7 feet less, than the distance from the top of the ladder to the ground. So we know that this distance is 7 units less than this distance. Since we don't know this distance, we can use the variable x. And then we can write the expression x minus 7 for the distance from the base of the ladder to the base of the building. This is how we get this number and these two expressions. Great work if you found all 3. Now that we've set up a right triangle, I want you to find the distance from the top of the ladder to the base of the building. Solve for X. When we use the Pythagorean theorem to solve, we'll find that this distance, from the top of the ladder to the base of the building, is 15 feet. Great solving if you found it. But when you use the Pythagorean Theorem, we'll have x squared plus x minus 7 squared equals 17 squared. We'll square these legs and take the sum of the squares to get the square of the hypotenuse. Squaring these expressions, we get this equation. We'll add the like terms together here to get 2x squared minus 14x plus 49 equals 289. Then, we'll subtract 289 from both sides to get our quadratic expression set equal to 0. Each of these terms is divisible by 2, so we can divide our equation by 2. We take our quadratic expression, and we factor it by finding the factors of negative 120 that sum to negative 7. Those factors are negative 15 and positive 8. We set each of these factors equal to 0, and then we solve for values of x. So x can equal positive 15 or x can equal negative 8. We know that the distance cannot be negative 8 feet, since distance is always positive. So instead, x is going to equal 15 feet. This is the distance from the top of the ladder to the base of the building. Now let's see if you can use the Pythagorean theorem to solve some practice problems on your own. First try to find the length of a hypotenuse of a right triangle with side lengths 18 inches and 24 inches. When you think you have the answer, type it in here. Here, the hypotenuse is 30 inches. Great work if you found this number. We'll start with a right triangle, with side lengths 18 inches and 24 inches. We'll use x for the length of the hypotenuse since that's what we're finding. Now we just plug into the Pythagorean theorem, squaring the legs, and squaring our unknown hypotenuse length. When we square 18, we get 324. And when we square 24, we get 576. The sum of these equals 900. And no we can take the square root of both sides to solve for x. Here, we'll keep the positive root only, since we're talking about distance. The length that this hypotenuse is 30 inches. This triangle is actually a special right triangle with side lengths in the ratio of 3 to 4 to 5. So, we can actually use this to help us solve for x without using the Pythagorean Theorem. If we multiply 3 by 6, we'll get 18. And if we multiple 4 by 6 we'll get 24. This means to find this unknown hypotneuse we multiple the hypotneuse by 5 by our same multipler 6. We multiple 5 times 6 we'll get 30. Now not every right triangle will be so special. In this case it was since these side lengths were in the ratio of 3 to 4 to 5. This is why we looked at those Pythagorean triples earlier. Sometimes they can help us problem solve more quickly. But either way we solve we'll still get a hypotenuse of 30. Let's see if you can solve the second problem. Here we'll have a right traingle with a side of 36 units and a hypotenuse of 45 units. I want you to find the missing side length. The missing side length is 27 units. Great work if you found that number. Again, we'll start with the right triangle and this time we'll have one side of 36 and a hypotenuse of 45. Remember the hypotenuse needs to be right directly across from the 90 degree angle. This means that this missing side link must be x. We'll square the legs and sum those together to get the square of the hypotenuse. So we'll have x squared plus 1,296 equals 2,025. We'll subtract 1,296 from both sides of the equation to get x squared equals 729. Now we can take the square root of both sides, keeping only the positive root, so x is equal to 27. The other way to solve this problem is to use the special triangle 3, 4, 5. If we were to multiply each of these numbers by 9, we would get 36 and we would get 45. This must mean that 9 has to be the multiplier for each of the side lengths. So to find this missing piece, we simply multiply 3 by 9 to get 27. Again, this is why it's helpful sometimes to know the pythagorean triples. If you know a couple of them it might make your problem solving easier. Here's our 3rd practice problem for the Pythagorean Theorem. I want you to try to find the side lengths of a triangle whose hypotenuse is 4x and who's legs are 3x plus 1 and 2x plus 2. When you think you've found the numbers for each of them, enter them here. The shorter leg is 12, the longer leg is 16, and the hypotenuse is 20. Great problem solving if you found those numbers. Our setup will be very similar to the problems before. We'll have the hypotenuse of 4x, and legs of 3x plus 1, and 2x plus 2. We square the first leg to get 9x squared, plus 6x plus 1. We square the second leg to get 4x squared plus 8x plus 4 and we square the hypotenuse to get 16x squared. Next we'll combine the like terms of x squared, the like terms for x and the constant terms to get this left hand expression. 13x squared plus 14x plus 5. Now we want to move all of these terms to the right hand side of the equation by subtracting them. We subtract each of these, so that way we can get an x squared term that's positive and we can get 0 on the left hand side. Next we'll use factoring by grouping, to get the factors of 3x plus 1, times x minus 5. We set this factor equal to 0. And we set this factor equal to 0. Solving for x, we'll have x can equal negative one third, or x can equal positive 5. Now, we won't let x equal negative one third since this side length will end up being negative four thirds. That wouldn't make sense. Instead, we'll let x equal 5, and we'll substitute it in for each of these expressions. This is how we get the shortest leg to be 12, the longer leg to be 16, and the hypoteneuse to be 20. Here's our fourth problem with the Pythagorean Theorem. See if you can solve it, and find each of the side legs for our right triangle. Think carefully as you set up the expressions, because this one's tough. Take your time, and be sure to check your answers in the end. Good luck. The shorter leg is 20 meters long, the longer leg is 21 meters, and the hypotenuse is 29 meters. Great work if you found all three. Now, the setup might have been tough, so if you got stuck there, watch part of the solution, and then pause it and see if you can continue solving. To start setting up this problem, we'll let x be the shortest side of our right triangle. We do this since we know the longer leg of the right triangle is 1 meter more than the shorter leg. So, we know this longer leg has to be X plus 1. And now here's where we want to be careful. We know the hypotenuse is 8 meters longer than the longer leg. So, we'll take the length of the longer leg, X plus 1, and we'll add on 8 meters. So, the entire length of our hypotenuse Is x plus 1 plus 8, or just x plus 9. Now we have expressions for each side of our right triangle, and we can use the Pythagorean Theorem to solve. We square x, which is one of the legs, and x plus 1, the other leg. This gives us these two expressions and then we square by hypotenuse x plus 9, to get this expression on the right hand side of our equation. We combine the light terms here to get 2x squared and the rest of our equation remains the same. Next we subtract each of these terms from both sides of the equation. So we have 0 on the right, and x squared minus 16 x minus 80 on the left. Next, we factor this expression to get x minus 20, times x plus 4, equals 0. We set each factor equal to 0, which means the solutions for x could be positive 20 or negative 4, the opposite sign of the factors in the parentheses. We know a negative side length for x wouldn't make sense in this case, because we would have negative 4 here. So, this solution is not valid. When we plug in 20 for x in each of these expressions, we'll get our side links of 20, 21, and 29. With the hypotenuse being the longest one of 29 units. And since our original side links were reported in meters, we report each of these in meters. Here's your fifth and final problem on the Pythagorean Theorem. Try setting up a diagram to model the situation and then when you think you have the solution, enter it here. The distance from the base of the building to the foot of the ladder, or the bottom of the ladder, is 18ft. Great solving for getting this one right. This one was tough. To start, we should begin with a diagram. We'll have a building and then we'll have a 30ft ladder stretching from the ground up to reach the top, or near the top of the building. We need to place the foot of the ladder, this part, so that it's distance away from the building, is 6ft less than the distance up the building. So if we let this distance be x, we know this distance must be x minus 6. Now, this might look confusing. We see a distance that's longer here, than it is here. Well, my drawings not to scale. Just because you draw a diagram, it doesn't mean it needs to be perfect. We're just doing a sketch of the situation so we can solve our problem. So, now that we have our expressions for this side and this side and, we have a length of the hypotenuse. We're ready to use the Pythagorean theorem. So, we'll square the legs, and then we'll square the hypotenuse. This gives us x squared plus x squared minus 12x plus 36 equals 900. Combining the like terms here we will get 2x squared minus 12x plus 36 equals 900, then we subtract 900 from both sides to get this equation. Each of these terms is even, so we can divide our equation by a factor of two. Now we want a factor of this quadratic. We find factors of negative 432 that sum to negative 6. Those two factors are negative 24 and positive 18. Next, we set each factor equal to 0 and we solve for the values of x. Positive 24 and negative 18. We know that this distance needs to be positive, so this answer is out. This must mean that the distance from the bottom of the building to the top of the ladder is 24ft. And the distance from the base of the building to the base of the ladder is 18ft. Great solving if you got all the way to the end. [NOISE] I hope you've been cruising along through the course so far. Now, I'm going to throw you a little roadblock. Let's say your car breaks down at mile marker 210 while driving down Interstate I-80. I-80 runs from west to east in the state of Nevada, and the interstate cuts across the entire state. Since your car's broken down, you need to walk to the nearest town. Using the map in the car you determine that there's a gas station 21 miles south of mile marker 190. So, you know you're here and you're wondering what's the distance to mile marker 190? The distance between the mile markers is 20 miles, great work if you found this number. We know this is correct, since we want to just count the number of miles between 190 and 210. So, we really just want to subtract this mile marker from this one. So, 210 minus 190 equals 20 miles. And you might have thought to subtract 210 from 190. That actually would have worked as well. You just want to make sure that you take the absolute value of that number. Since 190 minus 210 is negative 20, we want the positive result, or the absolute value of that number. So either way you think about it, you'll still have a distance of 20 miles. So, if you walk along the interstate, and then south to the town, how far would you walk? Write that answer here. Then I want you to think about, is this the shortest distance that you can walk? Yes or no. You would have to walk 41 miles in total. That's pretty far. First, you'd start at mile marker 210 where your car broke down. You'd walk 20 miles west, and then 21 miles south. So we would just add 20 miles and 21 miles, which is 41 miles. Hopefully you also figured out that this is not the shortest distance. The shortest distance between any two points is actually a straight line. Now we're going to assume that the region in this area is relatively at the same elevation. Meaning we're not going uphill and downhill a lot in any direction we go. This is why we can be fairly sure that this distance would be the shortest distance from mile marker 210 straight to the town. Now even if you weren't sure if this was the shortest distance, I want you to find this actual distance. What is C? When you've figured it out, write that answer here. The shortest distance here would be 29 miles. Good thinking if you found this number. We can actually use the Pythagorean theorem in this case, since we have a right triangle. We know that our town is due south of the interstate, and our interstate runs from west to east. So, this means that the interstate and this north south direction meet at a right angle. So, the distance between these two mile markers is one leg of our triangle. And this distance, 21 miles, is another leg of our right triangle. So, we can square this leg and add it to the square of this leg to get the square of our hypotenuse. So, we'll have a squared plus b squared equals c squared. When we square these numbers and find their sum, we'll get 841 equals c squared. And then taking the square root of both sides, we'll have 1c is equal to the square root of 841, which equals 29. Great solving if you applied the Pythagorean theorem in this situation. So, we know you're at mile marker 210. But before you put your map away, your friend sees another town located seven miles south of mile marker 234. So what's the distance to this second town? Keep in mind that you want to find the shortest distance to the town. When you think you have that answer, enter it here. Then, let me know if this town is closer than this town. If this town is closer, chose yes, otherwise choose no. We can find the distance from our broken down car to the town by setting up a right triangle. We know the distance between the mile markers is 24, since we can subtract the smaller mile marker from the larger one. So, this distance is 24 miles, and our north south distance here is only 7 miles. That was the distance from the interstate to the town. We're looking for this distance d. So, we'll have this leg squared plus this leg squared equals our hypotenuse squared. Squaring the legs, we'll get 576 plus 49 equals d squared. This sum is 625, and then finally we will take the square root of both sides to solve for d. We only need the positive root of 625 since we are dealing with distance, so d is equal to 25. So, if you had to pick which town to walk to, it's actually show to walk to town two. You have to walk 4 miles less than you would if you walked all the way to town 1. So, notice that in both cases, we're finding the distance between two points, here and here, and here and here. When we found the distance between these two points, we set up a right triangle and found the horizontal distance between them, and the vertical distance between them. This allowed us to use the Pythagorean Theorem to find the hypotenuse or the diagonal between the two points. The same was true in this case for town 2. We found the distance horizontally between the mile markers. And then the distance vertically, or south to go to the town. We squared these two numbers and found their sum, and then took the square root to get the distance. We can do something similar if we wanted to find the distance between any two points. So, let's say we had these points, negative 7 and 3, and 5 and 8. We can think of drawing two interstates our roads, horizontally and vertically. And the distance between the two points is the diagonal, or the hypotenuse of the right triangle we just created. To find the vertical distance between the two points, we want to look at the y values. We can think about this vertical distance as starting at y equals 3. Then it goes all the way up to y equals 8. So, if we find the difference, or the amount between the y values, we'll get the vertical distance, which is 5 here. So, knowing this, what do you think would be the horizontal distance? What's this distance? Well, this distance would be 12 units, great thinking if you found it. Since to find this vertical distance, we figured out how far we climbed on the y axis. We went from y equals 3, up 5 units to y equals 8. That's how we knew that this distance was 5. So to find the horizontal distance. We're going to start at x equals negative 7, this x value, and run all the way to the right, to x equals positive 5, this x value. So, the horizontal distance between these two points would be from negative 7 to positive 5. That would be a total distance of 12 units. You can find this distance by counting the spaces from negative 7 to positive 5. Or you can subtract the 2 numbers, and make sure to take the absolute value, so you get a positive number in the end. Here I just did 5 minus negative 7, which equals positive 12. If you would've subtracted 5 from negative 7, you would've gotten negative 12. So you would've had to take the absolute value. So that way you get a positive distance, or just 12. When we think about the distance between two points, we want to picture a right triangle. The hypotenuse is the distance between them, and then we have the horizontal distance as one leg and the vertical distance between the points as another leg. We can use this right triangle to solve for any distance D. So, what do you think is the distance between these two points? Write that answer here. It turns out that the distance is 13 units. Great solving if you found it. We can use the Pythagorean theorem to set up an equation. We'll have this leg squared plus this leg squared equals our hypotenuse squared. Solving for d, we'll get d is equal to 13 units. But let's be more general. We can do this for any 2 points in the Cornet plane. So if this point is x1 y1 and this point is x2 y2, lets see if we can create a formula for the distance between them. Before we get to write an equation, I want you to write an two expressions. What's an expression for this horizontal distance? Write that here. And what's an expression for the vertical distance? Write that one here. We know that this distance here is this distance on the number line. So if we go all the way to x2 and subtract off x1, we'll be left with the part in between them. For the vertical distance this part we want to look at the y values. We start at y1 and then we climb all the way up to y2. So if we want to find this vertical distance, we really want to find this vertical distance on the number line. So, we'll go all the way up to y2, and we'll subtract off y1. This will leave us with just this distance here. So, this is how we know that the horizontal distance is x2 minus x1, and the vertical distance is y2 minus y1. So now that we have the set up for a right triangle, I want you to find the equation for the distance. You can either write an equation set to d squared, or you can have an equation set equal to d. Good luck on this one. One possible answer is this equation. We're going to square this leg of the triangle. Add it to the square of this leg of the triangle. Which is equal to d squared, hypotenuse. This is really just the Pythagorean theorem. We have a number squared. Plus another number squared. Equals they hypotenuse squared. And what we could do is take the square root of both sides of the equation. This would leave us with d equal to the square root of x2 minus x1 squared, plus y2 minus y1 squared. Great thinking if you got either of the equations. Now, the order of these variables doesn't actually matter, since we're squaring the numbers. If we wound up with a negative value here, it would become positive, since we're squaring it. The same is true for the y value. If this value is negative, and we squared it, it would wind up being positive. So, perhaps an easier way to think about it, is just, think about the change in the x and the change in the y. How far did we travel this way, and how far did we travel this way. We'll square both of those, take their sum, and then take the square root to find the distance. This symbol right here that you see here is delta and its a Greek letter that means change. You may have seen this in chemistry or in other courses. And this delta just means change. I think its easy to think about the change in the x values. And the change in the y values to find our answer. This is more simple than writing this crazy notation. Memorizing the formula is not so important as really understanding that we're setting up a right triangle in space, when we find the distance between two points. That can always help you problem solve. For your first practice problem try finding the distance between these two points. This point is at 3 comma 2 and this point is at negative 1 comma 8. When you think you have the distance, enter it here. The answer is 2 times the square root of 13. Great thinking if you found this number. We want to find the distance between these two points. So, we need to set up a right triangle with the vertical distance and the horizontal distance. The horizontal distance between x equals negative 1 and x equals positive 3 is 4. We have to move four units in the x direction to get from x equals negative 1 to x equals positive 3. Now we need to find the vertical distance. We start at y equals 2, which is here, and then we go all the way up to y equals 8, which is here. So, this vertical distance on the y axis is a distance of 6 units. Once we've found these two legs of our right triangle, we can use the Pythagorean theorem to find the hypotenuse. So, we'll have this leg squared, plus this leg squared, equals d squared, our hypotenuse. We solve this equation to get d squared equals 52. And then we take the square root of both sides to get d is equal to the square root of 52. Simplifying the square root of 52, we'll get d is equal to 2 times root 13. This is our simplified distance. And again, notice that the horizontal distance is simply the change in the x values. We went from x equals negative 1 to x equals 3. And notice that the vertical distance was the change in the y values. We went from y equals 2 all the way up to y equals 8. So, we'll have the change in y squared, plus the change in x squared equals d squared. We can use our algebra skills and eventually solve for d. Try finding the distance between the points 2, negative 4 and negative 3, 6. Be careful when you find the change in the x values and the change in the y values. When you think have the distance, type it in here. The distance between the points is 5 times the square root of 5. Great solving if you found that one. This is a rough sketch of the points on the coordinate plane. Notice that I'm not precise, and that's okay. We're really just after the difference in the x values, and the difference in the y values, or the change in them. So, to find the distance between these two points, we need to set up our right triangle. First we'll find the horizontal distance. We'll go from x equals 2 to x equals negative 3. That's a distance of five units. Now if that's confusing, try thinking about it by starting at x equals negative 3. If we start at x equals negative 3 and count up to x equals 2, we will travel the five units horizontally. We want to think about the horizontal distance when traveling on a number line. Now we need to find the vertical distance. We start at y equals negative 4 which is here. And then we climb all the way up to y equals 6 here. The vertical distance between y equals negative 4 and y equals 6 is ten units. So we know this vertical distance is simply ten. Now that we have the legs of our right triangle, we can solve for the distance. We'll have the change in x squared which is 5 squared. the change in y squared, which is 10 squared equal to d squared, our hypotenus. We'll add the sum of the squares, to get d squared equals 125, and then, we'll square root both sides, to get 1d is equal to the square root of 25 times 5. We simplify this square root to get our final answer of 5 root 5. Again great work if you got some of that correct. Even more amazing if you got it right on your first try. For the last problem, find the distance between the point 3, 4 and negative 2, negative 3. Good luck. The distance between the two points is the square root of 74. Great problem solving if you found it. We'll start by drawing a rough sketch on the points on the coordinate plane. If we want to find this distance between the two points, we set up a right triangle in two dimensional space. The horizontal distance goes from x equals negative 2 to x equals positive 3. So, we know that this distance is a horizontal distance between the values of negative 2 and positive 3. Which is the total distance of 5 units. For this vertical distance we want to find the difference between the y values or the change in them. We start at y equals negative 3, and we climb all the way up to y equals 4. This distance, so we know that this distance is 7 units. Keep in mind that the distance on this vertical axis, or between the y coordinates, is the same out here. This is a vertical distance that's the same as this one. So, we'll have the change in x squared, which is 5 squared, plus the change in y squared, which is 7 squared equals d squared, our hypotenuse. Squaring these numbers, and finding this sum, will get 74 equals d squared. Now, we just take the square root of both sides, keeping only the positive root. So, one d is equal to the square root of 74. Now, if we try to simplify the square root of 74, we notice that its factors are 2 and 37. These are not perfect squares, so we just leave our answer as the square root of 74. Now, we're going to move away from the distance formula and the Pythagorean theorem. We'll still use the Pythagorean theorem in this upcoming lesson, but we'll use it for circles. We're almost to the end of the course, but before we get to that end, let's talk about the end of a string. Here's a string of unknown length. Now, I'm not going to tell you what length it is yet. You're actually going to calculate that yourself, we're going to take this string and place it on a coordinate grid. Notice that I have one end of the string at the origin 0, 0. The horizontal distance from the center which is the origin to the end of the string is 40 centimeters, that's this distance. And the vertical distance from the origin to the end of the string is 30 centimeters. So, knowing this horizontal distance, and this vertical distance, what x, y coordinate can describe the position of the end of this string? Write that answer here. Once you've done that, I want you to try and figure out the length of the string. How long is this? Write that answer here. The end of this string is at the point 40, 30, and the link to this string is 50 centimeter. Great work if you found these two answers. Now, for the end of the string we just want to have a coordinate pair. The x distance is 40 units or 40 centimeter, and the y, or vertical distance is 30, 30 centimeter. The length of this string is actually the hypotenuse of this right triangle. So we can use the Pythagorean theorem to solve for the length of the string. We'll have a squared, which is 30, plus b squared, which is 40, equal to c squared, our hypotenuse. When we square these two numbers we'll get 900 plus 1600. Then when we sum these numbers we will get 2500 equal to c squared. Now we just want to take the square root of both side of our equation to solve for c. Taking the square root of both sides, will only keep the positive root, since we're dealing with a distance, so c equals 50 centimeter. Now the much faster approach, to solving this, would be to understand that we have a 3, 4, 5 right triangle. The ratio has just been multiplied by 10. So, this side is 30, this side is 40. And this length of our string, is 50 centimeters. If you solved it using that 3, 4, 5 ratio, amazing work. Let's draw another red triangle Here is my string and the end of it is at the origin. Here is a horizontal distance and here is a vertical distance. Now between these two triangles that we created which two side lengths are the same? You can check which of the sides you think are equal. Well we know that these two hypotenuses must be the same. This hypotenuse, and this hypotenuse were both measured using a length of the string. The length of the string is 50cm and it hasn't changed since when we created this triangle from the first triangle. We only change the position of the end of the string when creating a second triangle. So the length of the string didn't change so we know these two lengths must be equal. So we have this new right triangle but what is this vertical distance here? When you think you know it, type it in here and I have already included the units of centimeters. You will also want to round your answer to the nearest tenth. So you should have one digit after the decimal point. This vertical distance is about forty five and eight tenths of a centimeter. Nice problem solving if you got this correct. We'll find this vertical leg by using the Pythagorean theorem. We know the horizontal distance are one leg of the triangle is twenty units. And we know the length of a string is fifty units. Now our units are centimeters but I'm just leaving it out as we work through the problem. We want to make sure we add that back in when we get to our answer. So twenty squared equals four hundred and fifty squared equals two thousand five hundred. Then we'll subtract four hundred from both sides of our equation to get b squared equals two thousand one hundred. We'll take the square root of both sides of the equation indicating plus or minus. But we'll only use the positive root in the sense that we have a distance. In this case b is about forty five and eighty two hundredths Round it to the nearest tenth we'll have forty five and eight tenths. We've been working in centimeters so we'll report this answer in centimeters. Let's make some more of these right triangles in this first quadrant. Here is another red triangle and here is another one as well. So, notice I have four different red triangles in the first quadrant and they are all related by the Pythagorean theorem. The length of the string is fifty centimeters in each case. So that means the hypotenuses of each right triangle is fifty centimeters. But let's create a right triangle in this quadrant. If I had this right triangle what would be the coordinates of the end of the string now? Write the coordinates for this position here. This coordinate would be negative 40, 30. Nice thinking if you got these two numbers. Even though the distance is reported as a positive value we need a negative x coordinate in order to indicate a different direction. If we just had 40, 30 then the end of the string would be the same position that we described first over here. We moved in the negative x direction so we use negative 40 for the x coordinate and then positive 30 for the y coordinate. So, let's say we created lots of right triangles. What if I made another triangle here and another triangle here and another one here? And we could keep going and make another right triangle here and another one right here. Now, the points along the outer edge represent the end of the string when making any one right triangle. What shape would all these points, that represent the position of the end of the string, make? These points would form a circle. I hope you knew that was coming. Great job if you got it. When we think about a circle, we're really thinking about a particular relationship between any of the points. That is, the distance from any one of these points to the origin is always the same. In this case, any distance from the end point of a string to the origin represent 50 centimeters. They're all constant. So let's lose our coordinate grid and all of those right triangles. That's right, we've gone off the grid. We just have one piece of string centered at the origin, 0,0. And we have the end of the string at some point x comma y. We know that if we were to rotate this piece of string anywhere, we would create a circle by the position of the end of the string. So, what's that equation that we can write relating x and y, and the length of the string? If you think about relating the horizontal distance and this vertical distance with the length of the string, I'm sure you can come up with the correct equation. The equation for our circle is x squared plus y squared equals 2500. Now that's amazing if you got this equation right. This one wasn't easy. Now, we know this horizontal distance is x units. That's the distance between these two points, at least just the horizontal distance. And we know that this vertical distance is a distance of y units. We started at 0 and we went down y. So, notice that we've created a right triangle. So we can relate these distances with this side length. The string is 50 centimeters in length, so we know that x squared plus y squared equals 50 squared, or 2500. So, no matter where the position of the string is, this distance relationship will always be true. X squared plus y squared will always equal 2,500. And it turns out that this distance from the center to any point on the circle is called the radius. In this case 50 centimeters. So, we know that this equation describes this circle. The distance from the center of the circle to any point on the circle will always be 50 centimeters. And that should make sense, because that's the length of our string. No matter where the end of the string is, we know that the distance from the origin to the circle is 50 centimeters. Now, this distance is always constant and it's called the radius of the circle. So in this case, the length of the string is the radius and it's 50 centimeters. So now let consider any equation of a circle that's centered at the origin. So, here's a new piece of string. And I'm going to cut it. So that way, I don't know the radius. So we'll let the length of this string be r. We don't know it. And at this length, we'll represent the radius of our new circle. And remember, we can create this circle by plotting all the points of the end of the string. If we do this, what equation describes this circle? Write that equation here. Now, if you're a little stumped. Remember that you're centered at the origin. And any point out here is x, y. The equation would be x squared plus y squared equals r squared. Now that's amazing work if you got this equation. Remember that for any point on our circle, we can set up a right triangle. So, we'll have this leg squared, plus this leg squared, equals our radius squared. It works for a point out here. And it would've worked for this point, down here. We have another right triangle, here, so we would have X squared plus Y squared equals r squared. Where r is the length of our string. Now that you've seen the general equation for circle centered at the origin, what do you think would be the radius of this equation? Keep in mind that the equation really represents a circle. This equation would have a radius of 8. Great thinking if you found that number. We know that the general equation for a circle centered at the origin is x squared, plus y squared, equals r squared. So, we know that r squared must equal the number 64. Its the number on the end of the equation. So, solving for r will take the square root of both side so, one r equals positive 8, and I use the positive root only since we are dealing with radius. A distance from the center to the points on the circle. If we actually graph the circle, we could easily see that the center is at the origin. And that the radius is 8, the distance to any point on the circle. Now, we haven't created any sort of equations yet, but I think you'll be able to answer this question. What would be the equation of a circle that has a radius of 10 and is centered at the origin. Your equation should use the variables x and y and when you think you have it enter it here The equation would be x squared plus y squared equals 100. Great work if you got that equation. We know, this is the equation of any circle centered at the origin. We just need to know the radius, r. In this case, the r value is 10. So, we just plug in 10 for r. We'll have this equation. And then simplifying 10 squared, we'll get 100. So, this is the equation for our circle. We just saw that this equation was a circle, with a radius of 10. So now let's consider some other points. Do you think each of these points would be, inside of our circle? Outside of our circle? Or on the circle. Choose one of these for each of the points. Keep in mind if it's on the circle, this point, the x and y value, would satisfy our equation. If it doesn't satisfy the equation, then think about what kind of numbers our results would be inside the circle and what kind would be outside. Good luck here. These two points are inside the circle, this point is on the circle and this point is outside the circle. Great work if you got all four of them correct. Now if you weren't sure where to start, let's look at this first point and see why it's on the circle. Then you might be able to figure out why these are inside and this one's outside. Remember that this is really just a right triangle in space. It has some horizontal distance x and some vertical distance y. So we want to be sure that when we plug in the values for x like negative 6 and the value of y like positive 8, we get 100. So squaring negative 6 and squaring 8 we'll get 36 plus 64 which equals 100. So yes, it turns out that this statement is true. This means that the point negative 6, 8 Is a point on our circle, since it satisfies the equation. We also know that this point is on our circle since we can set up a right triangle. The point, negative 6, 8 is 6 units left from the origin and 8 units up. If we use the Pythagorean theorem here, we'll discover that this side, or this radius, is 10. This should also make sense because we really have a 3, 4, 5 triangle. The triangle has just been multiplied by 2 to give us a 6, 8, 10 triangle. So we know that the distance from the origin to this point is 10 units. And that matches with our idea that any point on our circle is 10 units from the center. So, by checking the point in our calculations or by drawing out a diagram, we can know that this point is definitely on our circle. For this point, it turns out it will be inside. When we check the point negative 9, 4, we'll plug in x with the value of negative 9, and we'll substitute the value of y with 4. Simple, find the left-hand side of our equation we'll get 97. We know that's not equal to 100, and in fact this is less than 100. Since negative 9 squared plus 4 squared equals 97, we really know that we're inside the circle. Remember that 10 is the radius of our circle, it's the square root of this number. So, this means the distance from the origin to this point is the square root of 97 which is definitely less than 10. The right triangle for this point would look like this we'd have 9 units to the left of the origin and then 4 units up. This point would just be shy of reaching our circle. We know that the distance from the origin to this point is the square root of 97. It's the square root of this number. We really want this distance to be 10 or the square root of a 100 and its not, its less than that. So that's how we know that this point is inside the circle. The same would be true for the point 7, negative 7. If we plug in x with the value of 7 and y with a value of negative 7 we'll get the statement 98 equals 100. This isn't true so we know that the distance from the origin to this point is less than 10. So this point must be inside. And finally for this point when we plug in x with a value of 5. And y with the value of 9, will get 106 equal to 100. This isn't true and we know that 106 is greater than 100, that means that the distance of 5, 9, from the origin, is greater than 10. The point, 5, 9 would be, just outside of our circle. We can even see this one desmos. Here's the equation of our circle and we can see that the point negative 6, 8 is on it. Even if we zoom in, we can quickly see that, yes, the point is on the circle. And then this other point negative 9, 4 isn't. It's just slightly inside of our circle. The other point that we said was inside the circle is 7, negative 7. This point down here. Zooming in on this region, we see that it's just shy of being on the circle. And that should make sense, because we found that the distance from the origin to this point, was the square root of 98. Almost the square root of 100, which is 10 to the circle. And finally, we looked at the point 5, 9. This orange point out here. Zooming in we see that, yes, it's just outside of our circle. Let's get back to our original circle with a radius of 50 units. Here's the circle, and then this is the center of the circle, 0,0. It's at the origin. Now, not every single circle we encounter will be centered at the origin. Let's try and move this one. Say we wanted to move the center 20 units to the right, to this point. This means if we move the center 20 units to the right. Then every other point on the graph must also move 20 units to the right. What would be the coordinates of these four points if we move them 20 units to the right? Well, if we want to send each of these four points 20 units to the right, we just set 20 to all the x coordinates. So this first point at 50, 0 will now be at 70, 0. This point at 0, -50 will now be at 20, -50. And this point, we'll move to negative 30, comma 0. And finally the point 0, 50, we'll move 20 units to the right, so we add 20 to 0, giving us the point 20, comma 50. So, notice that we took our orange circle with the center at 0, 0 and we moved its center to 20, 0. We also moved the other four points, so we can connect them to form a new circle that's been shifted 20 units to the right. But what I'm wondering is what's the equation that would represent this circle? We know we can't use this equation since it represents the circle centered at the origin. We also know that this equation cant be right for our new circle since if we plug in the points 70, 0 into the equation, it doesn't check. The x value is too large. Keep in mind that this point was at 50, 0 and the y value still was 0. But the x value changed to 70. Which made this too big, and it made our equation not check. So what I want you to think about is, what would be the equation for our new circle centered at the point 20, 0? I want you to enter that equation here. Now I want to acknowledge that this is a really tough question. You want to think about if the radius changed at all, or if the x values changed or the y values changed. We need to adjust one of them. Which one do you think we should adjust and by how much? Take some time to think about it, and if you'd like, you can always play around on decimals and enter your own equations to see how circles move. You're not expected to get everything right on your first try, you're just expected to think and learn about math. Our new circle, is centered at the point 20,0 here and it has this equation. That's amazing thought if you got it correct. We know that for this blue circle, the radius still needs to be 50 units. This is why we still have 2500 on the right-hand side for our constant. The square root of this number is 50, our radius. Notice that for this orange circle and for this blue circle, the y values never changed. We're at the same height for any point along our graph. In other words, we only shifted the graph to the right. So, the only thing we really changed or manipulated were the x values. We moved all of our points 20 units to the right. So, the x values all increase by 20. To compensate for this adjustment, we need to subtract 20 from all our x values to maintain the same radius. So, for circles if we subtract something from x we really shift it to the right that many units. So, subtracting 20 moves this circle 20 unit to the right. So, if we add 20, we'll actually move our circle 20 units to the left. I really recommend playing around with this equation to see how you can move a circle around on a graph. Maybe see if you can make it go up or down. Based on what you've seen so far, let's see if you can shift a circle. So here this orange circle was our original circle we saw with a radius of 50 units. This blue circle was our same circle shifted 20 units to the right. And keep in mind even though we went 20 units to the right, we see a subtraction of 20 in the equation I feel like this goes against my intuition. Usually when I think about moving to the right, in the x direction, I think about adding or positive 20. But in our equation it's actually a negative 20. You always want to keep this in mind when shifting a circle. What's in the equation will be the opposite of the direction we move. So if we have negative 20 in an equation, we really move our circle 209 units to the right. So, knowing this, what do you think would be the equation of a circle with center at negative 10, 2 and a radius of 50? Enter that equation here. Here's the original circle we had with a radius of 50 and its center was at the origin 0,0. We want to have a new circle at center negative 10 comma 20. So we really need to move our circle 10 units left and 20 units up. This means in the equation we'll see a plus 10 next to the x. And a minus 20 next to the y. The positive 10 will shift our circle 10 units to the left, and we see that here. And the minus 20 will shift our circle 20 units up vertically. Notice too that the signs here are opposite. If we have a circle with a center at negative 10, then in the equation we have positive 10 next to the x. And if the center is at positive 20 for the y coordinate, then we have negative 20 in the equation. If you feel like you're stuck, try creating some other circles with other numbers and see how the circles move. Are you moving up, down, left, or right? What do you think would be the center of a circle with this equation? Enter that point here. This center would be at the point 4 comma 3. This is a graph of the circle, and we can see that the graph has been shifted 4 units right and 3 units up. This black circle is the equation x squared plus y squared equals 25. It's a circle with a radius of 5 units. And notice that it's center is at 0 comma 0. We'll we're really just shifting this equation. We're going to shift it right 4 units since we have minus 4 and up 3 units since we have minus 3. So, this is how our center shifts from 0 comma 0 to 4 comma 3. So, this is the general equation for any circle. The number on the end is "r" squared, and so the square root of this number is the radius. And then if there's a number next to the "x", and a number next to the "k", these are the numbers that form our center. We take their opposite sign from the one that's in parenthesis. So, for example, if this is negative and this is negative, then both "h" and "k" will be positive. Whereas if there were positive signs inside of our equations, that means that these two values would be negative. Let's check out a few examples to see this in action. Here's a circle centered at the origin with a radius of 5. Notice that this equation is really the same as this one. If we subtracted or added zero to the "x" and "y" value, we'd still be at a center of (0,0). This is our "h" and this is our "k". I'm gonna switch between these graphs. Right now I only have this one being shown as graphed. When I turn this one off, and turn this one on, I notice that I get the same exact graph as before. And that should make sense because if we subtract zero from anything, it doesn't change the value. Here's another circle and this one has a center at (3,3). We took our old circle and shifted it three units to the right and three units up, vertically. We can even see that if we examine two of the points on the circle. This one, at (0,5) for this circle, has now been moved to (3,8), for this circle. We moved it three units right for the "x", from 0 to 3, and three units vertically from 5 to 8. And it turns out that this is true for all the points on this circle. We can examine another point and see that it was moved three units right and then three units up. And here's a different circle. This one's been shifted four units to the left, and then one unit up, vertically. And notice, too, that the center of this new circle is at (-4,1). This is the "h" value and it's opposite in sign of the equation, and this is the "k" value which is opposite of this number in the equation. Here's one final graph. For this one, it's been shifted two units left and two units down. And if we examine its center, it's at (-2,-2). Notice that these two signs are opposite than the ones in the equation. Here's our "h" value, and its opposite which is -2, and here's our "k" value, which is opposite, so -2. Now that you've seen the general equation for any circle, I want you to try and figure out what are the centers and radiuses for each of these circles? Work carefully, and don't forget to pay attention to the minus and addition signs. Good luck! Here are the centers and here are the radii. Great work, if you figured each of them out. Let's start by focusing on the center. Remember the center is at h, k and we take the sign that's opposite and this parenthesis. So, we know the x coordinate here is positive 1 and the y coordinate of the center is positive 2. This is the h value. This is the k value. For this second one we'll have negative three for the x coordinate of our center. This is our h value. And we'll have positive 3 for the y coordinate of our center. This is the k value. And notice that since these signs match, we just take the positive 3 for k whereas here we have to have negative 3 for the value of h. This third one might have been tricky. We'll have positive 7 for the x coordinate of our center and we'll have 0 for the y coordinate of our center. There's nothing or subtracted in parentheses for this y, so we know the k value is just 0. And finally for the last one we'll have negative 4, 2 for this center. We change the sign here and we change the sign here. Now let's focus on the radius. If we take the square root of the number on the end, we get the radius. So, the square root of 16 equals 4, the square root of 1 equals 1, and the square root of 49 equals 7. For this last one, we'll take the square root of 8, which really equals 2 root 2. Now, you could have just written square root of 8 and that would have been correct as well. These two are the same number. Sometimes, though, the equation of a circle won't appear in this form. It could appear like this. When we see an equation with an x squared term, a y squared term, and other terms that have x and y at a constant, we want to re-arrange this so we can put it in this form. Notice that we have a perfect square of an x term, and a perfect square of a y term. If this is the case, we want to re-arrange this equation so we can group the x terms together and we can group the y terms together. We'll also want to move this constant to the right hand side of our equation. We do this so that we can complete the square for the x terms and for the Y terms. So what do we need to add to the left hand side of our equation to complete the square for these X terms. Keep in mind if we add an amount to this side we need to add the same amount to the right hand side of our equation so we keep the equation balanced. And, what do you think we would need to the y terms in order for this to become a perfect square. Again, whatever we add to the left, we need to add to the right. We'll add one to both sides to complete the square for the x terms. And we'll add 4 to both sides to complete the square for the y terms. Nice thinking if you got those numbers. Remember to complete the square, we need to add b over 2 squared. The b value is the coefficient in front of the single x term. Notice that we just have x to the first power. So that means b must equal 2 here. So we'll have 2 divided by 2 which equals 1 and 1 squared is positive 1. So we add this to the left hand side and the right hand side of our equation. For the y terms, our b value is 4. So we'll have 4 divided by 2 which equals 2 and we'll square it to get 4. This is what we add to the left and to the right. So now using this form, I want you to write this equation, so we have an x term squared. A y term squared. And then radius squared. What's our new equation? We can rewrite this trinomial as a perfect square, x plus 1 squared. And we can rewrite this trinomial as y plus 2 squared. And finally, we add the constant terms on the right hand side of our equation to get positive 9. This is our equation for our circle. And now that we've turned this equation into one that's more easily recognizable, what's the center and what's the radius? The center is at negative 1 comma negative 2 and the radius is 3, the square root of 9. Great work if you got these two right. Now, if you made a mistake, that's okay. Just keep in mind that the center is always the opposite sign of what's in the parenthesis here and here. We have positive 1 here and positive 2 here. So the h must be negative 1 and the k must be negative 2. Alright, we have covered a lot of ground with circles. Let's see if you can answer your first practice question. What do you think would be the equation of a circle with a radius of 4 and is centered at the origin? We'll want to have the equation x squared plus y squared equals 16. Great thinking if you got this equation. Remember that circles that are centered at the origin are of this form, x squared plus y squared equals r squared. We know that the radius is 4, so we simply replace r with the value of 4. So we'll have x squared plus y squared equals 4 squared, which is really 16. How about this one? Which of these graphs, would be the circle for this equation? Is it this circle, this one, this one, or this one? It would be this circle. We know this, since the center is at negative 2 comma negative 3. This is our h value, it's opposite in sign of this and this is our k value, opposite sign of the number next to the y in parenthesis. Great thinking, if you picked this circle. Which of these circles would be the graph for this equation? Would it be this blue circle, this green circle, this orange circle, this black circle, this purple circle or this red circle? Choose the best one. The graph would be this purple circle. We know this since the radius would be 4, which is the square root of 16. So out of all of the circles, we want the smallest radius, that would be 4. Our center will be at 2, negative 1. We know this since this sign is negative 2, so h is positive 2 and this sign is positive 1, so k is negative 1. The large circles had a radius of 16 and that would have been way too big. The next circles a size down had a radius of 8, still too large. So, we were really choosing between the smallest 2 circles. And it's this one because its center is at 2, negative 1. And if we zoom in, we can easily see that. The center is at 2, negative 1 here. Now, I know you didn't have this close up view for the circle, but the idea was to get an estimate of which one you think it is. Based on the direction that the center moved and based on the size of the radius. Sometimes it's just as good to have a qualitative understanding of about what your graph should look like, rather than an exact picture. That's what we were going for with this question. Alright, let's see if you can tackle this one. What do you think would be the center and the radios for his equation? Keep in mind that this equation really represents a circle. This circle will have a radius of 2 and a center at the point negative 3, 1. Great work if you found those two. Now if you struggled with this, I recommend going back to looking at completing the square. You'll need this as a helpful tool for the many of the types of problems, you'll encounter later. We want to start by subtracting 6 from both sides of the equation. So we'll have negative 6 on the right, and then we'll have our x squared term and 6x on the left, and our y squared term and negative 2y, also on the left. I'm moving my constant term to the right. And I'm regrouping the x terms together, and the y terms together. We'll add 9 to our x terms, and we'll add that to both sides of our equation. We add 9 since b over 2 squared equals 9. B is 6. We divide it by 2 which equals 3 and we square it to get 9. To complete the square for the y terms. We'll add 1 to both sides of the equation. The b here is negative 2. So negative 2 divided by 2 equals negative 1. And then we'll square it, which equals positive 1. So these terms terms can be written as the perfect square of x plus 3 squared. And these three terms could be written as the perfect square of y minus 1 squared. And then on the right hand side, we simply add these constants together to get a total of 4. Now our equation is in a form we recognize. We have h, which is negative 3. And we have k, which is positive 1. And then our radius is simply the square root of this number, it's 2. Try this one out. What do you think would be the circles' radius and the circles' center? The circle has a radius of 4 and its center is at the point 2, -3. Great work if you found these two answers. Again, we'll start by moving this constant term of -3 to the right hand side. So we'll add 3 to both sides of our equation. Then I'll regroup my two x terms together on the left hand side, and I'll regroup my two y terms on the left hand side as well. Now I'm ready to complete the square for the x terms and the y terms. We add 4 to complete the square for the x terms and we addd 9 to complete the square for the y terms. Keep in mind we also need to add 4 and 9 to the right hand side of our equation to make sure it's balanced. So, these three terms can be written as x - 2 squared these three terms can be written as y + 3 squared and then we simply combine these three terms to get +16. So now our equation is in a form we recognise. Our centre is at 2,-3. Since the h value is +2 and the k value is -3. We take the square root of our constant term to get a radius equal to 4. Again great solving if you got these two answers. We've looked closely at circles, so now let's examine ellipses. Ellipses are very much like circles. There's just one exception. The distance we go in the x direction will be different from the distance we go in the y direction. So, sometimes we might move further from the center in the x direction than we would vertically in the y direction. And other times we might go further in the y direction from the center, than we would in the x direction from the center. We'll see a lot of similarities between circles and ellipses, so lets try looking at a circle first. There's this amazing online graphing calculator called Desmos. If you've never heard of it, I highly recommend that you check it out. It allows us to easily enter in equations. And we can instantly see what the graph looks like. For now we're going to look at the equation of a circle, but if you ever want to play around with this on your own, go to www.decimals.com. You can create your own account and then start to draw and save your own graphs. For circles we know they have equal amounts of x squared and y squared. And if we take the square root of this number, we'll get six. That's the radius of our circle. The distance to any point from the center to another point on the circle. But what if we wanted to graph this equation? Notice that we have different amounts of x squared and y squared now. Now, I'm going to go ahead and let you know that this will be the graph of an ellipse. So, let's see how we can graph it ourselves. First we'll take the equation and we'll divide through by the number 36. When we divide each term by 36, we'll get one fourth x squared here. one ninth y squared here and 1 on the other side of the equal sign. So, we're going to ignore our first equation of the circle for now. We've taken this equation and rearranged it into this. Now, can you tell me what are the two x-intercepts? The x intercepts would be 2,0 and negative 2, 0. Great solving if you found those two. Remember for an x intercept, we're somewhere along our x axis, which means the y value must equal 0. So we plug in zero for the value of y, and then we can continue solving for x. Here we have x squared divided by 4 equals 1. So we're multiplying both sides by 4 to clear the fraction and then we'll have x squared equals 4. We'll take the square root of both sides, indicating plus or minus, so x can equal positive 2 or negative 2. Keep in mind that x intercepts are points, so we need to write the coordinates of the x intercepts. We'll have positive 2,0 and negative 2,0. Both the coordinates written in parentheses. So here's what we know so far. We took the equation of our ellipse and we divided it through by 36. We came up with this equation and we just found that the x intercepts were (2,0) and negative 2,0. So, we know these two points are on our ellipse. So, now that we found the x intercepts, I want you to see if you can find the y intercepts. What do you think those two would be? The y intercepts would be 0 comma 3 and 0 comma negative 3. Great work if you got those two correct. We know for y intercepts we need to let x equal 0. So we set the value for x equal to 0, and then we solve for y. 0 squared is simply 0, so this fraction with the 0 in the numerator simplifies to 0. Then we'll just have the rest of our equation. Y squared divided 9 equals 1. We'll multiply both sides of the equation by 9 to get y squared equals 9. And then we'll take the square root of both sides using plus or minus to get 1 y is equal to plus or minus 3. Notice that we had a y squared term. This led us to have two solutions for y. We'll have positive 3 and negative 3. We use positive 3 for one of the y-coordinates, and negative 3 for the other y-coordinate. The x-coordinates are both 0. So, these two points where x intercepts at 2, 0 and negative 2, 0. And these two points are the y intercepts. They're at 0, 3 and 0, negative 3. Now we can connect these points with a smooth curve and then we'll have our ellipse. So, for our circle, we had equal amounts of x squared and y squared and our radius was 6. So, we started from the center and we moved 6 units left and right and up and down to graph that circle. Now, for our ellipse, we're going to move two units left and right in the x direction. And three units up and down in the Y direction. These two points are the X intercepts, and these two points are our Y intercepts. Now, there's an easier way to graph this ellipse than finding the X intercepts and Y intercepts. Remember that this equation is the same as this equation, so let's graph this one instead. I'm going to get rid of this equation first and now I'm going to write this equivalent equation in its place. We'll have x squared divided by 4 plus y squared divided by 9 equals 1. And remember that we're basing this equation on the Pythagorean Theorem. So we can really think of 4 as 2 squared and we can really think of 9 as 3 squared. We could have graphed this ellipse by looking at these two numbers. The squared number underneath the X squared term tells us to move two units left and right from the center. So, since this is a two squared, we move two units to the right from the center, and two units left from the center. The squared number under the Y squared term tells us to move three units up and three units down from the center. This gives us a same four points and we are able to graph our ellipse. In general this is the equation we use for an ellipse, centered at the origin. Notice that there is no number added or subtracted to the x or to the y. So, the center would be at 0, 0. Now what I have gone ahead and done is added this equation into decimals/g. And I've created sliders, or adjustments, for the values of a and the values of b. Notice that if a and b are both 1, we get a circle centered at the origin. This is the idea that we'll have equal amounts of x squared and y squared, and the radius would just be 1. Now, if I increase a, we stretch in the x direction 1 unit to the left and 1 unit to the right. This gives me an ellipse since I have more X squared than I do Y squared. And, we could keep stretching our ellipse. We could have an A value of 3, an A value of 4, or an A value of 5. Since the A value is underneath the X squared term, that's the direction it stretches in. In order to stretch the ellipse vertically up and down, we want to adjust the b value. We can make the b value be 2, or 3, or even 4. And notice that if we bring it up all the way up to 5, again we'll have a perfect circle. Since we have even amounts of X squared and Y squared. This is why it's helpful to identify the A value and the B value to graph an ellipse. The A value tells us how far we should move from the center left and right, and the B value tells us how far we should move from the center up and down. Now that you've seen the general form for an ellipse, what do you think the center and the values for a and b, would be for this equation? Put the center here, put the value of a here and put the value of b here. This ellipse would be centered at the origin and it would have an a value of 6 and it would have a b value of 4. Great thinking if you got each of these correct. We know the center is 0,0 since this fits the general formula for our ellipse. There's no number next to the x inside parenthesis and there's no number next to the y inside our parenthesis. So we know our ellipse is centered at 0, 0. To find the a value we want to take the square root of this denominator of 36. And the square root of 36 equals 6 which means we go 6 units in the left direction and in the right direction. Remember the a term indicated which way we move in the x direction. Since the a number is directly underneath the x squared term. For b, we just need to take the square root of 16, which equals 4. So, to get two other points on our ellipse, we move 4 units up from the center, and 4 units down from the center. This gives us four easily identifiable points, and we can connect our ellipse. Remember that this was our general formula for an ellipse centered at the origin. So we need to find the square root of 36 and the square root of 16. I think it's always more helpful to write these as perfect squares if you can. Comparing the equations like this, we can quickly see that the value of a equals 6 and the value of b equals 4. So, here's a different ellipse. What do you think would be the center for this ellipse? What do you think the a value is and what do you think the b value is? Keep in mind that for an ellipse, the easiest way to find these values is to set this equation equal to one. For this equation, the center is at O,O the a value is 10 since we moved 10 units in the x direction, left and right. And the b value is 5 since we moved vertically from the center 5 units up and 5 units down. Now if you're stumped about what to do first, remember that we want this to equal one, so we should divide our equation through by 400. So, we'll take our equation and divide each term by 400 4 divides into 4, leaving us with 1X squared in the numerator. And 4 divides into 400, leaving 100 in the denominator. For the second term, 16 divides into 16 one time, and 16 divides into 400 25 times. So, we'll have 1Y squared, divided by 25. And finally, on the other side of the equals sign, we'll have one, since 400 divided by 400 equals one. Now we're looking at an equation that fits our general form when the ellipse is centered at the origin. The center is 0, 0, since there's nothing next to the x and nothing next to the y. We simply just have x squared and y squared. Now, the a value is the square root of this number. So, the a value must be 10. And the b value is the square root of this number. So b must be positive 5. If it helps you, you can rewrite the denominators as perfect squares. This easily lets you find the a value and the b value. So, we took this equation, and we changed it to look like something else. We've changed the equation to look like this. Let's graph this one to make sure they're identical. So, so far we have our old blue ellipse just like from before that represents this first equation. And you can see that I'm on it since it's become bold, since I've clicked on it. Now if I take our equation and I set it equal to 1, we have the same exact ellipse. We moved 10 units in the x direction, left and right, and 5 units in the vertical direction, up and down. And we can even write the equation in this form with 100 as 10 squared and 25 as 5 squared. And if I set this equal to 1, I get the exact same elipse. These three equations are written in different forms, but they're all equivalent. Let's take another look at the original ellipse we first encountered at the start of the lesson. We knew that this ellipse was centered at the origin 0, 0, in that we moved two units left and right to get a point and three units up and down from the center to get two more points. But, not every ellipse is going to be centered at the origin. Sometimes they can be elsewhere. Just like we could shift circles, we could also shift ellipses. So, if I wanted to graph this one, I would notice that the graph would shift up one whole unit. Remember, when we replace y with y minus a number, the graph really shifts up that many units. And instead of just shifting up one unit, I could also shift it up two units. We could shift it up three units, four units or even five units. The key thing to remember is that this sign is the opposite of the direction the ellipse moves. So now let's say if we are looking at our original lips and we want to move it down instead of subtracting from y we'll add to y. So if we add 1 to y, we'll get a shift downward. Our entire orange ellipse moved down one unit. And we get this new blue ellipse. And I could continue shifting it further down by adding a larger number, like two, or three, or four and so on. So we know adding or subtracting the y makes a graph, or an ellipse move up or down. So to move a graph left or right, we'll have to add or subtract to x. So again, notice that I have my original graph, and this time I'm going to subtract 1 from x. If I subtract one from x, I'll get this graph. Notice that all the points on our ellipse shifted one unit to the right. Here's just a few of the points that you can see that all shifted one unit to the right. And if we wanted to, we could shift two units to the right, three units to the right, or even four. And again, notice that this is a subtraction sign. So if it's a negative here, we're really moving to the right. But if it's a positive here, we're really moving to the left. So this new equation would be our original orange ellipse, just shifted one unit to the left. And notice that we have plus 1. A plus 1 really shifted it to the left. So plus 2 would shift it 2 units to the left. And plus 3 would shift it 3 units to the left. Based on what you think about moving an ellipse, what do you think would be the center for this ellipse? When you think you know the center, enter it here. This ellipse would be centered at 2, negative 1. Good thinking if you found this point. This would be the basic ellipse centered at the origin. So, first we want to subtract 2 from x. And remember, subtracting 2 moves the ellipse to the right 2 units. Now, we just want to add 1 to y. And when we add 1 to y, our ellipse really shifts down one unit. So, again, here was our original ellipse, centered at the origin. That would be this equation. And then, we shifted it two units to the right, since we subtracted 2, and then we shifted it one unit down, since we added 1 to y. Remember that these numbers are the opposite in the direction. So, you might think negative 2 would shift our ellipse two units to the left. But in fact it shifts our ellipse two units to right. Likewise with y, we might think our ellipse would move up one unit, but it turns out our ellipse moves down one unit. This is the same idea that we saw for circles, and it goes against our intuition. You want to be careful about it. So this is the general formula for any ellipse. The center doesn't have to be at the origin and the values of h and k determine what our center is. Notice too, that if our center is the origin, then the value of h would be 0 and the value of k would be 0. If we subtract 0 from x, we'll still have x. So we'll just have x squared over a squared plus y squared over b squared equal to 1. This is the first general formula we saw for any ellipse centered at the origin. I mean, this was the second general formula we saw for any ellipse centered at h comma k. Keep in mind that if these signs are negative then both the values of h and k will be positive. Whereas these signs are positive then that means the values of h and k are negative. So, let's see if you can put that general formula to use. What do you think would be the center for this ellipse, and what do you think would be the values of a and b? Enter those three values here. This ellipse would be centered at 2, negative 1. Nice work if you got the center. The a value was 3, and the b value was 6. Even better if you got all three correct. We know that the center is at 2, negative 1, since this is a minus 2 and this is a positive 1. Since we subtract two from x, we really move two units to the right from the origin. Then we move one unit down since there's a plus 1 with the y term. Remember we move in the opposite direction of what we think. So, now that we know the center is here, we can use the values of a and b to get four other points. To get the value of a, we take the square root of 9, which equals 3. And to get the value of b, we take the square root of 36 which equals 6. We know that we need to move left 3 units and right 3 units from the center to get two other points on our ellipse. We can also move six units up and six units down, to get two more points on the ellipse. Now if you haven't quite got it, that's okay, try this next one. What do you think for this ellipse? Where's the center? And what's the value of a and the value of b? This ellipse would be centered at negative 2 negative 3 would have an a value of 4 and a, b value of 2. Great work if you found all 3. For the center we take the opposite signs of what's next the x and the y in the parenthesis. Ellipse so for x we'll have negative 2 for the x coordinate at the center and negative 3 for the y coordinate of the center. Remember this really shifts an ellipse centered at the origin two units left and then three units down. So, this is how we know our center is here. Next we take the square root of 16, which is our a value. Remember a squared is always underneath the x squared term for ellipses. And to find b, we take the square root of the denominator of the y term. So, the square root of 4 equals 2. From our center we can move four units left and right to get these two points on our ellipse. And from our center we can move two units up and down to get two additional points on our ellipse. And if we look closely at the points that are vertically aligned with the center, we can see that one point is two units above the center and another point is two units below the center. What about this equation? Where do you think this center would be, and what are the values for a and b? Now keep in mind that this equation is not set equal to 1, so what do you think you could do to make the equation be equal to 1. This ellipse would be centered at negative 1 comma 3. It'll have an a value of 1 and it would have a b value of 5. Nice work if you got these 3 correct. We can find this center by looking at the x squared term and the y squared term. The x is a plus 1 x to it so that means the x coordinate of the center will be negative 1 and the value y has a negative 3 or subtraction of 3 next to it. So, this means that the y coordinate of the center is positive 3. Always keep in mind that the values of h and k for our center are the opposite of these two signs. This will always be true for circles and ellipses. So, now we need to find the values of a and b. So, what we should do is take our equation and divide through by 100. That will set our equation equal to 1. So, here's my original equation and now we're going to divide each term by 100. A 100 divided by a 100 equals 1, so this will simplify. An then we have 4 divided by a 100. Well 4 divided by 4 equals 1. An 4 divided it into 100, equals 25. So, we'll have 1 in our numerator, with the y minus 3 squared divided by 25 and the denominator. I don't write the 1 here because it's just multiplication, 1 times any expression is itself. And then finally, on the right hand side, we'll just have 1. Now we want this equation to look like this one. But notice I don't have an a squared term, I don't exactly have a fraction here but really I do. Remember we can divide any expression by 1, dividing by 1 will give us this same exact expression. So, now I can rewrite these denominators with 1 squared equally 1 and 5 squared equaling 25. This is how we get the values away and b, and thinking back to our center. The value of h really needs to be negative 1 in order for the equation to have positive 1. And the value of k would need to be 3 since we'll have 3 here. So, we can see that our center is at negative 1, 3. Then we move 1 unit left and right to get 2 points on our ellipse. And we move 5 units up and down to get two more points on the ellipse. Highlighting these points, we can see that these two are 5 units above and below our center, and that this point is 1 unit to the right of our center. Now desmos isn't showing this point, but that's just because it only shows us certain points of interest. Now, there a reason why it's only showing us these points of interest. And when you learn more about ellipses, you'll discover why these points are so important. For this one, it happens to be a y intercept. And, in fact, desmos will also tell us the x intercepts. These other two points are really important and perhaps you can do some research to figure out why. We know this equation produces an ellipse. We start at the center at the origin 0, 0, and then we move two units left and right in the x direction, and then we move three units in the y direction, up and down. This gives us four main points on our ellipse so that way we can graph it easily. We're going to use this knowledge of ellipses to help us graph a hyperbola. A hyperbola is another type of conic section and its equation looks more like this. Notice that the difference between a hyperbola equation and an ellipse equation is this subtraction sign here. For ellipses, we have addition between the x squared term and the y squared term. But for hyperbolas, we have subtraction between the terms. One is positive and one is negative. To graph this hyperbola, we're going to start by graphing it as an ellipse. So we'll start with this shape that we already have. Now, those first four points were helpful for graphing the start of our elipse and they're also going to be helpful for graphing our hyperbola. We'll draw a dashed rectangle around our ellipse so that way we can start graphing our hyperbola. Once we have the rectangle, we'll draw dash lines across the diagonals. Now, this minus sign is like a knife. It's going to cut open our ellipse. And then we're going to pivot these two halves outward. These two points will become the vertices of two branches that will face this way and this way. So notice, I'm going to take off my ellipse now and graph my hyperbola. Notice how the branches of this hyperbola approach the diagonals from the rectangle. The same is true for this branch. The ins of the graph approach the dash line, and this will always be true for our hyperbola. The ins will always stretch towards the diagonals that we created from before. Now one other important piece of information is that the x square term comes first here. This means that our parabola opens to the left and to the right. And you might be wondering, how can I get a parabola to open up and open down? Well it turns out we just have the y squared term conversed. For example if I make this y squared term positive here and we subtract off x squared divded by 4 here we'll have a different type of hyperbola. Since the y squared term comes first this hyperbola will open up. And it will open down. I'm going to take this hyperbola off for now, and then we'll start over with our basic ellipse. Now, I could switch the order of the y squared and the x squared terms, since addition is commutative. So, I'm just going to move it this term to the right side of the y squared divided by 9. I notice when I make this change, I still have the same exact ellipse as from before. We started with our center at the origin and we went two units left and right from that center and three units vertically up and down. This time to get this hyperbola, we'll do one thing different. We'll still draw our box around our ellipse and we'll have the diagonals to that box. Now we'll use these two points as the vertices for the two hyperbola branches. They'll face this way. The subtraction sign is going to be the knife that cuts our ellipse in half, and then the top and bottom of the ellipse will fold outward to create our hyperbola. So taking away our ellipse, we get this as our hyperbola. And again notice that we have the y squared term coming first, which means the parabola opens up and it opens down. Now that you've seen a couple of hyperbolas, try creating some on your own. Try changing the values of the denominators and see how the hyperbolas change. Have some fun and then continue on with the practice. Try graphing this hyperbola. What do you think is its center? What do you think's the a value and what do you think is the b value? Remember to draw the graph on your own, and then compare your result in the solution video. This hyperbola is centered at 0,0. It has an a value of 3 and a b value of positive 5. Nice work if you got these correct. Now, let's check your graph. We'll start with an ellipse. So, this ellipse will be centered at the origin and will go 3 units in the x direction. And 5 units in the y direction. We'll draw a dashed box around our ellipse, so that way we can start to draw a hyperbola. Next, we'll draw in our two diagonals across our rectangle. We want to extend these along the graph, so that way we can draw in our hyperbola branches. So now we're ready to cut the ellipse open. We turn each of the pieces out. And then we can see we have our hyperbola. And notice again, that we can get our rectangle, just by looking at the a value and the b value. We start with the origin and we move 3 units in the x direction for a and 5 units in the y direction for b. This hyperbola opens to the left and to the right since the x squared term comes first. Whichever term is positive, the x squared term or the y squared term. That will determine which way our hyperbola opens. Since the x squared term here is positive, then we know that it opens left and right. Now, just as with other conic sections, hyperbolas are not necessarily centered at the origin. What do you think would be the center for this hyperbola based on what you know about circles and ellipses. I think you can figure this out. This Hyperbolas is centered at three negative 2, has an a value of two and a b value of 3. Great thinking if you got all three correct. We know the center is at three negative two, since we have the opposite sign in the parenthesis. So this is our h and this is our k. H will be positive 3, the opposite sign of negative 3, and k will be negative 2, the opposite sign of positive 2. This is our center for our hyperbola. Finding a and b are the same as just before. We just take the square root of this to get a, and the square of this to get b. Now we're ready to graph our hyperbola. We start by graphing an ellipse with a center of positive 3 and negative 2. So, positive 3 on the x, negative 2 on the y, here's our new center. We go two units in the x direction and three units in the y direction to get the remaining points. But we're not really graphing an ellipse, we're graphing a hyperbola. So we draw a dashed rectangle around our ellipse and then we draw in the 2 diagonals. We know our hyperbola is going to open to the left and to the right, since the x squared term is positive. So we split our ellipse in half, and then we pivot the two sides outward and extend them to the diagonals. This gives us our hyperbola. For a hyperbola that is not centered at the origin, we can use h comma k as its center. This actually gives us two equations for hyperbolas. This equation has the x squared term coming first. So the parabola will open to the left and to the right. H and k will be our center. And the value of a will be how many units we move in the x directions. And the value of b will be how many units we move in the y direction. This allows us to graph our ellipse, and then draw the box around it for our rectangle. Other hyperbolas however open up and down. These hyperbolas start with the y squared term. This term will be positive instead of being negative. But notice that h and k have been switched here. H is still with x and k is still with y. But k comes first in this equation and h comes second. So, you want to keep this mind when finding the center if the hyperbola opens up and down. The h value will be this value and the k value will be this one. This might be confusing but you can always remember that anything associated with the x direction will be with the variable. For example, the x coordinate of the center will be h. That's with the x. And the way we move in the x direction, a will be here. Underneath the x squared term. Likewise, anything having to do with the y or the y direction will be next to the y variable. The y coordinate of the center k is here, and the way we move vertically up and down, the value of b is here. These equations aren't that different. And really the things with a squared and b squared work exactly the same as before. The only difference is that this hyperbola opens left and right since the x squared comes first and this parabola opens up and down since the y squared term comes first and is positive. The other subtle difference is hk. Here they're in order, h and then k. Here we need to be careful and get the h next to the x. And then get the k that's with the y. Let's try graphing some more hyperbolas. I want you to graph this equation on your own paper and then tell me what's the center and what's a and what's b. Just like before, we'll check to see if your graph matches this one and the solution. This hyporbola is centered at 1,2 and has an a value of 4 and a b value of 3. Good work if you got all three. We'll start by graphing the ellipse. The ellipse will be centered at 1,2. So we go 1 unit right and 2 units up. Next we move 4 units left and right in the x direction from the value of a, then we move 3 units up and down and the y direction for the value of b. Now we're ready to start constructing our hyperbola. We draw a dashed rectangle around our ellipse and then we connect the diagonals. We'll cut open our ellipse and then we'll flip the two halves outward, and this will give us our hyperbola. We want to make sure that the ends of the hyperbola are stretching out to the diagonals. This curve will always approach this dash diagonal and this dash diagonal. It's one of the special properties for hyperbolas and you should look into it more if you're interested. Try graphing this hyperbola. What's the center? What's a? And what's b? The center will be at negative 1 negative 2 the opposite signs of these and a value is 3 and the b value is 2. Nice thinking if you got these right. Now let's check out your graph. We'll start by graphing an ellipse and the center is at negative 1 negative 2. We'll go one unit to the left, and two units down. Now we use our a and b values to get the other points. Three units in the x direction for a, and two units in the y direction for b. We carefully construct our rectangle around our ellipse. This is going to start our hyperbola graph. Next, we draw on our two diagonals across the rectangle. And now we're ready to draw on our hyperbola. Our hyperbola will open left and right, since the x squared term comes first. So we'll cut open our ellipse, and we'll split the two halves outward. We'll stretch the ends of the hyperbola to our diagonals, which gives us our final graph. Keep in mind, that the reason this parabola opened left and right was because the x squared term came first. It was positive in this case. We use the opposite signs for h and k to get our center, negative 1 and negative 2. These are some of the most common pit falls students make. So you want to make sure you pay close attention to signs and which term comes first for hyperbolas. Try drawing a graph for this hyperbola. Draw your graph first and then indicate the center, the value of a and the value of b, just like before. The center is at negative 2,3, since we take the opposite signs in the parentheses. The opposite of positive 2 is negative 2, and the opposite of negative 3 is positive 3. This is our h and our k. The value of a is the square root of 25, which equals 5, and the value of b is the square root of 36, which equals 6. Great work if you got these three correct. Now, what's even more important is your graph. Let's see if yours will match mine. We'll start with an ellipse, as usual and it will be centered at negative 2, 3. Negative 2 in the x direction, positive 3 in the y direction. We move 5 units left and right from the center, and 6 units up and down from that center to form our ellipse. Now, we draw in our dashed rectangle around our ellipse, and then we draw in the two diagonals. Now we're ready to create our hyperbola. The x squared term comes first. So we know our hyperbola will open left and right. We'll split our ellipse in half and we'll flip the two ends out, so that way we get the graph of our hyperbola. Nice work if you got this graph. Now how about here. Try giving me a sketch of this graph, then tell me it's center, the value of a and the value of b. This hyperbola was centered at 4,2, has an a value of 2, and a b value of 4. Nice thinking if you got these correct. Now, the key is that y squared comes first, so this means our hyperbola will open up and down. Remember, too, that k is this value, and h is this value. H is always with x, and k is always with y. So, our center is really at positive 4 and positive 2. We take the opposite signs of the terms in the parentheses. To get the value of a, we just take the square root of 4, since it's underneath the x squared term. The square foot of 4 equals 2. And to get the value of b, we take the square root of 16, which equals 4. We start by graphing the ellipse. The ellipse is centered at 4, 2. So, we go 4 units right, and 2 units up vertically. Now we need to go a and b, we need to find the four other points on the ellipse. From the center we move 2 units in the x direction, and we move 4 units in the y direction. 2 is for a, and 4 is for b. Remember that a is always associated with the x squared term, this square root of 4 here. And b is always associated with the y squared term. In this case, the square root of 16. Now, we're ready to draw in our dash rectangle and the two diagonals, so we can draw our hyperbola. We need to keep in mind that our ellipse is going to open up and down, since y comes first. It's the positive term. So, we're going to cut our ellipse and them flip these two ends outward. When we do that, we get our entire hyperbola. Now, let's make sure this whole picture makes sense. Our hyperbola is centered at 4,2 and then we moved 2 units horizontally for our rectangle, an 4 units vertically. Here's your last type of hyperbolic graph. What do you think would be this center and the values of a and b. Keep in mind that you want to set this equation equal to 1. What do you think you need to do here. This hyperbola will be centered at 0, 5 give, it will have an a value of 8, and a b value of 4. Good thinking if you got these three right. We'll start by dividing each of these terms by 64. When we divide this term by 64, we'll simplify it by 1 16th. This term divided by 64 turns into negative x squared divided by 64. And finally, 64 divided by 64, equals 1. Our y squared term comes first, which means that our hyperbola needs to open up, an it needs to open down. There's no number next to the x variable, so that means the center, or the x coordinate of the center, is 0. The y coordinate of the center would be positive 5. This is the k it is always next to y. The a is the number that we move in the x direction so that's underneath the the x squared term. It's the square root of this number. Since the square root of 64 equals 8, we know the value of a, it must be 8. For the value of b, we simply take the square root of 16 which equals 4. We start by graphing the ellipse with a center at 0, 5 and then we move 8 units in the x direction for 2 points. And four units in the y direction for two more points. Next we draw our dash rectangle around our ellipse. Then we draw in the two diagonals. And since we know the y squared term is first and is positive, we know our hyperbola opens up and it opens down. So we cut our ellipse horizontally. And we flip over these two pieces. Ultimately, this produces our hyperbola. As a quick check, we can make sure that these two points are four units vertically away from the center. Our center is at 0, 5, so yes, this point is four units away vertically, and this point is four units away in the other direction. The last conic section we'll learn about is a parabola. Parabolas only have one part to their graph. Circles on the other hand have two parts to their graph. And the reason they have two parts is because we have an x squared term and we have a y squared term. Ellipses also have two parts to their graph. And again, notice that the equation for the ellipse has an x squared term and it also has a y squared term. And finally, we saw the hyperbola. The hyperbola also has two parts to its graph. And notice, in the equation, we have the x squared term and we have the y squared term. But a parabola only has one piece. The parabola can either open up or down, or the parabola can open left or right. Each of these is one graph. Of one parabola. These two equations are the general equations that describe parabolas. This one describes parabolas that open up or down, and notice that it's y equals. This equation describes parabolas that open to the left and that open to the right. And notice that it starts with x equals. Throughout this lesson, we'll learn more about each of these values and what they do to the graph. But for now, let's take a look at the most basic parabola. y equals x squared. The most basic parabola has the equation y equal x squared. Now, we can tell that the center, or really the vertex of this parabola is at the origin, 0 comma 0. The parabola opens in the upward direction, and it has an a value of 1. The a value is simply the number that's in front of the x squared term. Since it's not listed, we know that the coefficient is a 1. Another interesting part about parabolas is that they're symmetric. If there's a point on the left hand side of the graph, then there's another point equally distant away from its axis of symmetry on the right hand side of the graph. For example, we have the point negative 3, 9. Then, on the other side of the graph, we have the point 3 comma 9. We also have the point negative 2, 4. And on the right side of the graph, we also have the point 2 comma 4. Two units in the horizontal direction right, and then four units vertically up. The lowest point, or the turning point for our parabola, is the vertex. It's at the origin, 0 comma 0. Now we could make an x and y table and create a table of values to get our graph. But an easier way to get a couple points on the graph is to look at the a value. We're going to zoom in on this parabola. We can find the basic shape of this parabola by looking at the a value. The points to the left and to the right of the vertex will be exactly 1 unit above the current point. So we move one unit left, and one unit up. We move one unit up since the a value is one. And then to get the symmetric point, we move in the opposite direction. One unit right, and one unit up. So, we can see that we have a point of negative 1 comma 1, and a point of 1 comma 1. Let's make another graph and see some comparisons. For the graph y equals 2x squared, we also get a parabola. This parabolas vertex is at the origin, its still 0 0. But what's different the a value. Now the a value is 2. So to get the basic shape of this graph, we'll move 1 unit 3 and 1 unit left from the vertex. Then we'll go a units up in this case 2 units. So 1 unit left and 2 units up. This gives us our first point at negative 1, 2. Then we can move 1 unit right. And 2 units up to give ourselves another at 1, 2 and here is a 3rd parabola y equals 3x squared. Notice that the turning point of the vertex where this parabola is still at 0,0, the origin. To find other points on this purple parabola we're going to use our a value. We can move 1 unit left and 3 units up. This gives us coordinate of negative 1, 3. To find another point on the graph, we'll go the opposite way. We'll go 1 unit right, and this time 3 units up. This gives us a point of 1 comma 3. The a value is always a quick way to get 1 point that is to the left of the vertex. And 1 point that is to the right of the vertex whenever parabola is in the form of y equals. Notice 2 that as the a value gets bigger our parabola stretches vertically or in other words it gets more narrow. Let's consider a different equation, y equals negative 5x squared. We know the vertex for this parabola will be at the origin, 0,0. We can easily see that, since every we plug in an x value of zero, zero squared will be zero. And zero times negative 5 would give us a y value equal to zero. But what are some other points on the graph. What I'd like you to do is use the a value to determine two other points that are on this parabola. When you think you've got them, check them off on the graph. The two other points on this parabola are negative 1 and negative 5 and positive 1 comma 5. Good thinking if you checked those 2. What's so different now is that our graph is going to open downward since we have a negative value in front of the x squared. To find our basic shape, we'll start at 0, 0, the vertex. Next we'll move one unit left and five units down. This gives us our first point of negative 1, negative 5. Remember, the a value will always tell us how many units to move up or down when our parabola is in the form y equals. And since our parabola is symmetric about the y-axis, we can also go one unit to the right, and five units down. This gives us our other point of 1 comma negative 5. One of the key takeaways from this exercise is that a parabola in the form y equals will always open upward, or it will open downward. If the a value is positive, like in these three, we know the parabola opens upward. But if the a value is negative, like in these two graphs, we know the parabola will open downward. Based on what you've seen so far, in which direction do you think this parabola would open? Would it open up, down, to the left, or to the right? This parabola would open to the left. Great thinking if you got that one right. One of the key things to recognize is that this equation is in the form x equals. Parabolas that are in this form, either open to the left or to the right. Since the a value is negative 1, we know the parabola will open to the left. If I had a different parabola like x equals 3y squared, then we can see that, that parabola opens to the right, since the a value here is positive. Let's take this one away for a moment and just concentrate on the first parabola. Again, its vertex is at 0,0. This is the turning point for the parabola. Notice also that there's an axis of symmetry that goes through the vertex. It means that if there's a point on this side of the graph, then directly across from it is another point. For example, we know the point negative 4,2 is on the graph. So, we could also know that the point negative 4 negative 2 is also on the graph. If we zoom in on our parabola, we can also find other points by moving from the vertex. Since our parabola's in the form, x equals. This time, we'll move up and down one unit. Next, we'll move a units in the x direction to find the two points. So, a is negative 1, so I can go one unit up and one unit left. This gives me the point negative 1,1. And if I want to find another point I can move one unit down and one unit left to get this point negative 1 negative 1. Let's also see this with this graph. x equals 3y squared. If we zoom in on this purple parabola, we can see how to get these points of three one and 3 negative 1. We start at the vertex and go one unit up and one unit down, since we're in the form x equals. And this time we're going to go three units right since the a value is positive 3. So we'll go one unit up and three units right, one unit down and three units right. This gives us the other 2 points on our parabola. We can also shift parabolas, or move them around on the coordinate plane. Let's take a look at our original equation, y equals x squared. If we add 1 to the equation, we can see that the entire graph shifts up 1 unit. Notice before that the vertex was at 0,0. And now, our vertex is at 0, 1. By adding one right here to the end of our equation, we really increase the y values from before by 1. This is why the entire graph, the orange graph, shifts one unit up. So a point that was at negative 1, 1 is now at negative 1, 2. And a point that say was at two comma four is now at two comma five. Notice how the y value increased by one. We can also make this graph go up by two units, three units, four units, or even eight units. So, we can see that adding a constant term to the end of our parabola, will shift it up. So, if we subtract a number, it will shift it down. The parabola, y equals x squared minus 3, is our original parabola, only it's been shifted down three units. And again, notice that the orange parabola had a vertex of 0, 0. And this new parabola has a vertex of 0, negative 3. We could even change this to be a negative 5, so that way the orange parabola would shift down 5 units. And again, notice that the vertex of this last parabola is 0, negative 5. We can see that the y coordinate of the vertex comes from here, this negative 5 is right here on our vertex. The x coordinate of our vertex is 0. And it turns out it comes from solving this binomial or setting this binomial equal to 0. X minus 0 is still x, so we know that this term is really still x squared. And if I graph this equation, I can see that there exactly the same. I'm just writing this in a different form. So, now we can quickly see where this vertex comes from in our equation. The 0 is here, and the negative 5 is here. Now, we've seen shifting the parabola up and down. Well, we can also see a parabola shifted left and right. So, we know by adding 3 on the end, we could shift the parabola up 3 units. To shift the graph left or right, we're going to change this binomial. If I subtract 1 from x, it really moves the graph one unit to the right. Now the vertex is here. Notice that the sign of the x coordinate of the vertex is opposite from the one in here. For a y equals parabola, we can set this binomial equal to 0 to find the x coordinate of the vertex. So in this case, x would equal one. The y coordinate of the vertex is simply found by the number that's added or subtracted at the end of the equation. So, based on the shifting and what you know about a vertex for a parabola. What do you think is the vertex for this parabola? When you think you've got it, type that answer here. This parabola will have a vertex at negative 3, negative 4. 3 units left, and 4 units down. We can start from the basic graph y equals x squared. We know that that vertex is centered at the origin. If we subtract 4 from this equation we know that the entire parabola shifts down four units. Essentially all the y values from the original graph that we had before shifted down four units. Notice to that the y coordinate of the vertex is now negative 4. And we see this reflected in the equation. We have a negative 4 tacked on to the end. So we know that the y coordinate of the vertex is negative 4. And to find the x coordinate of the vertex we take our binomial and we set it equal to 0. Solving for x will get x is equal to negative 3, the x coordinate of our vertex. Let's try another one like that. Where do you think would be the vertex for this parabola? Write that answer here. This parabola's vertex is centered at 5 comma negative 2. Great work if you've found this as the vertex. We start with the basic graph y equals x squared. And we can shift all the points down by subtracting 2 from that equation. Think about the values of y and how they change. If you know that y equals x squared is, then subtracting 2 from x squared will give you a y value that is decreased by 2. Next, we shift the graph to the right by 5 units, by subtracting 5 from the x term in the binomial. When finding the x coordinate when y equals negative 2, we know that this part of the equation, our binomial squared, would have to equal 0. We know if x minus 5 squared equals 0, then we would have 0 minus 2. So y would just equal negative 2. That's the y coordinate of our vertex. So this means that we set our binomial equal to 0 to get an x coordinate of our vertex, have x equals positive 5. Notice again that the sign is different for the x coordinate of our vertex than the sign in the binomial here. Our vertex has an x coordinate of positive 5, but the binomial has the number negative 5. But the sign of the y coordinate is the same. The y coordinate the vertex is negative 2, and we see negative 2 at the end of our equation. What we've been looking at for the last few examples is vertex form. Vertex form indicates the vertex of a parabola, h and k. For parabolas that open up and down, the h value is the opposite sign of the one in the binomial, and the k value is the one on the end. Remember we can always find the x coordinate of this vertex by setting the binomial equal to zero. And if we look at the number in front of the squared term, we can determine whether or not the parabola opens up, or if the parabola opens down. If the a value is positive or greater than 0, the parabola opens up. And if the a value is negative, or less than 0, then the parabola must open down. Horizontal parabolas are a little bit more tricky. These parabolas start with x equals and either open to the right or to the left. We find the vertex by looking at h and k. Notice here that h is added on the end or subtracted in some cases. And k is the number inside the binomial. Notice that h is now the number on the end, where k is the number in the binomial. We can find the y coordinate of the vertex by setting this binomial equal to zero. The x coordinate of the vertex, for horizontal parabolas, will just be the number, added or subtracted, on the end. And finally, if the a value was greater than 0 or positive, we know the graph opens to the right. Whereas if the a value is less than 0, or negative, then our graph opens to the left. Let's see if you can use that knowledge to find the vertex of this parabola. Where do you think it is? And if you think you've got it, type it in here. The vertex of this parabola is at the point 1 comma 2. Great work if you found this point. Keep in mind that this parabola is in the form x equals, so we know that it's going to open either to the left or to the right. Since the a value is a positive 1, we know that the graph opens to the right. Now this number is important for the vertex its really these 2 numbers. Since this is a horizontal parabola in the form x equals this number is the x coodinate of our vertex its positive 1. To find the y coordinate of our vertex, we simply take our binomial, and we set it equal to 0. So we'll have y minus 2 equals 0. Adding two to both sides, we get y equals positive 2. This is the y-coordinate of our vertex. And notice again how it matches the vertex form for a horizontal parabola. This is h and this is k, 1 comma 2. Our vertex. Here's a chance for you to see what you know. What do you think is the vertex for each of these parabola's and which direction do you think each parabola opens? Enter the vertex here for this parabola and then choose whether it opens to the left to the right upward or downward. And if you have trouble with these, I highly recommend playing around in decimals. Try to create your own graphs and look for patterns. Maybe just start with some y equals graphs, and then play around with some x equals graphs, and see how they change. That should help you out if you get stuck. Good luck. Here are the solutions. Great work if you got most of these right. For these two parabolas, we know that they're going to open up or down, since they're in the form y equals. We look at these numbers or the a value to determine whether or not they open up, or whether or not they open down. Since the a value is negative here, we know that this parabola must open down. And since the a value is positive here, we know that this parabola opens up. To find the vertex of this parabola, we simply look at the h and k value. h would be positive 4, by setting this binomial equal to zero. And k would be positive 2. The number added on the end. For this parabola, the vertex is 1,3. Again, we set the binomial equal to zero. So that way, we get an x coordinate of x equals 1. The y coordinate of the vertex is the k value, or just positive 3. These two parabolas here open left or right, since they're of the form x equals. By looking at the a value, we can see that one of them is negative, and the other one is a positive 1. This means that the negative 1 must open to the left and that the positive 1 must open to the right. Remember, negative a values for x equals parabolas make the parabola open to the left, whereas positive values of a for x equal parabolas make the parabola open to the right. And finally, to find the vertex for this parabola, we look at the value of h here and the value of k here. H is simply positive 2, our x coordinate of the vertex. And our y coordinate of the vertex is positive 1. We set this binomial equal to 0, to get y equals 1. And we find this vertex in a similar way. Here's the h value for our vertex. The x coordinate is positive 2. And here's the y value for our vertex, its negative 3. Remember we set the binomial y plus 3 equal to 0 and solve for the y coordinate of this vertex. Now, not every parabolic equation we encounter will be in vertex form. Here's another parabolic equation. Notice that we have an x squared term, but we just have a single y term. Remember, all parabolic equations either have an x squared term, or they have a y squared term. They can't have both. Based on what you know so far, which way do you think this parabola opens? Does it open to the left? To the right? Up? Or down? This parabola will open upward. Good hinking if you chose up. Now we haven't even covered this yet, so don't worry if you didn't get it right on your first try. But what I wanted you to recall is that the number in front of the x squared term is the a value. This tells us about the parabola's direction. Since a equals two and is positive, we know the parabola will open up. And since the parabola was in the form y equals, we already knew that the parabola opened up, or it opened down. So left and right weren't really good options there. Now, comes a better question. Can we graph this parabola? Well, the equation isn't in vertex form. So, we'll need to do something different. We know the vertex form has a perfect square in it. So, what if we completed the square for the x terms, so that way we could get a perfect square? Essentially, we want to change this equation, so it looks like this vertex form. I can group these x terms together, and then we can add an amount in order to complete the square. But, since we don't want to complete the square unless the coefficient of this x squared term is positive one, let's factor out two from both of these terms. Now, I haven't completed the square yet but I did factor out a two here and here. This left me with two times the quantity x squared minus 8x plus 33 on the end. I'm just leaving a spot here in order to complete the square soon. If we were to complete the square here, what number would we put here in order to have a perfect square? Type that number in right here. We would need to add 16 in order to complete the square. Remember that to complete the square, we always add the amount b divided by 2 squared. The b value here is the coefficient in front of the x term or negative 8, so b divided by 2 would be negative 4, and when we square this result we get 16. So, we add 16 in order to complete our square. Now, notice that we added 16 in order to complete the square for these two terms. But the 16 is inside of these parentheses, and there's a factor of two on the outside of the parentheses. This means that we didn't actually just add 16 to the right side of our equation. How much did we really add to the right side of the equation? Enter that number here. We've really added 32 to this equation. Good work if you found the number 32. We take 16 and we multiple it by the coefficient of the factor in the front which is 2 so we know we have 2x squared here. Negative 18 x here and positive 32 here. We need to be careful when we complete the square when there is a factor that is not 1 in front of our expression. We didn't just add 16 to complete the square, we really added two times that amount or 32. If you think about distributing the positive 2 it should make a lot of sense. Now here's the important part, our equation started off balanced, and then we changed it. We tried to complete the square, by adding an amount. And in this case we didn't just add 16, we really added 2 times that, or 32. So, we need to do something in order to get this equation back and balance. Since we added 32 to the right, we could also add 32 to the left, but I really don't want to do this since eventually I just want to get y alone or isolated on one side of the equation. So, what operation should we perform here and the same operation here in order to make our equation balanced? As a hint think about what you would need to do in order to make this equation not change. Well if we add 32 on the left side of the equation, then we need to subtract 32 from the same side. This should make a total of 0 on the left hand side of the equation. And we'd be left with 2x squared like here, minus 16x here, plus 33 here. This is why these two equations are exactly the same. The other way that we can think about it is that if we add 32 on the right hand side of the equation, then we add 32 on the left hand side of the equation. We could just subtract the 32 to get the y alone, and we wind up with this equation. Since we want the equation to be in the form y equals, it's best to go ahead an subtract 32, from the same side that we add 32. We can just skip the step of adding 32 on both sides, so long as we subtract the 32, since we added 32 here. So we took our original equation and we completed the square. We added 32 to complete the square, which mean we needed to subtract 32 from the same side of the equation, so that way our equation remained unchanged, or it remained balanced. Now remember our goal is to take this equation and to write it in vertex form. Something that we can identify. So, what I want you to do, is to take this equation, and write it in vertex form here. I've already put y equals, so I want you to fill in the rest. Once you've written the equation, in vertex form, type in the vertex here. This is the equation in vertex form and the vertex is four comma one. Great work if you found these two. We simply rewrite this trinomial expression as a perfect square. X minus four squared equals this polynomial. We keep the factor of 2 in front. and then we just combine the like terms of positive 33 and negative 32 to get positive one. This equation is in vertex form, so here is our vertex. We have an h value of 4 and a k value of positive 1. So h comma k. Keep in mind that we find the h value by setting this binomial equal to 0. So x would equal positive 4. The k value is simply the number on the end, so it's positive 1. Now, let's see if you can do one on your own. What do you think is the vertex form of this parabola? I want you to write it here, and I've already listed the y equals for you. Once you have the equation in vertex form, also tell me the vertex. This is the equation in vertex form, and the vertex is at 2, 1. Good thinking if you found these two. Now, this one was pretty tough, especially since we had a negative 3 here. Let's work through it together. Our goal is to get a perfect square so that way we can put this equation in vertex form. So we're going to try and complete the square by adding some amount to our polynomial. I can't quite complete the square yet, since I have a factor of negative 3 in front of the x squared. We want this coefficient to be a one. This means that we can factor a negative 3 from these two terms, leaving us with negative 3 times x squared minus 4x. We can quickly check to make sure that if we distribute, we would get back with what we started with. We'd have a negative 3x squared here and negative 3 times negative 4x which is positive 12x. Now we're ready to complete the square. The b term is negative 4, so b divided by 2 equals negative 2. And b divided by 2 squared equals 4. We simply square this number. So, we need to add 4 in order to complete the square for this trinomial. But we didn't just add 4 here, we really added negative 12, 4 times negative 3. Again, think about the, shooting this negative 3 to each of the three terms, and we would wind up with this expression. Now we can't just go adding numbers to equations and changing them at random. Instead we need to keep things balanced. If we subtract 12 from an equation then that means we need to add 12 to the equation as well. This makes the equation balance. It makes it so that way it's not changed. We know this since that negative 12 and positive 12 sum to 0. So we're just changing what this equation looks like, but it's really the same exact equation. Now that we're here we're ready to write our perfect square. The perfect square for this trinomial is x negative 2. If we square this amount, we'll get this expression. Our negative 3 stays in front as the coefficient, and then we have negative 11 plus 12 on the end. If we combine the like terms on the end, we get a positive 1 here. This gives us our equation in vertex form. And finally, for the vertex, we have an h value of positive 2. And a k value of positive 1. Setting the binomial equal to 0 gives us the x coordinate of our vertex. And the k value, or the y coordinate of our vertex, is just positive 1. Now that we've seen how to graph and how to find the vertex, I want you to try graphing this parabola on your own. Now, one part of this is finding the vertex. The more important part is your creation of a graph. You can check the graph that you create against the one that I'll have in the solution video. When you think you've got a good graph, type in your vertex here and then we'll check in the solution. This parabola has a vertex at 2, 1. Great work if you found this. We start by completing the square. We want to add a certain amount in order to make this a perfect square. We'll need to add four in order to do that. And since we add four here, let's also subtract four. This keeps our equation balanced. Remember that to complete the square here, we always add b over 2 squared. The b value is negative 4, so b over 2 is negative 2, and that amount squared is positive 4. It's the amount we add in order to complete our square. Now we'll be ready to write this expression as a perfect square. The positive 5 and negative 4 will just stay on the end. Here's our perfect square. And here's our equation, simplified combining these two numbers. So the vertex is at positive 2 for the x coordinate, and positive 1 for the y coordinate. Our vertex is here, and we get it by setting this binomial equal to 0. And the k value, or the y coordinate of the vertex is k. It's right here, positive 1. Now that we have our vertex, we can actually plot two other points. The one right next to the vertex. Our a value is positive 1 so this means we move one unit left and right at the vertex and then one unit up vertically. That will give us two additional points. And if we zoom in on our parabola, we can see this more clearly. We move left one and right one from the vertex. And then we move a units in the vertical direction, in this case one unit up. So left one and up one and right one and up one. This gives us our points at 1, 2 and 3, 2. Once we have these two points we can draw in the basic shape of our parabola. That's how we get this graph. How about this parabola? What do you think would be the vertex for it? And try and create its graph. Remember, identifying the vertex is only one part of this problem. The graph is just as important, and it's up to you to make sure you get it correct. Take your time on this one, and be sure to check over your work. This one's a little bit harder. When you think you're ready to compare your graph, type in your vertex here and check out the solution video. This parabola has a vertex at 2,3 right here. Nice work if you got this correct. Just like before, we'll take our equation and we'll try to complete the square this time for the y terms. The b value here is negative 6, so b over 2 is negative 3. And b over 2 squared equals 9, the square of this number. So, we know we need to add 9 in order to make a perfect square here, but I can't just add 9 to an equation since I'll change it. So, if I add 9 here I should also subtract 9 that will make it balanced, I really added 0. We rewrite this part as a perfect square. And now we can just combine these two numbers on the end. This gives us an equation in vertex form. And notice that it's x equals, so we know the parabola will open to the left, or to the right. Since there's a positive 1 in front of our square term, we know that a is 1, so our parabola opens to the right. For a horizontal parabola, the x coordinate of the vertex is here. It's h. The y coordinate of the vertex is k, and it's here. It's positive 3. We can find the y value of the vertex by setting y minus 3 equal to 0. So, we know x is positive 2, and y would be positive 3. Now that we have the vertex lets figure out how to graph our parabola and know that it opens this way. The a value is always in front of the squared term. So, a here is still positive 1 so lets zoom in our vertex and figure out how to graph those other two points. Here is our vertex at 2, 3 and now we go a units in the x direction. So, we'll go 1 unit up and one unit down from our vertex. Then we'll go 1 unit right and 1 unit right. This gives us our two other points and 3,4 and 3,2. Here's your third parabola. Where do you think this vertex is? And then try and create its graph. Now, you want to pay close attention when you go to complete the square, since there's a negative 2 here. Also, think about the orientation of your parabola. Which way should it open? When you think you've got the graph and the vertex into the vertex here. And then check your graph in the solution video. This parabola will open down and it has a vertex at negative 1,3. Excellent work if you got this vertex correct. In order to find this vertex, we need to complete the square for these x terms. This x squared term has a coefficient of negative 2, so I'm going to factor that out from these two terms first in order to complete the square. So we'll have 2 two, times x squared, plus 2x, plus some unknown number. Now, this number is the number we'll use to complete the square. And the positive 1 will just stay outside on the end. The b value is positive 2. So, we know b divided 2 equals 1. And b divided by 2 squared equals 1 as well. This means that we'll need to add one in order to complete the square for these terms. But we really didn't just add one here, we really added 1 times negative 2, or a total of negative 2. Let's think about this in iterms of distribution. We have negative 2x squared, we have negative 4x and we have negative 2. Because we subtracted two from this equation, we really need to add 2 to make sure that it's balanced. We really add 0. This is why we have to put a positive 2 on the end of our equation here. Now, we're ready to rewrite this as a perfect square. That perfect square is x plus 1. We'll still have negative 2 out in front, and we'll have positive 1 and positive 2 added on the end. This gives us our equation in vertex form, so we can easily identify the vertex. We set the binomial equal to 0, to get an x value of negative 1. And the k, or the y coordinate of the vertex, is just 3. This is how we get the vertex of negative 1,3. It's right here. Now, to get the other points, let's use this a value of negative 2. I can zoom in one my vertex, and then we can see we move one to the left and one to the right, and two units down to get these other two points on our parabola. Since this parabola is y equals, we know we need to move negative 2 down from the vertex once we move 1 left and one right. This gives us our points of negative 2, 1 and 0,1. Notice how the y coordinate here and here are two less than the y coordinate of the vertex here. This is why the a value is so important when it comes to graphing parabolas, and makes our graphing much more simple. Here's the last parabola for this lesson. Try graphing it, and when your ready enter the vertex here. This parabola has a vertex at 1, 2. Excellent work if you figured it out. We want to start by factoring a negative 3 from these first two terms so we'll have negative 3 times x squared minus 2x. We'll leave a space in order to complete the square and then we'll have negative 1 on the end. The b value is negative 2 here. So, we need to add b over 2 squared in order to complete the square. B divided by 2 equals negative 1, and this number squared is positive 1. This means, we add 1 in order to have a perfect square here. But, we really just didn't add 1 here, we really subtracted 3. We'll have negative 3x squared here, positive 6x here. And negative 3 here. So, in order to make our equation balanced, we'll have to do the opposite of negative 3. We'll have to add 3 to the same side of the equation. This is so that we really add 0. We don't want to change our equation, we really just want to leave it balanced. We can rewrite this as a perfect square, writing x minus 1 squared to replace this trinomial. The factor of negative 3 stays in front, and then we combine negative 1 and positive 3 to get positive 2. This is our equation in vertex form. And we can see that the vertex is h, k. Positive 1 and positive 2. Keep in mind the y value were equal to 2, then that means that this entire expression would have to equal zero. Which means the binomial x minus 1 must equal 0. So, we set it equal to 0, which means x would have to equal 1. That's the x coordinate of our vertex. So, we have this for our vertex, and then we can get two other points by moving one left and one right of the vertex, and then three units down. We can see that more clearly here. One unit left and one unit right, and then three units down. That's our a value. So, we have the points 0, negative 1 on our parabola, and we have the point 2, negative 1. And, notice that these y coordinates are three units less than our vertex. Up to this point we've covered four different conic sections. We looked at circles then ellipses, hyperbola and finally parabola. We call each of these a conic section because they come from the intersection of a plane with a cone. So, here we have a cone and we have a plane that intersects it, creating this shape. Here's another cone that has a plane cutting straight across through it. And notice that this plane is horizontal to the base of the cone. For this shape, we have a plane cutting at an angle down to the side of the cone. And, finally, for this shape, We have a plane cutting through a double cone. So what I want you to do is match each of these conic sections with the picture that is represented by it. So if you think this shape is a circle, you would write a in this box. Good luck here. Here are the correct answers. Great job matching each one with its picture if you got them all right. We know that c is a circle since we'll have a perfect slice of our cone. And part of the reason that we create a circle is since this plane is parallel to the base of the cone. The radius from the center to any point on the blue circle will all be the same. For the ellipse, it's going to be b. Here we'll have a longer length this way than we will vertically this way. d will be our hyperbola since we see the two pieces that point away from one another and this leaves a to be our parabola. We just have one curved section that's cutting through the cone. So when we're determining conic sections, we want to look at the equation. We can tell by the equation whether or not the shape will be a circle, an elipse, a hyperbola, or a parabola. For the case of circles, they will always have the same amount of x squared and y squared. Meaning the numbers in front of x squared and the number in front of y squared will be the same. Even if I change these to 2 I still have a shape of a circle. And changing into 5 I still have a perfect circle. So let's go back to a perfect circle that has a radius of 10 units. We can change this equation to become an ellipse. All we need to do is make the coefficients of x squared and y squared different. For example, if I make this x squared term have a coefficient of four, instead of one, I get an ellipse. The key idea for circles and ellipses is that there's a positive sign in between the x squared term and the y squared term. The difference between them is that circles have the same coefficient whereas ellipses, have different coefficients. Here the coefficient of x squared is 4, and here the coefficient of y squared is 1. We usually just don't list the 1. But notice it's the same exact graph. Now if we want to turn this ellipse into a hyperbola. We'll want to change this addition sign to subtraction. Hyperbolas will always have a subtraction sign between their x squared term and their y squared term. So, changing this to a minus, we get our hyperbola. Remember, the minus sign is like the knife that cuts open our ellipse and inverts the sides so they point outward. And since our x squared term comes first our hyperbola opens to the left and to the right. They point in these directions. But let's see what happens when we make the x squared term negative, and the y squared term positive. We have subtraction between the squared terms, so we know this graph will end up being a hyperbola. And look, it is. The only difference is that now, our hyperbola opens up and it opens down. And that's because the y squared term comes first, it's positive. Whereas, the x squared term is negative. Now, there's one more conic to look at, the parabola. A parabola has x squared or y squared, but it doesn't have both. So in order to change this hyperbola into a parabola let's change y squared into just y. Now, I'm also going to change the value 100 to 10, so that way we can see the graph on here. And notice, when we change y squared to y, we get a parabola. The vertex is at zero negative 10, and the parabola opens upward. And here's how you can tell if a parabola will open up or if it'll open down. We can rearrange this equation and solve for y. So first I'll subtract negative 4x squared from both sides of this equation. This gives me negative y on the left, negative 4x squared on the right, and positive 10 on the right. Next I'll multiply every term by negative 1. This will give me 1y equals positive 4x squared minus 10. And we can easily see that all three of these equations represent the same graph. I could graph this one and I could graph this one and see that they all make the same parabola. Since this parabola is y equals we know its going to open up. Or it's going to open down. And since the coefficient on the squared term is positive, it opens up. Now, if we make this coefficient negative, the parabola opens down. So, when determining whether or not something opens up, or something opens down, you want to solve for the single variable first, and then look at the coefficient of the squared term. Is it positive or is it negative. So we've seen a parabola open up and down but let's see one that opens left and right instead of having the parabola be y equals let's make it be x equals so we'll make the x term be a single x variable. And the y term be y squared. Doing that we see we get a sideways parabola and it points to the right and again we know this parabola opens to the right since we can rearrange this equation to be x equals. First we'll add y squared to both sides so we'll get 4x equals positive y squared on the right. And positive 10 on the right. Next we'll divide every term by 4, to get x equals 1 fourth y squared plus 10 fourth. And when I graph each of these equations, I should see that they're all the same. Since this parabola is in the form x equals, we know it's going to open to the right or to the left. And since this number, this coefficient is positive 1 fourth. Our graph opens to the right. If instead we make it negative 1 fourth, our parabola will open to the left. So remember y equal parabolas open up and down. And x equal parabolas open right and left. The sign on the squared term tells us which direction that is. Up and right for positive. Down and left for negative. So now that we've reviewed all the shpaes that we've encountered so far, let's see if you can identify a couple of graphs. I want you to identify the type of conic this equation represents. Is it a circle, a hyperbola, an ellipse, or a parabola. Then if it's a hyperbola or a parabola, check all the directions in which it opens. This equation represents a parabola that opens up. Great work if you got that one right. If we divide each of these coefficients by 3, we'll get the equation y equals one third x squared, minus one third. Notice that the equation is y equals, and we have an x squared term. Since we only have an x squared term, and just a single y, we know it's a parabola. We don't have both x squared and y squared. Also, since this parabola starts with a y. And since it's in y equals, we know it's either going to open up or it's going to open down. We then look to the coefficient in front of x squared and see that it's positive. So hey, our parabola opens up. What do you think for this equation. Which of the conics would it be and if it's a hyperbola or parabola which direction does it open? This equation would just be an ellipse. Now you might have thought that it was hyperbola since we have a subtraction of y squared but remember we need the x squared and y squared to be on the same side of the equation. So if we add y squared to both sides of the equation we would get this one. We can see that there's a plus sign in between the x squared terms and the y squared terms so we either have a circle or no ellipse. And since we have different amounts of x squared and y squared we know that the equation represents an ellipse. What about this equation, which conic do you think it represents. This equation really represents a hyperbola. And it opens up and down. Nice thinking if you got that correct. Now remember, we want to get the x squared and y squared term on the same side of the equation. So, I'm going to subtract 2x squared from both sides of the equation. This will leave us with 18 on the right, and 2y squared minus 2x squared on the left. Since we have a subtraction sign between the y squared and the x squared term, we know the conic is a hyperbola. And since this y squared term comes first, we know that our hyperbola opens up and it opens down. We can put this equation into the general form that we recognize, by dividing each term by 18. We'll have y squared divided by 9 minus x squared divided by 9 equals 1. And just to be sure, I can show you that each of these equations represent the same exact hyperbola. The equations are just written in different forms. How about this equation? What conic do you think it represents. This conic section would just be a circle. Great work if you chose that one. Just like before, we want to get the X squared term on the same side as the y squared term. So we can add x squared to both sides of the equation to get this equation. Now, you might not be used to seeing, the y squared term come first, and in fact, we can reverse the order of addition since it's commutative. Two plus one would be the same thing as one plus two. So y squared plus x squared is the same as x squared plus y squared. And just to be sure, I'll show you each of these equations graphed, so we see that they represent the same exact circle. This is the first one, this is the second one, and this is the third one. All three circles are exactly the same. Here's your fifth conic, what you think this one represents? This equation represents a hyperbola that opens to the left and to the right. Now we might not recognize the hyperbola in this form. So, let's subtract y squared from both sides of the equation. This'll move the y squared to the left-hand side, so we'll have x squared minus y squared equals positive 9 on the right. We have subtraction between our x squared term and our y squared term, so we know this is a hyperbola. Further more, we know that this parabola opens to the left and to the right since the x squared term is positive. It's the one that comes first. Now it's not so much which one comes first, but it's really the one that's positive determines the direction. Since the x squared term is positive, we know it opens left and right. And just to be sure, I'll show you this graph to tell you that these graphs are identical. The equations represent the same hyperbola. Here's another one. What do you think this equation represents? A circle? An ellipse? A hyperbola? Or a parabola? This equation represents an ellipse. We want to move this negative 4 y squared term to the left hand side of the equation. So we'll add 4 y squared here and we'll add 4 y squared here. So we'll be left with 27 on the right hand side. And 3 x squared plus 4 y squared on the left hand side. We have addition between x squared and y squared, so we know we have either a circle or an ellipse. And since, we have different amounts of x squared and y squared, we know we have an ellipse. And just to check in Desmos, I'll show you that this graph is exactly the same. Alright try finding out what this equation represents. Choose the best choice here and remember if its a hyperbola or a parabola tell me if it opens right or left up or down. Check all that apply. This equation represents a hyperbola that opens to the left and to the right. I hope you've got the hang of this. We'll start by moving 2 y squared to the left hand side. So we need to subtract 2 y squared here and subtract 2 y squared here. This leaves us with this equation. We have subtraction between our x squared term an our y squared term, so we definitely know that the conic, is a hyperbola. Now to determine which direction it opens, we look at which term is positive. Well the x squared term is positive. So that's why we know our hyperbola opens left, an it opens to the right. Alright how about this one. What shape do you think this equation represents. This equation will be a parabola that opens downward. Great work if you got it. We know it's a parabola since we have an x squared term, but just a y term. We don't have y squared. Because we don't have both x squared and y squared, we know our shape will be a parabola. To figure out which direction the parabola opens, we need to solve for y. So, first I'll subtract 27 from both sides of the equation. We subtract 27 here and here, to get this new equation. Now we want to divide every term by negative 4 to get y by itself. So, dividing this by negative 4, we get y. Dividing this by negative 4, we get positive 27 divided by 4 and dividing this by negative 4 we get negative three fourths x squared. So since this equation is of the form y equals, we know that it's going to open up, or it's going to open down. Since the x squared term has a negative coefficient, our parabola opens downward. And, just to show you, this equation is the one I have shown graphed, this equation is still the same. And this one is identical as well. All three equations represent the same parabola that opens down. And for our final conic section what do you think this equation represents. Choose the best choice and then if it's a hyperbola or a parabola. Let me know which way it opens. This equation represents a circle. Nice job if you picked the circle. We know we have equal amounts of x squared and y squared, and if we move the 3y squared to the left hand side by adding 3y squared to both sides of the equation, we'll get this equation. We have equal amounts of x squared and y squared, so we have a perfect circle. And notice, too, that we could divide each of these terms by 3. When we divide the equation through via factor of 3, we'll get x squared plus y squared equals 9. This is a circle with a radius of 3 units. And just to be sure I'll show you that each of these graphs are exactly the same. For our final unit, we're going to start by exploring Inverse Functions. Inverse functions are a way that we can undo what we do to an input. For example, if we doubled a number the inverse of that would be dividing it by 2. Before we get into the fancy notation, let's just look at a mapping between two sets. Here are three ordered pairs. The first set is a, b and c. And the second set is 2, 3, and 1. A maps to 2, b maps to 3, and c maps to 1. We could also show this using a mapping diagram. Here's the first set, containing a, b and c. And here's the second set, containing the numbers 1, 2 and 3. We said a maps to 2, b maps to 3, and c maps to 1. Now, this would be considered a function, since every input has 1 distinct and unique output. In other words, every single output has one unique input that creates it. Now, let's consider a different function. This time this function will have the ordered pairs 2a, 3b and 1c. This function is the inverse function of this one. And we could express it with this mapping. Notice that here we had the inputs of 1, 2 and 3 here, here and here. Now these input correspond to different outputs. 1 corresponds to c, 2 corresponds to a, and 3 corresponds to b. Look carefully at these two functions and their mappings to figure out their relationship. What do you think is the relationship between a function and its inverse? Once you've taken some time to think about this, I want you to try and answer this next question. If f of x is this function of ordered pairs, what would be the inverse of this function? When you write your inverse function here, write is as a set with curly braces on the ends. And then write your coordinate pairs seperated by commas. The inverse of this function would be negative 1,5, 3, negative 2, and 2,6. Great thinking if you found these three coordinates. Now, what you want to notice is that the inputs and the outputs switch for the inverse function. In other words, notice how a, b, and c were always the input for the first function we looked at. Whereas in the inverse function, a, b and c were all outputs. Another way of thinking about it is that the x and y coordinate always switched. So, here for x I had a, and for y I had 2. In the inverse function the x value is 2 and the y value is a. This is also true for these other two points. The x value and the y value switched. The same was true for this last point. So, to find this inverse function we simply switch the x and the y values for each coordinate pair. That's how we wind up with this function. Keep in mind that inverse functions undo the original function. So, if I put in 5, I get an output of negative 1. So, to undo that, when I put in my negative 1 to my inverse, I want to get out the output of 5, the original input. Let's look at the inverse of linear functions. We're going to find the inverse function of f of x equals 2 x plus 3. We've seen functions like these before. This is just a linear equation that crosses the y axis at 0, 3 since the y receptor's 3. The slope of this equation is 2, so we'll rise 2 and then we'll move to the right one unit. Now this is all the way back to unit three when we first learned about lines. But now what we're going to do is we're going to undo these operations. We know f of x is the same thing as y. This is just the output. So, now, the first thing we need to do to find the inverse function is to switch x and y. If we switch the variables x and y, then we get this new equation. X equal 2 y plus 3. Now we just need to solve for y to get our new inverse function. so you tell me, what would you get for y if you solved for it? In other words, what's the expression over here that involves x? As a hint, it should be a fraction. Well to isolate y, we'll start by subtracting 3 from both sides. This will give us 2 y on the right side, and x minus 3 on the left side. Now we just divide both sides of our equation by 2 to get 1 y equal to x minus 3, all divided by 2. Great thinking if you found this expression. Now we really found the inverse function here. But notice that it's labeled as y. And that could get confusing since I already had a y up here. Which stood for my original function. Y was the output of this function. So in order to not confuse these two. Let's label this f inverse of x. So instead of having y equals the quantity x minus 3 divided by 2. We'll have f inverse of x equals x minus 3 divided by 2. Now, notice that this is actually a line too. If we divide 2 into each term, we'll have f inverse of x equals 1 half x minus 3 halves. negative 3 halves or negative 1 and a half is our y intercept. And slope hear would be positive 1 half. And I just want to caution you to be careful with this negative 1. This isn't an exponent like we normally think about it. This is just the notation for the inverse of a function. So if we take sum input x and we multiply it by 2 and add 3. To undo these operations we would have to subtract 3 first and then divide by 2. Now, that should make sense since we're just undoing the last operation we did to x and working backwards. So we need to undo add by 3, which is minus 3, and then we undo the multiplication of 2, which is divide by 2. Let's look closely at the graph of this function. And its inverse to see one more unique relationship. It's actually one we've already encountered. Here on this blue graph, I've graphed a line, y equals 2 x plus 3. We have a y intercept at 3. And a slope of up two units, right one unit to get our next point of 1, 5. Now, our inverse function was 1 half x minus 3 halves. Or we could have written the equation like this. X minus 3 all divided by 2. It's the same exact line. Notice that for this line, our y-intercept is at negative 3 halves, and the slope is positive 1, right 2. Positive 1, right 2. So again, this was our original function and then this on was the inverse. Now what I want to show you is this line y equals x. Here's the black line drawn in. Notice that the function and its inverse are reflected over the line y equals x. In other words if we fold this part over the black line, we would get this inverse function of our graph. And if we fold this part of the original function over our black line we get this part of the inverse function. If we look more closely at a point like 0.3, which is on our original function, we can find a corresponding point on the inverse function. This one's 3.0. Notice the x and the y coordinates have changed.They switched places. This is what's so unique about inverse functions. The x and y-coordinates always change. So if we choose another point in the graph, like negative 1.5, 0 for our function, we can find it on our inverse function. That would be 0, negative 1.5. And again, the x and the y-coordinate switch places. Even for a point like negative 4, comma negative 5, we can find that on our inverse. On our inverse function it will be negative 5, negative 4. That point is right here. So, this was one way that we could find the inverse function. First we switched the values of x and y, and then we solve for y and replace that with f inverse of x. Now there is a quicker way to find the inverse of a linear function. I could jet list out what I did to x. First I multiplied x by 2, and then I took that result and I added three. So, to undo these operations I would want to start with the results and do the inverse of this step. So, I start with the result, which is x, and I'm going to subtract 3 first. Then I'll take that result and divide it by 2. Notice that to find the inverse function, we first undo the last step that we performed for f of x. Then we work backwards and undo each of the steps before. We can see this for an input like x equals 1. We'll multiply the input by 2, which equals 2, and then we'll add 3 to that result, which equals positive 5. So, if this is a true inverse function. If I put in positive 5, I should get out the original input which was 1. So notice, we'll take 5, use that for the input of our inverse function. And first, we'll subtract 3, which equals 2. Next, we'll divide that result by 2, so 2 divided by 2, equals 1. So, notice how our inverse function undoes the operations that was performed on 1. Our original function with an input at 1 gave us an output of 5. And then our inverse function with an input of 5 gave us our original input which was 1. So, let's see if you can find the inverse function of f of x equals 6x minus 5. Write that inverse here. Here, the inverse function is x plus 5 divided by 6. Great thinking, if you found this inverse function. One way to find the inverse is to switch the x and y variables. Once we switch x and y, then we can solve for y. So, adding 5 to both sides, will get x plus 5 equals 6y. Then, we'll divide both sides by six, to get y equals x plus 5 divided by 6. And remember, our last step is to replace this y with f inverse of x, since this represents the inverse function. Now, the other way to reason through this answer is to think about what we did to x. We multiplied it by 6, and then subtracted 5. So we want to undo this subtraction of 5, and then the multiplication of 6. We always undo the last operation we performed. So first, we'll take x and add 5, and then we'll divide that quantity by 6. We'll do the opposite of multiplying by 6. This also will give us our inverse function. So now that we know the inverse function of this function is x plus 5 divided by 6. What do you think is the inverse function when x equals 2? You can enter that answer here. Here, the solution is 7 6ths, or 1 and 1 6th. Nice thinking if you found this fraction. Basically, we're just going to evaluate our inverse function at x equals 2. So we just plug in the value of 2, and for x. So 2 plus 5 equals 7. And I still have 6 for my denominator. So 7 6ths or 1 and 1 6th. Now, there was another way to solve this problem. If we remember that the x and y coordinates switch for the inverse function, then we can make the y coordinate be 2. In other words, we know the input for the inverse function would be 2. This means that it must be a y value for the original function. So, we could take our original function and let this output or this y value equal 2 and solve for x. Letting this f of x equal 2, we can now solve for x. We'll have 6x equal to 7 and then we'll divide both sides by positive 6 to get x equals 7 6ths. Since x is the input for the original function, we know this will be the output for our inverse function. Remember that the x and y coordinates will always switch for the function and it's inverse. Now, I know the second method is a lot longer for finding our answer, since all we really needed to do was plug in 2 into here. But it's worth conceptually noting, so that way we can understand that the inverse and its function always have the x and y coordinates switched. Try finding the inverse for this function. Write that answer here. Here the inverse is x + 4, all divided by +3. Great work if you found the inverse. We'll start by writing our function with the variables y for the output and x for the input. Now we want to switch x and y. This gives us a new equation that we can now solve for y to find our inverse function. First we'll add 4 to both sides to get x + 4 = 3y. Then we'll divide both sides by +3 to get y = (x+4)/3. We change y into f inverse of x to denote the inverse function. So here is our final answer. Now, what do you think would be the inverse function for this one? When you think you've got it enter it here. Now this wasn't just a linear function. This was a cubic function. And its inverse is the cubed root of x minus 1. Now that's great work if you found this solution. Again, we'll start by making f of x by y, our output. Now we're going to switch x and y. Now we have a function that we can solve for y in order to find the inverse. Now our goal is to get y alone, so first we'll subtract 1 from both sides of the equation, to get x minus 1 equals y cubed. Now we need to undo this power of 3. Well, I know cube-roots undo a third power. So taking the cube-root of both sides of the equation, I'll have one y equal to the cube-root of x minus one. Now, keep in mind this is our inverse function, so we take y and replace it with f-inverse of x. Here's our solution. Let's continue our work with functions. There are basic operations we can perform with functions. We can add them, subtract them, multiply them, and divide them. We can even do something called the composition of functions, and we'll look at that later in this lesson. For now let's start with these two functions: f of x equals 3 x plus 2 and g of x equals x squared minus 1. Remember that x is the input for our function. It's what we can change, and input any number in here. F of x is the output for this function. It's the result that we get when we plug in x. And similarly, g of x is the output for this function. It's the result we get for whatever number we plug in for x. So, based on what you know about evaluating functions, what is f of 2? Write that here. Then what's g of 2? Put that one here. And then use what you know about f of 2 and g of 2 to figure out this question. What's f plus g of 2? Write that one here. Now, I know we haven't covered what this means yet, but I think you can figure it out. F of 2 equals eight, g of 2 equals 3, and f plus g of 2 equals 11. Nice thinking if you got all 3 correct. To find the f of 2, we'll start by plugging the value of 2 in for X. So we'll have 3 times 2, which equals 6 plus 2, which equals 8. So when the input of the function x equals 2, the output of the function is 8. For g of 2 we'll use a similar approach. We'll plug in the value of 2 in for x, so we'll have g of two equals 2 squared minus 1. 2 squared equals 4, minus 1 is 3. So, we know that g of 2 is 3. And for this last one it just means we want to take the value of f of 2 and add it to the value of g of 2. We're wondering what's the sum of the outputs, when both functions are evaluated at x equals 2? Well, we know f of 2 equals 8 and we know g of 2 equals 3. So we're really just adding these two outputs together to get 11, and we can also see this on a graph. Here I've graphed f of x and g of x in Desmos. F of x is this straight orange line and g of x is this curved parabola. Notice that the f of 2, or the output for the orange function when x equals 2. Is positive 8 right here. If I zoom out, you can see that more clearly. And notice that the output for g of x, when x equals 2, is positive 3 here. So, we're just going to add the output here of 8 to the output here of 3. When we add the two outputs together, we'll get 11. So, in terms of a graphical interpretation, we could just add the two y values here together to find f plus g of 2. We would just add 8 and 3 to get 11. So, what do you think would be f plus g of 0? You can either evaluate these functions for 0, or you can use the graph. When you think you have the answer, enter it here. F plus g of 0 equals positive 1. Good thinking you found this number. We know that f of 0 equals 2, since when x equals 0, the function has a y value of 2. G of 0, however, is negative 1. When I plug in 0 in for this value of x for this function, we'll get a y value of negative 1. So, to find f plus g of 0, we simply added these two y values together. 2 plus negative 1, which equals positive 1. But we don't have to evaluate functions just the numbers. We could find f plus g of x. This would be the function of adding these two functions together for any number x. In other words I want to create a function so that way when I plug in that number into it, I always get f plus g of that number. I want to have a function that can quickly add these two outputs together. So what do you think is this function? Type it in here. F plus g of x equals x squared plus 3x plus 1. Great thinking if you found this function. To find this function, we simply want to add the two functions together. So, we'll have 3x plus 2 for f of x. And we'll have x squared minus 1 for g of x. So notice, here's f of x and here's g of x, we're just adding the two functions together. Write in the highest power first, of x squared plus 3 x plus 1. This is the result of adding these two functions together, f plus g of x. And let's see this on a graph as well. We have f of x, which is our straight line. We have g of x, which is our parabola. And then we have f of x plus g of x. It turns out that this is also a parabola. And remember before that we took f of 2, which that y value was 8, and we added it to g of 2, and that y value was 3. When we add the y values together here the value of 3 and here the value of 8, we get a new value of 11. Notice that the x coordinate for each of these points are all the same, they're all 2, but the y value for this point comes from adding these two y values together. So, this point came from adding f plus g of 2, but remember we also found another point, f plus g of 0. We found f plus g of 0 by adding the y coordinates for here together. We had 0, 2 on our orange graph, our f of x, And we had 0,-1 on our blue graph g(x). So, on our new graph f plus g of x, we have the value 0,1. Notice that the x coordinates are all the same and we get this y coordinate from adding these two y coordinates together. This is f of 0 and this is g of 0. Remember that if x equals 0, then the output for this function would just be 2. Since 3 times 0 equals 0, and we'll do that with positive 2. So we know this point is on the graph of f. Also, we know this point would be on the graph of g. When x equals 0, the output here is negative 1. So, if we want to find f plus g of 0, we simply add these two outputs together, and output of 2 and an output of negative 1, to get an output of positive 1. That's were we get this point from. And notice that this is actually represented for all values of x. Any input that we plug in here and here, we have their sum. This is another way we can think of their function using their graph. We've just seen, adding functions together. So, what do you think about subtracting two functions? What do you think is, f minus g of 2, and what do you think is f minus g of x? This should just be one output, or one number and this should be a formula or function that involves X. F minus g of 2 equals 5, and f minus g of x equals negative x squared plus 3 x plus 3. Great thinking if you found these two. To find f minus g of 2, we really just want to subtract the two outputs when the input for both functions is 2. So we just want to subtract the output of g when x equals 2 from the output of f, when x equals 2. We remember from before that f of 2 equals 8. This is the number we get when we plug x equals 2 here. And we can recall that g of 2 equals 3. This is the output for this function when x equals 2. So we really just want to subtract 3 from 8. So 8 minus 3 equals positive 5. And then to find this function we're going to take g of x and subtract it from f of x. So I've f of x first, which is 3 x plus 2, I'll write that here. Now I'm going to subtract this entire function g of x. That function is x squared minus 1. So distributing this in negative 1, we'll have 3 x plus 2 minus x squared plus 1. Remember that this negative sign will change the sign of both of these terms. Then we just add the like terms together to get this new function. We've added and subtracted functions. So now lets try multiplying functions. What do you think would be the value of f times g of 2? Keep in mind that this is a multiplication symbol. We'll see a different symbol soon that means something else. F times g of 2 equals 24. Great thinking if you found this number. When we find f times g of 2, we're really finding the product of these functions' outputs, when their input is x equals 2. We know f of 2 equals 8. And g of 2 equals 3. So we really just need to multiply these two outputs together. And what do you know, 8 times 3 equals 24, our answer. How about the division of functions, what do you think would be f divided by g of 2? Write that answer, here. Here the solution is 8 thirds, great thinking if you found this fraction. To find this number we'll have f of 2 divided by g of 2. We just want to take these two outputs when the functions inputs are x equals 2. We'll divide the output of g into the output of f. So f of 2 is 8 and g of 2 is 3, which is how we get 8 thirds. Now I want to caution you, this will only exist so long as this output does not equal zero. Remeber that fractions can not have zero in the denominator so, so long as the output of g of x does not equal zero then, f divided by g of some number will exist. In other words, we just want to make sure that this output for the function of g is not equal to zero. Let's try some practice. Here are two new functions. And I want you to find each of these. Remember that for these you should have 1 number as the final output, and here you should have a function that uses x. Good luck. Here are the solutions. Nice work if you got even half of these right. Now some of these might have been tricky, like the second one or even this last one. Let's walk through each of these to see how they're done. To find f plus g of 1, we need to add the outputs of f of 1 and g of 1 together. To find f of 1 we take x and set it equal to 1 for this function. So, if we plug in a 1 here and here in for x, then we'll get an output of positive 1. Next we need to find g of 1. To find g of 1 we let x equal 1 for this function. So, we'll have 3 times 1 minus 5, which equals negative 2. We have f of 1 equal to 1 and g of 1 equal to negative 2. So, we just add these two outputs together to get a final output of negative 1. To find the second one, f minus g of 1, we'll take the output from g of 1, negative 2, and we'll subtract that from the output f of 1, which equals 1. So notice I'll have 1 here minus negative 2. When we subtract a negative, we really add. So we'll have 1 plus 2 which equals positive 3. This is our output for f minus g of 1. For f times g of 1, we'll simply multiply these two outputs together. So, 1 times negative 2 equals negative 2. Now to find f divided by g of 2, we want to find f of 2 and divided it by g of 2. To find f of 2 we plug in 2 in for x. This would give us an output of 2. 2 squared equals 4, minus 4 is 0 plus 2 is 2. And for g of 2 we'll let the input x equal positive 2, which means we'll get an output of positive 1. We'll have 6 minus 5 which equals 1. Now we're ready to do our division, this is f of 2 and this is g of 2. We have 2 divided by 1 which equals 2. And finally to find f plus g of x, we'll simply add these two functions together. So, combining the like terms of x, we'll get one x and combining our constant terms we'll have negative 3. So, the overall function is x squared plus x minus 3, f plus g of x. Nice work on functions up to this point. Now let's try this thing called the composition of functions. The composition of a function is when we use two or more functions together. The notation looks like this, f of g of x. Notice that this symbol is not a multiplication sign. It's a small open circle, that means the composite of g functions. It kind of looks like fog. But we really read this as f of g of x. To see what's happening here, let's look at some function machines. F of x will be a function that triples a number and g of x will be a function that adds 5 a number. So, we're going to start by finding the f of g of 3. What this means is, we want to find the output of g of 3 and use that as the input for f of x. In other words, we'll get some output here for plugging in 3 into g. Then we'll take this output, and plug it into f to get a new output. So, we know g of 3, we simply take 3 and plug it in for x. So g of 3 would equal 8. So, now just really want to find the f of 8. We take the output of g of 3, and plug that into f, so letting x equal 8 for this function, we'll have 3 times 8 which equals 24. This is f of g of 3. Knowing this, what do you think would be f of g of 5? Enter that number here. F of g of 5 equals 30. Great problem solving if you found this answer. Remember when we find the f of g of 5, you really want to find g of 5 first. We want to find the output for g, when the input is 5. Then we take that output and we plug in that the input for f. So to find g of 5, we simply take 5 and plug it in here. So we'll have 5 plus 5, which we know is 10. So, the g of 5 equals 10. In other words, the output of the function g, when x equals 5, is 10. So now that we know this entire value, we can replace g of 5 with 10. Now we can just find f of 10. You want to find the output of the function f when x equals 10. I can remember that f was my tripling function. So, I'll have 3 times 10 or 30. So, we know the f of g of 5 equals 30. Our answer. In the last problem, we found f of g of 5. For this problem, we're going to find g of f of 5. We're going to reverse the composition. Sometimes you'd want to do this, since functions might rely on each other in different ways. So what would be the output of the final result for this composition? Write that answer here. This solution is positive 20. Great thinking if you found this number. To find g of f of 5, we first want to find the f of 5. We'll find the output for f when the input is 5, and then we'll take that output, and plug it in to g to get a new output. F was my tripling function, so I know the f of five would be 3 times 5 which equals 15. So we know the output of f when the input is 5 is 15. So we can replace this f of 5 with the number 15. So now we just need to find the g of 15 to get our answer. So when x equals 15, we'll plug that in here to get a new output. So plugging in 15 in for x here, we'll get 15 plus 5, which equals 20. That's how we know that g of f of 5 equals 20. When we first look at the composition of two function, we first evaluated a function, add a number. And then we took that output and plugged it back into a new function to get a new output. But we wouldn't want to do this every single time for every single different number. Wouldn't it be nice if we just had one function that could do the composition for us? This is what we're going to find right now. F of g in terms of x. To find f of g of x, we're simply going to take the entire function, g of x and plug it in for the variable x. We'll plug this function into the other function as an input. So anywhere that we see x in our function for f, we're going to replace it with x plus 5. So notice that I have 3x here. So instead of 3x, I'll have 3 times, x plus 5, my new input. Notice how I took the entire function of g of x. And I put it inside as the input for f of x. Distributing this positive 3 will get the function 3x plus 15. This is the composite function f of g of x. What do you think would be the composite g of f of x? This would be the reverse composite of the one we just found. Write that answer here. This function, g of f of x would be 3 x plus 5. Great thinking if you found this function. To find it, we take f of x, which is 3 x. And we plug it in anywhere inside of g where we see an x, here. So instead of having x plus 5. I'll have 3 x plus 5. Notice again, how f of x, this entire function became the input for g of x. There are no light terms here, so I simply drop these parethesis, to give myself the answer, 3 x plus 5. For your first practice problem, try finding f of g of 1, f of g of 2, and f of g of x. These two should be numbers and this should be a function containing the variable x. Here's the function for f of x and here's the function for g of x. Good luck on this one. Here are the solutions for 10, 1, and 9x squared minus 36x plus 37. Great solving, if you got all three of these correct. Now, if you only got one or two of these right, that's okay, too. These are not the easiest problems, and I'm sure you'll get it with more practice. To find f of g of 1, we first need to find the g of 1. So, when 1 is the input for g, we should get an output of negative 2. We get that simply by letting x equal positive 1. So, now, that we know g of 1 equals negative 2, we just need to find f of negative 2. We use negative 2 as the input for f. If we let x equal negative 2 for this function, here and here, then we can see that we'll get a total sum of 10. Negative 2 squared is positive 4. Negative 2 times negative 2 is positive 4, which makes 8, plus another 2 equals 10. This is how we solve the first problem. And we can use the same approach to tackle this problem, f of g of 2. Letting the x value equal 2 here, we get a g of 2 equal to 1. So we know that the output of g is 1 when x equals 2, so I can replace this g of 2 with the value 1. Now we just need to find f of 1. I'm letting the output of g when x equals 2, now be the input for f. Negative 2 and positive 2 sum to zero. So then I just have 1 squared, which equals positive 1. Now, we've done two calculations for f of g. But it would be so much nicer and easier if we just had one function to work with. An f of g of x function. So to find this function, we simply take g of x, and we plug it in anywhere we see an x and f. So notice that here and here, I've left spots for the x. We have something squared, minus 2 times something, plus 2. We're going to take g of x, which is 3x minus 5, and use that as our input. This is how we find a composition f of g of x. We have x as our variable, and we finding the output by plugging in g of x into this function. Squaring this binomial, we get 9x squared minus 30x plus 25. Then we'll distribute this negative 2 to get negative 6x plus 10, and a positive 2 on the end. There's no like terms with 9x squared, so I'll just list that here. Then we'll combine the like terms of negative 30x and negative 6x to get negative 36x. And finally, we'll add 25, 10, and 2, to get positive 37. This is how we get our entire composite function. Using the same two functions, this time I want you to find g of f of 1, and g of f of x. What are those two answers? Here, g of f of 1 equals negative 2, and g of f of x equals 3x squared minus 6x plus 1. Great solving, if you got these two right. For this first problem, we'll start by finding the f of 1. We need to find the output, when the input for f is 1. So letting x equal 1 here, and here, we'll have a new expression. 1 squared equals 1, negative 2 times 1 is negaitive 2 and then we'll have positive 2 on the end. Summing these together we get a final output of positive 1. So, we know the output is 1 when x equals 1 for f. So, we can replace f of 1 with it's value, 1. Now we just need to find the g of 1. Plugging in 1 in for x here, will get 3 times 1 minus 5, so that equals negative 2. This is how we find g of f of 1. Now to find g of f of x we're going to take f of x this entire function and we're going to plug it in for this x here. Remember f of x is going to be the input for g. So wherever we see x for g we replace that with x squared minus two x plus 2. We distribute the positive 3 to get 3 x squared minus 6x plus 6. Then we just combine the like terms on the end, to get 3x squared minus 6x plus 1, g of f of x. For this third practice problem, I've given you two new functions. Here's an f of x, and here's a g of x. What I want you to do is find g of f of 2, g of f of 0, and g of f of x. Good luck on this one. Here the solutions are, negative 23, positive 5 and negative 4x squared minus 6x plus 5. Excellent thinking, if you got all those correct. For this first one, we'll start by finding the f of 2. We'll take 2 and plug that in, for x in the function f. Doing so, we get an output of positive 12. So, when the input of f is 2, the output is 12. So, we just replace f of 2 with 12. Now we just need to find g of 12. We let g's input be 12, so negative 2 times 12 is negative 24, plus 1 is negative 23. This is how we get our first value. For the second problem, we want to find g of f of 0. So, we start by finding f of 0. You let x equals 0 for the function f, and then when we solve this, or simplify it, we get negative 2. So, we know f of 0 equals negative 2. So, we just replace this value with negative 2. So, letting x equal negative 2 for g, we get an output of positive 5. This is our second solution. And finally for g of f of x, we simply take the entire function f of x, and we plug it in as the input for g of x. So, wherever we see f of x, will replace that with 2x squared plus 3x minus 2, distribute the negative 2 will have negative 4x squared minus 6x plus 4. And then we'll have plus 1 on the end. Combing these two like terms will have our final composite function. When it comes to solving equations, we've learned a lot of different techniques to solve the quadratic ones. We saw the square root method, where we could take the square root of both sides of the equation. We used plus or minus to indicate the positive and negative root for this side. So here, x could equal positive or negative 3. We also could set the equation equal to 0 by subtracting 9 from both sides. This led us to factor. We could factor x squared minus 9 as the difference of 2 squares. So we have x minus 3 times x plus 3. Setting each factor equal to 0, we would get x could equal positive 3 or negative 3. So the square root method and factoring were two of the tools in our arsenal to solve this type of equation. We could even use the quadratic formula. If we subtract 9 from both sides. We'll have x squared minus 9 equals 0. This equation has an a value of 1. A b value of 0. And a c value of negative 9. If we plug in 0 for b in the quadratic formula. And a value of 1 and a c value of negative 9. This evaluates to plus or minus 3. Notice that any way we solve the original equation, we still get the same answers. Plus or minus 3 each time. But, how would you solve an equation like x cubed equals 27? What do you think x equals in this case? Type it here. You probably figured out that x must equal 3. And you know this based on the fact that 3 to the third power equals 27. So x must be 3. Good thinking if you got three. So, from the last problem, we were able to figure out that x equals 3. But what if the exponent is not known? What if we had this equation? This second equation is called an exponential equation. It's called that since the exponent is the variable, and it's unknown. But we can apply similar reasoning. Let's take 27 and write it with a base of 3. We can rewrite 27 as 3 to the third power. And since these two bases are the same. We know the exponents must be equal in order for the two numbers to be the same. So here we know that this x must equal this exponent. X must equal 3. In general, whenever we have x to the a, equal x to the b, we know that the exponents a and b must be equal, since their bases are equal. This works in general so long as x, which is the base, is not equal to 0 or 1. So for an equation like this, what do you think x equals? Write it here. For this exponential equation, the value for x equals 3. Great thinking if you found this number. We'll take 125 and write it with a base of 5. So we'll have 5 cubed on the right hand side and 5 to the x on the left hand side. Since these two bases are identical, we can set the exponents equal to one another. So x must equal 3. But what can we do for an equation like this? Notice that these two bases are different. We have 16 raised to the x power. And 4 raised to the 3rd power. The 16 and the 4 are different bases. So, for an equation like this, we want to try and get the bases to match. We want them to be equal. So, we can rewrite 16 with a base of 4. We'll have 4 squared which is 16 raised to the x. And the right hand side will stay the same. We know by the properties of exponents when we raise a power to a power, we multiply these powers together. This means we'll have four raised to the 2 x, equal to 4 cubed. Now, since both of the bases are equal, we can set 2x equal to 3. These exponents must be equal to one another. And finally, we divide both sides by 2 to get one x is equal to three halves. Now, this value for x should make sense in our original equation. We'll have 16 raised to the three halves here. And we'll have 4 cubed on the right hand side of our equation. We know that a fractional exponent really represents a root. So, this really says that we have the square root of 16 raised to the 3rd power. We know the square root of 16 equals 4. So we'll have four cubed equal to 4 cubed, so yes, this checks. You try solving this equation. Try rewriting these bases so that way they're the same, and then see if you can solve for x. Here, x would equal 4 3rds. Nice thinking if you got this number. Now, if this gave you some trouble, that's okay. We haven't had a lot of practice rewriting numbers with different bases, so let's see how it works. I know that both 27 and 81 are the result of raising 3 to a certain power. For example, 3 cubed is 27 and 3 to the fourth is 81. Notice too that now I have the same base. I have a 3 here, and a 3 here. But before I do anything, let's combine these two exponents. When we raise a power to a power, you multiply these two together. This is how we get 3 to the 3x equals 3 to the fourth power. Now, since these two bases match, we set these exponents equal to one another. So we'll have 3x set equal to 4 here, and then we'll divide both sides by 3 to get x equals 4 3rds. And if you check this in a calculator or by hand, you'll definitely see that 27 raised to the 4 3rds equals 81. We know this is true since the cube root of 27 equals 3. And 3 to the fourth power is 81. So yes, our answer checks and we can be sure that it's correct. Let's try another equation. This time, the bases are fraction. Now, don't be worried, it works the same way as before. We want to think about rewriting the right-hand side of the equation, so that way we have the same base of 3 5ths, as we do on the left. Once we have identical bases, of 3 5ths, we can set these two exponents equal to one another. So, try your best and see if you can find x. Here, x would equal positive 3. Great thinking if you found this. Now, the easiest thing to do is to think about writing this with a base of 3, and this with a base of 5. 27 is the same thing as 3 cubed. And 125 is the same as 5 cubed. Now that we have 3 cubed divided by 5 cubed, I can pull out a cube from the numerator and denominator and just raise 3 5ths to the 3rd power. Remember that when you raise a fraction to an exponent, you can apply the exponent to each part of the fraction. So this is an equivalent statement, for this. Now notice, we have the same base as 3 5ths, so we set the exponents equal. x equals 3. Try solving this equation. What do you think is the value for x here? You'll need to remember something about flipping bases. There's a certain type of exponent, or a value of an exponent, that can flip or do the reciprocal of a base. You'll use that to solve this problem. Here x equals negative 3. Excellent work if you found this number. This one was tough. Now, the first thing to notice is that 125 is 5 raised to some exponent and 8 is 2 raised to some exponent. So let's rewrite this numbers with bases of 5 for 125 and a base of 2 for 8. So, 125 is 5 cubed and 8 is 2 cubed. Now, I can pull out this third power to have 5 halves raised to the third. The left-hand side of the equation just stays the same. And notice we're so close for these bases to be equal. We have 2 5ths on the left, but 5 halves on the right. So, let's flip this base over. Let's do the reciprocal of it. Remember that to flip over a base, or to make 5 halves become 2 5ths, we raise it to a power of negative one. So, this exponent of 3 becomes negative 3. Now we have identical bases of two-fifths, so x must equal negative three. The key idea to solving this problem is to remember to flip over or take the reciprocal of a base. To do that, we need a negative exponent. now that you seen a variety of problems, let's get into practice. What do you think the solution for this equation? write that answer here For this equation, x would equal 3 halves. Great thinking if you found this fraction. Now we want to start by rewriting these with the same base. So I know 9 is 3 squared. And I know 27 is 3 cubed. We have a power raised to a power, so I'll multiply these two exponents to get 3 to the 2 x equal to 3 cubed. Now that our bases are identical, then we can set these exponents equal. So we'll have 2x equal to 3. Dividing both sides of the equation by 2, we'll have x is equal to 3 halves, or 1 and a half. How about this equation? What do you think is x? The solution for this equation is 5 halves, or two and a half. Nice work if you got this one right. Again, we want to use the key idea of rewriting these with the same base. I know 4 is 2 squared and I know 32 is 2 raised to the 5th. So, now I'm working towards having the same base. I want to combine these exponents by multiplying. So, I'll have 2 to the 2x equals 2 to the 5th. I have 2 raised to the 2x and 2 raised to the 5th. These must be equal, so I know that the exponents have to be equal, since the bases are the same. So, we'll have 2x set equal to 5. dividing both sides by 2 we find x is equal to 5 by 2 How about this equation. What do you think is x? W'll start by rewriting 9 16ths as 3 squared divided by 4 squared. We can do this since we know 3 squared is 9 and 4 squared is 16. Next, we're going to pull out our exponent of 2 from each part of the fraction. So we'll just have 3 4ths raised to the 2nd power. Now again, I'm so close to having these bases match. I have 4 3rds here, but I have 3 4ths here. In order to get these two bases to match, we need to flip this base. So, we'll use a negative exponent to do that. So, 3 4ths squared is the same thing as 4 3rds raised to the negative second power. Remember, this negative 1, or this exponent of negative 1, flips over our base. Now we have two bases that are the same, so we can set the exponents equal. X must equal negative 2. Try this problem, this might be the hardest one yet. What do you think x is? In this case, x must equal negative 4. Great work if you found this number. We start by taking our fraction of 1 divided by 81, and we rewrite it as 81 raised to the negative first power. Remember that this negative 1 will flip over our base. This would make us have our reciprocal of one divided by 81. So we know these two are equal. Next, we want to make these bases both be 3. So, I rewrite 81 as 3 to the 4th. We have a power raised to a power, so we can multiply these together to get 3 to the negative 4th. Now my bases match so the exponents must match as well. x equals negative 4. Here's our fifth and final problem for exponential equations. We have 16 raised to the 2x plus 1, equal to 64 raised to the x plus 3. Notice that 2x plus 1 is our entire exponent, and x plus 3 is our entire exponent. What do you think x equals in this case? When solving this problem, x equals positive 7. Now, that's great work if you got this one correct. Now, there were two ways to do this problem, we could write these two bases with a base of four or we could write these two bases with a base of two. I'll show you both methods, but first let's do the one with a base of four. I know 16 is the same thing as 4 squared. And I also know 64 is the same thing as 4 cubed. So we write each of these bases with a base of 4, raised to a certain power. These other exponents stay on the outside of the parenthesis. Now, we have a power raised to another power. Which means we can multiply these two powers together. The same is true on the right hand side. We have 4 to the 3rd raised to x plus 3. So, I'll multiply this power by this power here, and I'll multiply this power of 3 by the power x plus 3. Notice too that I'm putting the power in parenthesis. It's because I need to distribute this 2 to both of these terms. The same is true for the 3. We multiply the 3 by x, and the 3 by 3. Distributing the 2 here and here, and distributing the 3 here and here, we get these powers. Now we have bases of 4, and we can set these two exponents equal to one another. So, we'll have 4x plus 2, set equal to 3x plus 9. Next, we'll subtract 3x from both sides of the equation to get 1x plus 2 equals 9. Then, we'll subtract 2 from both sides of the equation to get our answer of X equal to 7. Now the other way to do this problem is to rewrite the base of 16 and the base of 64 with powers of 2. 16 is equal to 2 to the 4th and 64 is equal to 2 to the 6th. Next, we have powers raised to powers on both sides of the equation. So we can multiply these two exponents together, here, and we can multiply these two exponents together here. Now we have 2 raised to the 8x plus 4, distributing this 4. And we have 2 raised to the 6x plus 18, distributing this 6. Now that both bases are identical, we set these exponents equal to one another. So we'll have 8x plus 4 equal to 6x plus 18. We'll subtract 6x from both sides of the equation to get 2x plus 4 equals 18. Next, we'll subtract 4 from both sides to isolate the 2x. So, 2x will equal 14. Finally, we divide both sides by two to get 1x equals seven, our solution. Let's quickly review exponential equations. These equations are exponential since the unknown varibale was the exponent. What would x be in this case. Here x would equal positive 4. We would just rewrite 81 as 3 to the fourth, so we can set the exponents equal to one another since the bases are the same. Great work if you found 4. So we know, this is the fourth power. 3 to the 4th equals 81. And this form is considered to be exponential form. Now, another new form that we're going to talk about is logarithmic form. Log form involves a logarithm, and it's just another way of writing this equation. The key idea for a logarithm is that its base will be the same base in the equation above. So if we have 3 to the fourth equals 81, then we'll have log with a base of 3 set equal to 4. The answer to a logarithm is an exponent. Meaning if I take the log base 3 of some number, I'll get 4. Now it turns out that that number has to be 81. So we read this statement as log base 3 of 81 equals 4. We're asking ourselves, what's the exponent that we need to raise a base of 3 to, to get 81? Well, that exponent is 4. When we take the logarithm of any number, we'll always get an exponent. We use logarithms as a way to undo or reverse raising a number to a power. For example, if we had this exponential form, we can also write it in logarithmic form. This base becomes the base of our logarithm. So, we'll have log base two of sum number equals 3, the exponent. We know that this number must be 8, since 2 raised to the third power equals 8. The log base 2 of 8 is the exponent that we need to raise 2 to in order to get 8. So, in this case, log base 2 of 8 equals 3. In general, when we have something written in exponential form with a base raised to an exponent equal to a number, we can rewrite this in logarithmic form. We can make the base be the base of our logarithm, the number is the argument for a logarithm and the answer is the exponent. So log with base b of some number always will give us an exponent. I think the key idea in any of these situations is that the log of a number results in an exponent. The same was true for this example. We've already seen a lot of logarithms used in this lesson and we're only going to keep using them more. So I think it's time that you learn how to use mathquill to write logs in a pretty way. Now they should be pretty similar to some other functions you've seen written in mathquill. And of course you'll get plenty of practice using this. Let's say for example that I want to write log base 4 of x. Well, in mathquill here is what I would type in, \ log, then the spacebar, then to get down into this subscript space where the four is written, need to press Shift and then hold it down while you type the Minus sign key. That's what's going to shift you down here. Then you can write a little four just to the bottom right of the log. To get out of the space and get back to where we're going to write the input for the log press the Arrow key to the right. You could also press Tab instead then take your input which in this case is x. Now since you've seen one example I think it would make sense for you to try one yourself. How would you type log base 3 of x plus 4 in mathquill. In the box that appears down here. Try it out. You should be able to tell based on how it looks, whether or not it's going to be right. You could also use the box down here to try out writing some other log expressions, anything you can think of. Hopefully you were able to type this expression into MathQuill properly. But just in case it's giving you trouble, here are the keys you need to press to make it happen. To write log base 3 of x plus 4, we use something pretty similar to what we did up here. You type \ log and then space to type the word log. To move down to type the 3 as a subscript, hold down Shift while you press the button with the minus sign. Then you can enter your 3 and move back up here, press the Right Arrow key. They may need a parenthesis, an opening one. And then we have our input, x plus 4. Of course, MathQuill closes this parenthesis for you on its own. So you don't have to technically type another one, although you can if you want to. As I said before, you'll get a ton of practice typing in things like this in MathQuill in future lessons. So what I'd like you to do is write this equation in logarithmic form This can be written as log base 5 of 25 equals 2. Nice thinking if you found this. Remember that the base for this equation becomes the base of our logarithm, and that the logarithm of any number Is an exponent. This means log base five of 25 must equal 2. We're asking ourselves, what do we raise five to in order to get 25? That power is 2. Let's see if you can do another one. This time with a variable. What do you think this equation would be written in logarithmic form? Now, the key is we weren't really solving for x here. We know x equals 2 the 4th, or 16. We wanted to convert this to logarithmic form. So we'll use the base of 2, will be the base of our logarithm. So log base 2 of x equals 4, our exponent. If you always remember that this base becomes the base of the logarithm. And that this power becomes the answer to our logarithm, then you you know that this must be the argument of the logarithm. This is the number that we take the logarithm of. So 2 to the fourth equals x is the same thing as log base 2 of x equal to 4. So in general, we know that the logarithm of some number is really an exponent. We can take the log of any number a, so long as this argument a is greater than 0. The other condition we need is that b must be our base. And its gotta be greater than zero and not equal to 1. If b were 1, then a would have to be 1. And x could be anything since 1 raised to any power always equals 1. And just like before we see that our base is the base of our log rhythm. And the exponent is the answer to our logarithm. And a is the number that we take the logarithm of. For this question let's see if you can go in the reverse direction. This is in logarithmic form and I want you to write it in exponential form. What do you think that looks like. In exponential form, this would be 2 the fourth power equals 16. Great thinking if you got this equation. Keep in mind that our base on our logarithm is the base for our exponent. And the answer to a logarithm are the result of taking a logarithm of a number as an exponent, so this 4 is the exponent for 2. And then this should make sense, the 16 must go here since 2 to the fourth equals 16. Now another way to think about it,is going in the reverse direction. So, I'm going to right log base 2 of 16 equals 4 down here. We're in logarithmic form, so we want to send this base back up to be the base, and we want to send exponent back to its position. So, we'll have base of 2, raised to the fourth power. So, this is how we get 2 to the fourth equal to 16. We've just reversed the directions of the arrows from the first diagram that we saw. Either way you do it, you'll still get the correct answer. Just keep in mind your concept of which one's the base and then which one's the exponent. The result of a logarithm is always an exponent. Now, let's get in some practice. I want you to write each of these equations in logarithmic form. You should have one logarithm, an equals sign and then the right numbers in the right spots. Good luck. Also, be sure that you don't use commas when entering any numbers. Especially for this number, 100,000. You don't want to put a comma, right here. Here are the three solutions written in logarithmic form. Nice work, if you got all three right. Now, some of these were tough, so it's okay if you didn't get all of them right. Let's walk through each of them. For the first one, we'll have our base be 10. And we'll have our answer be 5. When we take the log with base 10 of some number, we'll get 5. It means that this number must be a 100000. The log base 10 of a 100000 equals 5. Its the power that we raise 10 to in order to get a 100000. For the second one we'll use the same process. We have a base of 4 so this is the logarithm with a base 4. The result of our logarithm equals negative 3. Its the exponent and this is one sixty fourth here at the argument for our logarithm. It's the number that we take the logarithm of. And finally, for the last one, we use the same technique. Our base of our logarithm is 2, since this base is 2. The result of our logarithm is x. This is the exponent. And we're taking log base 2 of the number 3 to get x. Now, keep in mind, in this last equation, we weren't really solving for x. We were just trying to write this in logarithmic form. It turns out that this number x is really equal to log base 2 of 3. Now the logarithm in your calculator can't get this number. The log in your calculator has a base of 10. But there are other ways to get bases of 2. We won't cover that in this course, but if you're interested, do some research. And finally for the last practice I want you write each of these in exponential form. You should have a base raised to a power set equal to some number. Good luck for each of these. Here are the three equations. Great work if you found each of these. We'll start by making this base be the base for our exponent. So 3 is written down here. The answer of a logarithm is an exponent. So, we know this 2 is going to be the exponent for our base 3. And this should make perfect sense since 3 squared equals 9. This is that number. For the second one, we'll repeat the same process. The base of our logarithm is 5, so 5 will be the base for our exponent. The answer of a logarithm is an exponent. So this 3 is the exponent for our base of 5. And of course 5 to the third equals 125. And finally we'll have a base of one fifth here, an exponent of negative 2 which equals 25. Remember that this negative exponent will flip over or do the reciprocal of this base. So, one fifth will become 5 and then we'll square it to get 25. Nice work if you got each of these right. Even if you got two of them right, fantastic. Now that you have an idea of what a logarithm is, let's explore their properties. Since the logarithm of a number is an exponent. Let's actually review the properties of exponents first, so that way, we can see how they apply to logarithms. What's the result of each of these operations? You should write your answer using x as the base, and then using some combination of a and b for the exponent. Here are the three expressions. Great work if you got each of these correct. When we multiply bases, we add these exponents together. So x to the a times x to the b equals x to the a plus b. And when we raise a power to another power, we really multiply these exponents. So to the a raised to the power equals x to the a times b. And finally, when we divide the same base, we subtract the exponents. We have x to the a minus b. Now, keep in mind that the logarithm of a number is an exponent. So, we know that these properties are going to have some sort of relationship with logarithms. Let's look at some examples and figure it out. The first property states that if we add 2 logarithm's together that have the same base then we can just multiply the numbers together. For example if we have log base 2 of 4 plus log base 2 of 8 then we know that equals log base 2 of 4 times times, which equals 32. Now, this statement should make sense. We know that log 2 of 4 equals 2. And we know that log base two of 8 equals three. So if we add those together, we should get 5. And sure enough, the log base 2 of 32 equals 5. So whenever you add logarithms that have the same base, you can really just multiply these arguments together. We just multiply x times y and then take the log of it. So let's see if you can extend this reasoning. If we have log base b of j, plus log base b of a, plus log base b of m, what would that equal, if we did the log base b of this expression? In other words what expression goes right here so that way the right-hand side of our equation is equal to the left-hand side of our equation. The left hand side is equal to the log base b of j times a times m. Remember when we add two logs with the same base, we can really just multiply these two numbers together. So we can simplify these first two logarithms to be the log of base b of j times a. Now we apply this rule one more time, and we multiply j times a by m. So we'll just have one logarithm, log of base b, of j times a times m. This is how we know this left-hand side is equal to this right-hand side. I use quotes here just to represent the same expression written here and here. The next property of logarithms has to do with exponents, or powers. When we have log base b of x to the a, we can really set that equal to a times log base b of x. In other words, we just take this exponent of a and we bring it down in front of our logarithm as a coefficient. In other words, if I had log of base 10 of a 100 to the 3rd power, we can rewrite this. We can bring this 3rd power down in front of our logarithm, so we'll have 3 times the logarithm of base 10, of 100. Now I usually put this in parentheses, so I understand that it's 3 times this quantity. And let's carry out the map on both sides of the equation to make sure that this makes sense. On the left hand side we'll have log of base 10 and then 100 to the 3rd power. Well 100 to the 3rd power is the same thing as a million. That's 1 followed by 6 zeroes. On the left hand side we'll have 3 times the log base ten of 100. Log base 10 of 100 is 2. We know this, since 10 squared equals 100. We're looking for the exponent that we'd raise 10 to, in order to get this number. So, we know 3 times 2 equals 6. And now let's check the left-hand side. We have log base 10 of a million. But we know a million is 1 followed by 6 zeros. So, that means we have to raise 10 to the 6th power in order to get a million. So yes, 6 equals 6. This is just one example of why this log property holds true. And finally, here's the last logarithm property we'll examine. If we subtract two logarithms that have the same base, then we can just divide the two numbers. So the log with base b of x minus the log of base b of y equals the log of base b of x divided by y. For example, the log of base 3 of 81, minus the log of base 3 of 9 would equal the log of base 3 of 81 divided by 9. We simply just divide these 2 numbers inside of our argument and take the log of it. And let's also be sure that this checks. We know the log of base 3 of 81 equals 4 since 3 to the 4th equals 81. We also know the log of base 3 of 9 equals 2, since 3 squared equals 9. And, finally, on the right-hand side, we'll have the log of base 3 of 81 divided by 9. We know 81 divided by 9 really equals 9, so we have log of base 3 of 9. Now we can just subtract here, so we get 2 equal to 2. We know log of base 3 of 9 is really just 2, as before. Now, using those log properties, I want you to try and write this expression with 1 logarithm. In other words, you should have the log with base b of 1 number here. Now it's okay if you're not entirely sure what to do, I just want to try your best. Think back to what it means when you add logs together and when you subtract logs together. Do them one at a time and I think you might get the answer. And again it's totally okay if you don't get there. You can always see the solution. This expression is equal to the log of base b of 5. Great thinking if you got this answer. Now, to start, I think it's best to think about this as two logarithms of base b of 5. If I write this line all out. I see I have log base b of 2 plus log base b of 5. Plus log base b of 5, minus log base b of 10. And notice that there are two log base b's of 5 here. Now I'm ready to apply my properties of logarithms. I know when I add two logarithms together that have the same base, I can really just multiply these numbers together. So have log base b of two times five. I'm going to do this one more time. I have one more addition here, so I can multiply these number times these numbers. So we have log base b of 2 times 5 times 5, minus log base b of 10. Now when we subtract logarithms, we take this number and divide it by this number. So we'll have log base b of 2 times 5 times 5 divided by 10. Now, you might be wondering why I didn't go ahead and multiply these numbers. And it's because I knew that I would have to simplify in the end. So I can see that 2 times 5 times equals 10, and that reduces with another ten in the denominator. These simplify to one. And this is how we get our final result of log base b of 5. If that first problem got you thinking, then try this one. Apply these logarithm properties again, and then write your final answer here as one logarithm. It turns out that this answer is also log base b of 5. Great work if you got this right. Again, I think it's best to think about splitting this up into two logarithms. Log base b of 5 and log base b of 5. We're adding three logarithms together right here. So, we can really just multiply these arguments together. So, we'll have log base b of 3 times 5 times 5. That's how we can combine these three logarithms through addition. And then we'll have minus log base b of 15 on the end. And finally to subtract two logarithms with the same base, we'll divide the second one into the first one. So we'll have log base b of three times five times five divided by 15. We have the factors of 15, which reduced to one, which leaves us with log base b of five. Now, there was one other way we could have solved this problem and it involves using the power rule. Let's see what that would look like. We could've started by moving this 2, backup as an exponent for the 5. So 2 times log base be a 5 would equal log based b a 5 squared. Now we can apply the same rules for adding logger items with the same base. And subtracting logarithms with the same base. When we add these 2 logarithms together, we'll have log base b of 3 times 5 squared. We simply multiply these two numbers together. And finally here, we'll divide this number into this number. So to combine these logarithms when subtracting, we'll have the log base b of 3 times 5 squared divided by 15. Notice that 5 squared is the same thing as 5 times 5. So we're really back to what we ended with last time. Our factor of 15 simplifies to 1 so we're left with log base b of 5. How about this third problem. Can you write this as a single logarithm? This expression is equal to log base b of 6. Great work if you found this logarithm. Now again, I think it's easiest to think about having two logarithms of base b of 8, and three logarithms of base b of 4. We know that to combine these three logarithms, or to add them together, we'll need to multiply these numbers together. So, we can express the addition of these three logarithms as the logarithm of base b of 6 times 8 times 8. Then we'll have the subtraction of log base b of 4, three times. When we subtract a logarithm, we really divide this number into this number. Keep in mind this is only true if the logarithms have the same base. So when I combine this logarithm with this logarithm, we'll really just divide 6 times 8 times 8, by 4, and we'll take the log of base b of that expression. These other two logarithms are still on the end. I notice that I'm going to have to repeat this process. So, if I take this logarithm with base b and subtract this logarithm with base b, I'm going to divide by another 4. So, we divide by another 4, and then I still have one more logarithm on the end. I need to subtract this logarithm of base b of 4 from this logarithm of base b of this expression. So, I'm simply dividing by another 4. This gives me a logarithm with one number. Now, I just need to simplify. I know 8 times 8 equals 64; and 4 times 4 times 4 also equals 64. So, these factors simplify to 1, which leaves me with log base b of 6. Our final answer. Try expressing this expression as a single logarithm. Be sure that your logarithm uses the base of a and uses the variables of r, s, and t. Good luck. This expression can be written as the log of base a of r times t cubed divided by s. Excellent work if you found this log rhythem. We can start by doing the division of r and s since we have log of a minus another log of a. We simply divide s into r and combine the logarithms together. Now we're going to use the power rule to bring this coefficient of 3 up as the exponent for t. So, 3 times the log of base a of t is equal to log of base a of t cubed. We're adding two logarithms together that have the same base. So we can just multiply r divided by s, times t cubed, here. We know t cubed is the same thing as t cubed divided by 1. So when I multiply these fractions together, I just multiply their numerators to get r times t cubed. And we multiply the denominators s and 1 to get s. Here's our single logarithm. How about this expression? How do you think you could write this using a log of base 10 with 1 argument? This expression equals the log of base 10 of x squared minus 16. Here's one logarithm and one expression. Now that's great reasoning if you figured this one out. You really just want to multiply the x plus four times the x minus 4. Since we have two logarithms added together with the same base, we just multiply these two arguments together. So we'll have the log of base 10 of this entire product. This is a difference of square pattern. A plus B times A minus B, so we'll know when we multiple we'll get A squared minus B squared. For x squared minus 16. We also want to be very careful. This might be confusing, because we're not sure if we're taking the log of base 10 of x squared, or the log of base 10 of this entire quantity. That's why it's best to use parentheses when you want to indicate that. Here I would think I am taking the log of base 10 of x squared finding this number and then subtracting 16. But really I want to take the log of base 10 of this entire number. Whatever x squared minus 16 turns out to be. That's just a word of caution when reporting your final answers. Be sure you know what you're taking the log of. As a challenge problem to you, try and write this expression using only one logarithm. Your answer should be in the form log of base b of some expression. Whatever this expression is, should involve the variables x, y, the number 5 and the other variable t. Now, there won't be a solution here since this is a challenge question, but I hope you figure it out. Now, let's wrap up this entire unit and our entire course by trying to solve some equations with logarithms. For this equation, we'll have log base 2 of 64 equals x. What I want you to do is to try and change this log form into exponential form, and then solve for x. You can write the value of x here. To write this in exponential form we'll have a base of 2, raised to the x power equal to 64. In order to solve for x, we need to rewrite 64 with a base of 2. 64 equals 2 to the 6th, so we have 2 to the x equals 2 to the 6th. Since the bases are equal, we know the exponents must be equal as well. So x equals positive 6. What about this equation? What do you think would be the value for x? For this equation x equals positive 3. Nice work if you found 3. We'll start by changing this equation into exponential form. We'll have a base of 3, an exponent of x set equal to positive 27. Next we'll rewrite 27 as 3 cubed, so that way our two bases will match. This must mean that x has to equal positive 3. Let's see if you can solve this equation. What do you think is the value for p, enter it here. P would equal positive 25, in this case. Great work if you found this number. Again, we'll start by converting logarithmic form into exponential form. So we'll have 5 as our base, 2 as the exponent, set equal to p. Remember when we have log of base 5 of p equal to 2. We know that 5 raised to the second power will equal p. So we really just need to evaluate 5 squared. 5 squared is 25, so p equals 25. Try solving this third problem. What do you think would be the value of m? Notice that m is the base here, and also we have a fraction. We have log with base m of 1 16th equal to negative 4. When you think you know the value of m, write it here. Now, this problem is more challenging. But we'll start it out just the same as before. We'll change logarithmic form into exponential form. We'll have m as our base, negative four as the exponent, and 1 16th as the result. So we know m to the negative 4 equals 1 16th. Since we're looking for this base m, we want this to look like something raised to the negative 4th power. If the powers match, then we know what m is. Well, we can rewrite 1 16th as 16 to the negative 1st power. Remember, a negative exponent makes a reciprocal. So 16 to the negative 1 equals 1 16th. Now we can rewrite 16 as 2 to the 4th. We'll have 2 to the 4th, which is 16, raised to the negative 1st power. Now, we can simplify this line. We know that when we raise a power to another power, we really multiply them together. So, 2 to the 4th raised to the negative 1 equals 2 to the negative 4th. Now, this exponent and this exponent are the same. So, we know that the bases must also be equal for these numbers to both be equal to one another. This is how we get a value for m equal to positive 2. Nice solving, if you got this correct. I know it was tough. Here's another problem where you're looking for the base, what do you think it is? Here, the only solution is positive 5. Nice work if you got this answer. We'll start solving this problem like before. We'll change our equation into exponential form, having the x as our base, 2 as the exponent and set equal to 25. We need to solve for x, so I must take the square root of both sides of the equation. When we take the square root of both sides, we must include the plus or minus symbol for the positive and negative root of 25. We know the square root of 25 equals 5, so x can equal positive 5 or negative 5. But remember for logarithms, the base of a logarithm must be great than zero. So, we know that this value x cannot equal negative 5. So the only value that would make this equation true would be positive 5. Now, we've already seen these in practice, but there are some helpful facts that we can use to solve logarithmic equations. The first is that if a to the x equals a to the y, then we know that x must equal y. We saw this earlier in the problem 3 to the x equals 27. We rewrote 27 as 3 cubed. And since we have 3 to the x equal to 3 to the y, we can set this exponent equal to this one. The next fact that can help us solve equations with logarithms is that if a to the x equals b to the x, then we know that the base a must equal the base b. We see this in a problem like this. X squared equals 5 squared. Well we know since these are both squares then x must be equal to 5. In order for this amount on the left, to be equal to this amount on the right. The last fact that we'll use is that if log of base b of n. Equals log base b of n, then we know that m must equal n. Since we're taking the log of base b, we know that these two numbers must be the same in order for the logarithms of those numbers to both be the same as well. We haven't seen an example like this yet, but we'll use this idea in the upcoming problems. Try using that last property that we just covered to solve this equation. What do you think the would be the value for x? In this case, x would equal 4. Great solving if you found this number. Since we have the log of 3 on both sides of the equation, we know that this number must equal this number. So, we'll have 2x minus 1 equal to x plus 3. We'll subtract x from both sides to get x minus 1 equals 3. Then we'll add 1 to both sides to get x equals positive 4. If we use some quick mental math, we can see that this number will be seven and this number will also be seven. So we know the log of base 3 of seven equals the log of base 3 of seven. Now, I don't actually know the log of base 3 of 7 but since the left side equals the right side, I have an equivalent relationship. My equation holds true when x equals 4. Try solving this equation for x. Enter that value here. If there is no solution, then type ns. Again since we have the logarithm of one amount on one side, and the logarithm with base 3 of another amount on the other side. We can set these amounts equal to one another. Now this property only holds true if the bases are the same, and we have one log on the left, and one log on the right. This means we have three x minus 2 equal to x minus 4. Solving for x, I'll subtract x from both sides to get 2 x minus 2 equals negative 4. We'll add 2 to both sides in order to isolate the 2x. And finally, we'll divide both sides by positive 2 to get x is equal to negative 1. But here's where we want to be careful. If we plug in a negative 1 in for x, we'll have log base 3 of negative 5. The same would be true on the right-hand side. If I plug in a negative 1 here, I'll have log base 3 of negative 5. But here's the question. Can we really take the log base 3 of negative 5? What would that equal? Well, we'd be saying 3 raised to some unknown power, equals negative 5. There's no power that we could raise the base 3 to that would make it equal to negative 5. So this we can't do. Remember that we can't take the log of negative numbers, this number must be greater than zero. This means x equals negative 1 isn't a solution so we have no solution. Now, let's try and make this more difficult. Here's another logarithmic equation. And notice that there's multiple logarithms on the left and multiple logarithms with base six on the right. Now, I know this may look complicated, but we can use our properties of logarithms to rewrite the left-hand side and the right hand side. So, what expressions do you think go here, and here? So that way we can simplify the left hand side, and we can simplify the right hand side. Remember that the name of this thing is just called the argument of the logarithm. It's the number that we take the logarithm off. So what are these two arguments? This argument is x squared minus 2x, and this argument is 15. Great thinking if you got these. We know this argument is x squared minus 2x, since we just multiply x minus 2 times x. We multiply the arguments, when we add two logarithms together that have the same base. So x times x equals x squared and x times negative 2 is negative 2x. For the right hand side we're going to multiple 6 times 5 to get 30 and then we'll divide by 2, since for subtracting a logarithm. So 30 divided by 2 equals 15. Remember when we add logs, we multiple the arguments and when we subtract, we divide by that number. This is how we get a number of 15 here. So we have one logarithm set equal to another logarithm, and they have the same base, this means we can set. These two arguments are numbers equal to one another. So what do you think are the values of x? Maybe there's two. Maybe there's only one that will work for the original equation. Or maybe none of them work and there's no solution. Type your answer in here. Here the only solution is x equals positive 5. Nice solving if you found this number. First we'll take our quadratic equation, and we'll subtract 15 from both sides in order to set it equal to 0. So we'll have x squared minus 2x minus 15 equals 0. Now we've factored this quadratic to give us the two factors x minus 5 times x plus 3. Next, we said each factor equal to 0 and then we solve for the values of x. So x can be positive 5 or x can be negative 3. When considering these values for solutions, we want to think back to the original equation. If we plug in a negative 3, in for x, then this argument would be negative, an this one would be as well. Remember, we can't take the logarithm of a negative number. So that means this solution is out. This is why the only answer is x equals positive 5. Try solving this equation for x. Either two solutions, is there only one solution or is there no solution. Remember, if you think it's no solution, type NS. Here x must equal positive 1. Nice problem solving if you figured this out. We start solving this problem by multiplying x times x plus 2. Since we're adding two logs with the same base, we can just multiply these arguments together. So we'll have log base 4 of x times x, which is x squared, and x times 2, which is plus 2x. The log base 4 of 3 stays on the right-hand side of the equation. Now that we have a logarithm on one side of the equation here and a logarithm of something else here, we can set these two things equal to one another. We want to factor this quadratic, but first we need to subtract 3 from both sides, to set it equal to zero. Now factoring, we get x plus 3 times x minus 1. We set each of these factors equal to 0 so x can equal negative 3 or x can equal positive 1. Now keep in mind that we want these arguments to be positive so that way we can take a log of them. So if x were equal to negative 3, I would have a negative number here. I can't take the log base 4 of negative 3. That's not possible. So this solution is out. This means the only solution is x equals positive 1. Try solving this one for x. If there's two solutions, enter them separated by a comma. If there's one solution, just enter that. Or if there's no solutions, type NS. For this problem, x equals 1 3rd. Excellent problem solving if you found this fraction. Again, we'll start by multiplying these 2 arguments together, since we're adding the logs with the same base. So 2x times 3x equals 6x squared. And 2x times positive 5 is positive 10x. The log of base 3 of 4 just stays on the right hand side. This means we can set this expression equal to 4. Since we have one logarithm of base 3 on one side and another logarithm of base 3 on the other. We subtract 4 from each side of the equation to get 6x squared plus 10x minus 4 equals 0. Now this equation has even coefficients. So I can just divide through by a positive 2. Now I can fator this quadratic. Next, we use factoring by grouping to get the factors of 3x minus 1 and x plus 2. We can set each of these factors equal to 0 and then solve for x. So x can equal positive 1 3rd or x can equal negative 2. When we look back at the original problem, a value of negative 2 for x would make this argument negative, and this argument negative as well. We can't take a logarithm of a negative number, so this solution is out. Our only solution is, x equals one third. Try solving this last exponential equation. Write your solution for x here. The solution for x is positive three halves. Nice work if you found this answer. I really hope you've gained some steam in solving logarithmic equations. We'll start by multiplying these two arguments together to get the log base 6 of 2x squared, plus 7x, equals log base 6 of 15. We get this argument by multiplying x times 2x, which is 2x squared, and x by positive 7, which is positive 7x. Now we can set these two arguments equal to one another. We'll subtract 15 from both sides, to get our quadratic set equal to zero. Factoring this quadratic, will have the two factors of 2x minus 3, and x plus 5. We set each factor equal to zero, and then, we solve for the values of x. So, x can equal three halves, or one and a half or x can equal negative 5. We want to be cautious and make sure these answers check in our original solution. Since we have log base 6 of x, we know that x equals negative 5 will not be a solution. We can't take the logarithm of a negative number. This solution doesn't work, so our only answer is x equals three halves. Throughout our course, you've been able to enter numbers in the boxes. We're going to step that up using Math Quill. Math Quill is an amazing tool that allows us to write math expressions with our keyboard. For this unit, we need to be able to write inequality signs and infinity symbols to solve our problems. Let's see how Math Quill can help us out. If I wanted to type x is less than or equal to 3, I would type in on my keyboard x, a backslash symbol, the letters l, e, and then a space. Right after you hit the space, the backslash and the le will transform into a less than or equal to sign and that's also what this letter stand for, less than or equal to. If you don't type in a space after these characters, then nothing will happen. Once you have entered a space you can continue typing. I would just set 3 to get x is less than or equal to 3. I have greater than or equal to symbol works in a similar way. You would type backslash then ge, and the space. You're going to have a chance to practice that here and here, just by typing in what I have written here. And then as a challenge to you, you'll be able to try these 2 inequalities. Notice that they contain an infinity symbol. For the infinity symbol, you simply need to type in a backslash and then the letters inf and a space. The space again will transofrm these characters into your infinity symbol. For this infinity, it's negative. So, I put a negative sign in front first. This is just the minus sign or the dash on your keyboard. Try playing around with your keyboard and see if you can get these same math expressions using MathQuill. It's pretty cool. To finish typing the rest of this inequality, you should have entered a backslash, the letters le, a space, the letter b, another backslash, and an le, and another space, and then the number 2. This last one is really complicated. But hopefully, you stayed with it and figured it out. First, we type a backslash, the letters inf, and a space for this infinity symbol. Then, we use a backslash and the letters ge and a space for the greater than or equal to sign. We have the letter x next, and then another backslash ge space for the greater than or equal to sign. And finally, we finish out with a negative sign or negative infinity, and a backslash letters, inf, and a space. This will give us our last negative infinity. Feel free to play around with MathQuill and see if you can type in some other things. We'll definitely be learning more about MathQuill as we go. In this unit, we will look at solving equations and inequalities. We'll consider how many solutions or answers exist for a given problem, and we'll work on writing expressions with variables. By the end of this unit, I hope you'll have a greater understanding of solving for unknowns, and how to be confident in knowing you have the right answer, and checking your work. Alright, let's get started. Let's start out by looking at a scale and some weights. A scale can determine if the weights on the left side and the right side are equal, or if one side is heavier than the other. I've added some weights to the scale. The left side of the scale has a total of 8 pounds. The right side of the scale also has a total of 8 pounds. We can write an equation that represents the weight of these scales on each side. I have 6 pounds and 2 pounds is equal to 5 pounds and 3 pounds. We know they both make 8. Now, let's do something crazy. Let's add a ton of weight to both sides, like 100 pounds. Think about what'd happen to the scale, and try and answer this question. If 100 pounds of weight is added to both sides, which side weighs the most? The left, the right, or they weigh the same. We know each side weighed 8 pounds each. Then we added 100 pounds to both sides, so we have 108 pounds on both sides, so they must weigh the same. Not only can I add 100 pounds to both sides of the scale, I could also think about removing 100 pounds from both sides of the scale. If I remove 100 pounds from both sides of the scale, then I'd be back at 8 pounds. 8 pounds on the left and 8 pounds on the right. This is one of the most important concepts in algebra. We want to be able to add a number to both sides of an equation and subtract a number from both sides of an equation. It's the Properties of Equality. If you chose the last answer, nice work. &gt;&gt; So, we're back to our 8 pounds on both sides of our scale. &gt;&gt; They weigh the same. &gt;&gt; What if we removed half of the weight from both sides? What do you think would happen? Would the left weigh more, the right weigh more, or would they weigh the same? If you said they'd weigh the same, great work. Dividing by 2 on both sides gives me 4 pounds. Notice that when I've been solving these problems, I keep my equals sign lined up in the center. And after every time I perform an operation on both sides, I draw a line. This helps me organize my work and my thoughts. Make sure that you can do this or organize your thoughts in some manner when you go to solve problems. It turns out that when we add, subtract, multiply or divide, we can do it to both sides of the scale. This also works for equations. These properties have a special name, and they're called the properties of equality. Let's use these properties of equality to solve a more challenging problem. We know equations work like scales, so when we write an equation, we know the side on the left, or that value, matches the value on the right. Equations work just like scales. We're saying that this number, or this value on the left, is the same as this number, or the value on the right. So, using what you know about the properties of equality, what do you think the unknown weight m is? Can you find it's value? If you got 12 pounds, nice work. When approaching this problem, we can think about combining the like terms or the like weights on one side. I can combine the m's as like terms, so I'll have 3 m on this side and 2 m on this side. I can also combine the 200 and the 50. These are both like terms since they're just numbers. 200 and 38 are also like terms. I can add those weights together. So, I have 238 plus 3 m is equal to 250 plus 2 m. I have 238 plus 3 m is equal to 250 plus 2 m. We know we can remove weights from both sides so we can take off a 2 m, from here and here. I remove 2 m from the weights and 2 m from the weights over here. So, I'm just left with 238 plus m equals 250. I want to think of about getting m alone. I want to isolate this variable. I want to figure out how much this weighs. So, I should remove 238 pounds from both sides. We could easily think about removing 200 and 200, and then removing 38, and removing 38 from 50. So, we know one way m is equal to 12 pounds. When looking back at our work, we should always remember that we're trying to isolate m. You want to remove the variable from both sides and remove constants from both sides. Eventually, we want the variable on one side and constants on the other. We could have done this in a reverse order and maybe you did it a little bit differently. That's okay. We just want to make sure we are performing the same steps and reasoning through our results. When solving the equation, we always want to start off by combining like terms. This helps us know what to remove from both sides of the equation. We could have removed the numbers from both sides of the equation first. That's okay. We just need to be consistent and always remove or perform the same operation on both sides of the equation at each step. &gt;&gt; Here's another equation, and this time it looks harder. &gt;&gt; We have this negative 4 sitting outside these parentheses. &gt;&gt; Well, we only need to multiply this negative 4 to the terms inside the parentheses. &gt;&gt; This is called distribution. &gt;&gt; When distributing the negative 4, I do negative 4 times x, and negative 4 times negative 4. &gt;&gt; You want to make sure that you carry this sign in front of the second term with it. &gt;&gt; I've also been careful to write each statement out. &gt;&gt; I don't want to make an error with negative signs. &gt;&gt; Finish this problem now. &gt;&gt; What's the solution? What does x equal? When solving the equation, we want to multiply these terms, and then combine like terms on the same sides of the equation. Negative 4 times x is negative 4x, and negative 4 times negative 4 is positive 16. This is one of the most common mistakes in algebra, forgetting to multiply a negative by another negative when distributing. Be careful with that. Next we combine like terms, so, negative 4x positive 2x make negative 2x. Here I'm going to try and keep my variable positive. I'm going to add 6x to both sides. Adding 6x to both sides leaves me with 8 equals 4x plus 16. Subtracting 16 from both sides gives me negative 8 equals 4x. And then my last step is just to divide by the coefficient, or the number in front of the variable, which is 4. This leaves me with x equals negative 2. Great work if you got negative 2. When we solved this equation, we got x equals negative 2. What's awesome about math is that we can know we are right. We can substitute negative 2 in for x and check to see if the equation is true. It's like if we are seeing if the scales are still balanced. To check to see if we are right, we take the value negative 2 and we plug it anywhere we see an x. Remember to use parentheses when substituting values, we don't want to make mistakes with negative signs. Now that we've plugged in negative 2 into our equation, we know that the left side should be equal to the right side. The equation should be balanced. So, here's your skills check. What number should go into these boxes to check the answer? Remember, the last boxes should be equal if we've done it right. Negative 6 times negative 2 is positive 12. Negative 2 minus 4 makes negative 6. And, I know I have multiplication here, negative 4 times negative 6, because I had multiplication up here, with this larger parentheses. 12 plus 8 makes 20, and negative 4 times negative 6 makes positive 24. And whoa, look at that. Our answers actually match. 20 does equal 20. So, we know x equals negative 2 was definitely correct. We've solved the equations with integers, now let's try something more difficult. Here's an equation with fractions. Let's use our knowledge of fractions to help us out. When solving an equation involving fractions it's best to clear the denominators first. We can actually undo the division of these denominators by multiplying through by the least common denominator. So, here's your question, what is the least common denominator for these fractions? As a hint, you don't need to worry about the 4, since the 4 is already a factor of 8. The least common denominator is going to be 40. I dont' need to worry about the 4 since 4 goes into 8, so I just need to worry about the 5 in the denominator, and the 8 in the denominator. The only factors in common between 5 and 8 are 1. So that leaves 5 times 1 times 8, which is 40. That quiz is pretty tough, so don't worry if you didn't get it right on the first try. Let's clear these fractions by multiplying through by 40. I'm going to multiply the left by 40 and the right by 40. I've multiplied this side by 40 and notice I didn't need to multiply these inside terms because eventually, this will get distributed to each of them. I've put parentheses around the right side because I needed to distribute the 40 to both these terms. 40 times a 4th is 40 4th or 10. I know that because 40 divided by 4 makes 10. This also makes sense because I can figure out 40 over 1, and then divide 40 and 4 both by 4. And I'll get 10 over 1, or 10. Now, I'm going to distribute or multiply this 10 into this inside parentheses. I have 10 times negative 2 5th y here, and I have 10 times 1, here. I can reduce a common factor of 5 in the numerator and the denominator, so I get negative 4 over 1 or negative 4y. And then, I have my 10 on the end. Notice how both times I reduced before I multiplied. Usually, it's easier to reduce common factors before you multiply. Try doing that on this side. If you carry out the distribution on the right side, what terms would you get down here? Be sure you enter a number and a variable in the first box and a number in the second box. You'll also want to include both of their signs. If the term is negative, be sure to type a negative sign in front of your answer. Good luck. If I distribute the positive 40 to 3 8th y, I'll get 40 times 3 8th y. And if I distribute the 40 to the negative 17 8th, I'll get 40 times negative 17 8th. Be sure you carry the minus sign. Reducing a common factor of 8 gives us 5 here and 1 here. The same is true on this fraction, 5 times 3 is 15 over one. So, I just have 15, and then y. On the right side, I have 5 times negative 17, which is negative 85. This is amazing if you got this right. If you remember how to work your fractions and reduce common factors, great work. We know equations are like scales. They need to remain balanced. The left side needs to equal the right. There are some choices we can make along the way to help us with our math. Let's see what those are. I'm going to solve this problem two ways. When thinking about solving this equation, I'm going to combine my like terms on one side of the equation. So here, I'll have 3b plus 32 and then on the right side, I'll have 2b plus 47. I've listed my equation twice, so now that I can solve it two different ways. First, we can subtract 2b from both sides. 3b and negative 2b make positive 1b. I have 1 times b here, but I don't really need to write the 1. I can leave it off. The positive 32 comes straight down, positive 2b and negative 2b sum to 0, so I don't list anything here. And then, I have positive 47. In the end, b equals positive 15. But let's see another way to solve this. I subtracted 2b first, but what if I didn't subtract the 2b, what if I subtracted the 3b? Positive 3b and negative 3b makes 0, the 32 comes down, the 47 comes down and then 2b and negative 3b make negative 1b. And subtracting 47, we get negative 1b is equal to negative 15. So, I'm not interested in the negative value of b, I want to know the positive value of b. So, I know if negative b is negative 15, then positive b must be positive 15. that could also think about multiplying both sides by a negative 1, That would give us our result, b equals positive 15. So, when you're solving equations, it's best to look out for the variables. Do you want to keep your variable positive? Or do you want to make it negative? It's probably easier to work with a positive b variable here. Sometimes, we make errors with negative signs, so it's best to avoid those. &gt;&gt; Let's finish this problem now. &gt;&gt; What's the answer to this equation? You can put your answer in this box If you said 5, way to go. First, I'm going to add 4 y to both sides. So, I'll have 0 here, 10, 19 y, and negative 85, with my equal sign in the middle. The left is equal to the right. Adding down, I get 95 is equal to 19 y. And, negative 85 and 85 make 0. And for the last step, I divide both sides by 19, the coefficient of my variable. This seems like really tough multiplication. But, let's take a second and stop and think about it. Let's try not using a calculator for this. I know 20 times 5 is 100. Here, I have it 19 times y. Well, 19 is 1 short of 20. So, I would be 5 short of 100. Hey, look at that. I'm 5 short of 100. So, 19 times 5 must be 95. So, this y has to be 5. We've solved the equations with fractions, now let's see how we can use a similar approach to work with decimals. Here I have 2 and 3 10th times n plus 4 98 100th equals 3 times n plus 2 and 6 10th. Notice how I read these place values as 10th and this as 100th. If I want to remove the decimals from my equation I would multiply by a number that moves the decimal point to the right. We can multiply both the left by a 100 and the right by a 100. If we remember back from scientific notation multiplying by 100 moves the decimal 2 places to the right. Now I have an equation just made up of integers. See if you can solve the rest of this problem. And, notice too about the last step that you'll do. Think about why that happens. Now that we've seen how to clear decimals from an equation, let's see you put this to use. Here's a question. To clear the decimals from this equation, what number would you multiply both sides by? We should multiply both sides by 10. I know I should multiply by 10 because I have 5 and 8 10ths and 2 and 1 10th. Tenth is the smallest place value I have. And I know multiplying by 10 moves the decimal one place to the right. So that will clear those decimals. If we do multiply the left and the right side by 10, which of the following equations would we get? Choose your best guess. Good luck, and take your time. Think about what numbers you actually need to multiply by 10. One of these choices will be correct. &gt;&gt; If I multiply the left side by 10, I get 58a. &gt;&gt; I notice 58a is on the left side in all my answer choices, &gt;&gt; So there's something else going on. &gt;&gt; Notice that I use brackets around the entire expression. That's because I already had parenthesis here. &gt;&gt; I only need to distribute the 10 to the 2 and 1 10th and the 2, because when we distribute the 10 will be applied to the 3a and the 2. &gt;&gt; And then of course on the end, I have 2 times 20. &gt;&gt; So we know this one must be correct. &gt;&gt; This was a really tricky quiz, so don't worry if you didn't get it right on the first try. &gt;&gt; Hopefully you learned something about decimals and the distributive property along the way. &gt;&gt; Try solving this equation. &gt;&gt; You can put your answer in this box up here ... &gt;&gt; And remember to check your answer. That way, you'll know if you're right. &gt;&gt; Here's another equation you can try out. &gt;&gt; Remember, you can clear the fractions to help yourself get started. The solution to this problem is x equals 9 7th. Well, let's see how we got 9 7th. Whenever I see an equation with fractions in it, the first thing that I want to do is get rid of the fractions. Because I don't want to have to add, subtract, multiply and divide fractions all the way through solving the problem. To clear the fractions out of an equation, I look at all the denominators, which I have 6, 2 and 3. And I have to find the least common denominator, because I want to multiply the entire equation through by the least common denominator. The least common denominator of 3, 2 and 6 is 6. So, I'm going to multiply the entire equation through by 6. I have to multiply 6 by each term that is in the equation. I'm going to write the steps out here. But once you get comfortable, you can feel free to skip this step. So, I have 6 times 1 3rd, and 1 3rd is being multiplied by 2 x minus 1. On the right side of the equation, I have 6 times negative 1 half x plus 6 times 7 6th. When I multiply 6 times 1 3rd, I get 6 times 1 3rd is 6 over 3, which gives me 2. And that's going to be multiplied by 2 x minus 1. On the right side of the equation I have 6 times negative 1 half x. 6 over 2 is 3, so I have negative 3 x. When I multiply 6 times 7 6th, the 6th cancel out and I'm left with a 7. Once I clear the fractions from the equation, I need to distribute wherever needed. Here, I have 2 times 2 x minus 1, so I need 2 times 2 x, and I need 2 times negative 1. 2 times 2 x is 4 x, and 2 times negative 1 is negative 2. And I just write down the other side of my equation. Once I've cleared the grouping symbols and distributed where needed, I would combine like terms on each side of the equation. However, here, there's only one x term and one constant term on the left side, and one x term and one constant term on the right side. The next step is to move all my constants to one side of the equation. We learned that whatever you do to one side of the equation, you have to do it to the other side of the equation. So, if I add 3 x on this side, I have to add 3 x on this side. When I add 3 x to both sides, I have 4 x plus 3 x gives me 7 x minus 2 equals negative 3 x plus 3 x is 0. So, I just have 7. Now that I have the variable on one side of the equation, I need to move the constant to the other side of the equation. When I add 2 to both sides of the equation, I get 7 x on the left side. Negative 2 plus 2 is zero. And I get 7 plus 2 which equals 9 on the right side. So, I have 7 x equals 9. The last step is to divide both sides of the equation through by the coefficient of the variable. The coefficient of the variable is 7, so I divide both sides by 7. 7 over 7 is 1, so I have x equals 9 7th. Solving an equation with fractions in it is a little bit more difficult. But if we simply multiply through by the least common denominator, all the fractions dissappear and you're left with a simpler problem to solve. &gt;&gt; Here's the second to last practice problem. &gt;&gt; Good luck. &gt;&gt; Here's your last practice problem. &gt;&gt; Be careful with these fractions, especially on this side. The solution to this equation is x equals 3 over 26. If you got the answer right, you are well on your way. Let's see how we got that answer. Once again, this is an equation that has fractions in it. Since I don't want to have to add and subtract, multiply and divide a lot of fractions, I can clear the fractions by multiplying through by the least common denominator. The denominator are 6, 2, and 3. The least common denominator is 6. So, I have to multiply the equation through by 6. I'm going to skip this step of showing the individual multiplication of the terms. When I multiply 6 times x plus 7 over 6, the six is cancelled out, and I'm left with x plus 7. When I multiply 6 times 1 half x, 6 times 1 half is 3, and I have to multiply that by x. When I multiply 6 times 2 3rds, I get 12 over 3, which is 4. Remember, when I'm multiplying through by the least common denominator, I have to multiply the least common denominator by every term. And that's every term whether there's a fraction in the term or not. So, I also have to multiply 6 times 4x, which gives me 24x. Now that I've eliminated all the fractions from my equation, I can combine my terms. On the left side, I only have x plus 7. And on the right side, I have 3x plus 24x is going to give me 27x. And then, I have the plus 4. The next thing I want to do since I like to deal with positive coefficients is to subtract x from both sides. Even though there's not a coefficient in front of this x, we know that there's a 1 there. So, 1x minus 1x gives me 0 and the only thing I have left on the left side of the equation is 7. On the right side of the equation, I have 27x minus 1x, gives me 26x plus 4. No that my variable is on one side of the equation, I want to isolate it by subtracting 4 from both sides of the equation. 7 minus 4 is 3 and that equals 26 x. The last step is to divide both sides of the equation by the coefficient of the variable, which is 26. When I do that, I know 26 over 26 is 1, so I have x on the right side of the equation and 3 over 26 on the left side of the equation. Remember, it doesn't matter whether you have a number equals x or x equals a number. It's the same thing. Congratulations on completing solving linear equations. Now that you've learned how to solve linear equations, let's do something a little bit different. Chris, what do you have up for us next? In the last section, we learned how to solve equations. We're going to use this knowledge to help us solve some word problems. We're going to learn some strategies to help us solve these word problems. We're going to identify unknowns, draw diagrams, and try and create a plan to solve. By the end of this section, I hope you will gain some insights into writing expressions and solving equations. Let's get started. Let's look at a problem involving changing a number. We decrese a number by 7, multiply the result by 3, and divide the final amount by 2. Let's get started by finding out what these words mean. Let's translate them into an expression. Notice that we have some unknown number, we're going to call that a. What do you think? What's the expression that could represent the operations we performed? Choose the best answer. We first took the number and decreased it by 7, so a minus 7. We multiplied that result by 3, so I say 3 times the quantity a minus 7. Finally, we divide the amount by 2. Notice I put the entire quantity over the number 2. I need to divide this entire number by 2. You chose the last one, nice work. We know it's not the first one because we know a minus 7 times 3 is really a minus 21. And I didn't subtract 21 from my original number, so this one's out. Here I would have multiplied by 3 first. which we didn't do. so this one's out as well. the same is true for the third case. So, notice, this case, we were only able to write an expression. Now, I have the same problem but if added the sentence, the result is negative 18. Before we knew that the end result would be negative 18, we could only have an expression. But now that I have this extra piece of information, I can set this equal to negative 18. Now, we have an equation. We have an expression on the left and a number on the right. Now, you can use this equation to figure out the value of a. Try and find a and put your answer in the box. Good luck. To solve this equation, we want to undo the division by 2. We want to clear the fraction, so we multiply by 2. Notice this is one whole fraction. I can reduce the 2's that appear in the numerator and the denominator. I'm left with 3 times the quantity a minus 7. Now, we want to clear the grouping so we can distribute this positive 3 to each term. 3 times a is 3 a, and 3 times negative 7 is negative 21. Adding 21 to both sides, we get 3 a equals negative 15. So, for the solution, a is equal to negative 5. Remember, just like all the other equations, we can check our answer. I can plug in negative 5 for a, and this result should be negative 18. Negative 5 minus 7 is negative 12, 3 times negative 12 is negative 36. And at negative 36 divided by 2 is negative 18. So our answer, a equals negative 5, does check. Here's a challenge question. Divide a number by 6 and then increase the amount by 1 8th. The result is 1 4th. Do you think you can find the original number? Try your best. And I'm not going to post the solution for this one. So, work with others in the forum or with a friend. Before we get to our next word problem, let's learn about perimeter. You might already know what this word means, but if you don't, I'm sure you'll be able to figure it out. For example, for this triangle, I know that the perimeter is 15 centimeters. For this rectangle, I have sides of 2 units in length, and a width of w. I don't know the width. The expression for this perimeter is 4 plus 2 w. And I don't know the units for this perimeter, so I'm going to write the word units. It could be meters, centimers, or even inches. So, what do you think perimeter means? Try and find the expressions for the perimeters for these two shapes. You can write your answers in the boxes. You might have guessed that the perimeter is the distance around an object. So if I just add up the distances around an object, I can find the perimeter. For this one, I have 2 d's and, and 2 3's, so the perimeter is 2d plus 6. The d's have the same length, so we can add them together. They're like terms. The perimeter of this shape is 2a plus 3b. We don't know the length of these two sides, but we can add them together because they're both a, they have the same length. The same is true for the b's. Be careful that you don't write 5ab here. We can't combine these two terms. a is one number, and b is another number. I'm not multiplying, I'm really adding the distances around the object. If you got these two right, nice work. Let's use our idea of perimeter to solve this problem. The length of a rectangle is 6 feet more than its width, and the perimeter of that rectangle is 52 feet. What are the dimensions, length and width, of the rectangle? To start this problem, let's draw a diagram. Here's a rectangle, with a width and a length. Notice the opposite sides of the rectangle are the same. This is true for all rectangles. Before we answer this question, let's break our problem down into a smaller step. Let's start with an equation. So I want you to write an equation for the perimeter of the rectangle. Use p for the perimeter, l for the length, and w for the width. Write your equation in this box. Remember, equations have an equal sign, expressions don't. To find the perimeter of our rectangle, we simply add up the sides around the shape. So we have two l's, and two w's. You might have written this equation, which also is correct. We want to combine the two l's, however, because they're like terms. The same is true for the w's. Here's the equation we found. I'm going to rewrite this equation by dividing by 2. I'm going to just change what it looks like. Notice, if I divide both sides of the equation by 2, I need to be careful on this side. I need to take the 2 and divide it into each term, both the 2l and the 2w. I get p divided by 2 equals l plus w. This p divided by 2 might look funny. But we know dividing by a number is the same as multiplying by the reciprocal. So, I can rewrite this as p times 1 half. So, I have p times one half. This should connect to your drawing. I know if I go half way around the parameter I should only be at l plus w. Notice, it is l plus w, that's half way around the rectangle. We know the perimeter of the rectangle is 52 feet so I am going to write that here. The length of the rectangle is 6 feet more than the width. So, I can write the length being equal to w plus 6. The length is 6 more than the width. Now, we can make a substitution. Wherever I see the letter l, I can replace it with w plus 6. And wherever I see the letter p, I can replace it with 52 feet. We have a half times 52 equals w plus 6 plus w. We made the substitution so we could work with one equation and one variable. Now, we can actually solve for this one variable. I'm going to leave that up to you. Enter the width here and the length here. And don't worry about writing units, I've got those for you. 52 times a half is 26, and then I have 2w plus 6 on the right side. I don't have any multiplication here, this is addition. I'm just adding w to its like term. Subtracting 6 from both sides, we get 20 equals 2w, then we divide both sides by 2, so we're left with 1w is equal to 10. We know the width, but we need to keep in mind that we still need to find the length. Let's check in with our diagram. I can replace these w's with 10, so each side is 10 feet. Now, you could have reasoned your way and figured out the length of l since you know the perimeter has to add up to 52. Or you could be a little bit more clever. You could just say the length of the rectangle is 6 more than the width. So, to find the length, I just have to take the width and add 6, so the length needs to be 16. And you could, of course, check your answer by finding the perimeter. Add up all the sides and your perimeter should be 52. Hopefully, you use your equation skills and got that one right. Another type of word problem involves ratios. A ratio is a way of comparing one quantity to another. For example, the number of dimes to the number of quarters in my hand is two to three. This means that for every two dimes in my hand I have three quarters. So try and answer this question. How many coins are in my hand in total? Choose the best answer. So let's start off really simple. Let's try creating a table to help us out. If I started with two dimes, then I'd have to have three quarters. For ever two dimes there's three quarters, so five coins in total. If I add two more dimes, then I have to add three more quarters. So I'd get ten coins in total. The ration is a way of representing this constant increase. For every increase of two in dimes I increase, and three in quarters. I could also have 6 dimes and 9 quarters, which is 15 coins in total. But I don't know which case I'm in. I could have had any number of coins. So, it's actually impossible to know. And in fact, I had 10 coins in my hand. For every two dimes, I have three quarters. Two more dimes, three more quarters. This ratio is constant. I know that last question wasn't obvious, so don't worry if you didn't get it right. I just wanted to get you thinking about ratios. &gt;&gt; Let's investigate this ratio more closely. &gt;&gt; A ratio is a comparison of the quantity of two objects, like the number of dimes to the number of quarters. &gt;&gt; So, let's find the ratio in each of these rows. &gt;&gt; Take the number of dimes and divide it by the number of quarters. &gt;&gt; Enter your simplified fractions here. &gt;&gt; For the first row, I just have 2 dimes divided by 3 quarters, or 2 3rd, 2 to 3. &gt;&gt; For the second row I have 4 to 6. &gt;&gt; I know a 2 can to go into the numerator and the denominator so, I'm left with 2 3rd. &gt;&gt; And, for 6 to 9 I'm also left with 2 3rd. &gt;&gt; I can remove a 3 as the common factor. &gt;&gt; Notice that in every case the ratio stayed the same. &gt;&gt; As we gain 2 coins here, we always gain 3 here. &gt;&gt; That's why the ratio stays constant, 2 to 3. &gt;&gt; Even though our amounts of dimes and quarters is increasing, the ratio, or that fraction comparing their quantities, is always the same. &gt;&gt; Pretty neat. &gt;&gt; We can write ratios in many different ways. &gt;&gt; For example, if I want to write the number of dimes to the numbers of quarters, I could write it as 2 to 3. &gt;&gt; I could write it using words, using a colon in between the two numbers, or using a fraction bar. &gt;&gt; All of these express a ratio. &gt;&gt; You might see this symbol later. &gt;&gt; I'm just using it to represent a number. &gt;&gt; This pound sign or hash tag is representing the word number. &gt;&gt; I just wanted to save some room when I was writing. &gt;&gt; So, how can you write these ratios? The number of quarters to the number of dimes, and the total number of dimes to the total number of coins. &gt;&gt; Write each ratio in three different ways in these boxes. &gt;&gt; Be sure you use the correct form. The number of dimes to the number of quarters is 2 to 3. So, if I reverse that ratio, the number of quarters to the number of dimes must be 3 to 2. I can write that with words, with a colon, or as a fraction. The second one was really tricky. I don't know the total number of dimes and I don't know the total number of coins So, what can I do? Well, let's try some cases. If I started out with two dimes, I'd have to have 3 quarters, which would be 5 coins in total. But I didn't necessarily have to start with 2 dimes. What if I started with 4 dimes? I doubled the number of dimes that I started with. So, I also need to double my number of quarters. So, 4 dimes would have 6 quarters, which would be 10 coins in total. Notice that 2 divides into 4 and 10. 2 is the common factor, so I can simplify this fraction. And even if I had 6 dimes, I would have to have 9 quarters, or 15 coins in total. And this fraction still reduces to 2 5ths. I removed a 3 as the common factor. That's pretty incredible. I didn't even know the total number of coins, or the total number of dimes, but I knew the ratio. It was 2 to 5. If you didn't get the second part of the problem right, that's okay. I just wanted to get you thinking about ratios. Let's keep our same ratio and this time look at using proportion and a table. So, the number of dimes to the number of quarters is still two to three. But this time I have 10 dimes in my hand. How many quarters am I holding? We could solve this problem by extending our table. I could keep adding two dimes and three dimes in each case. So I'd have 8 dimes, 12 quarters, and 20 coins in total. And then 10 dimes, 15 quarters, and 25 in total. So if I add 10 dimes, then that means I have 15 quarters. But, maybe there was a different way to see this. If I take two dimes and if I multiply it by 5, then I also have to multiply my quarters by 5. The same is true for the number of coins. I would have 5 times 5, which is 25. Ratios often have a multiplier. We take our original ratio and multiply it by a number. So to get from 2 dimes to 10 dimes, we multiply by 5. So to get a 3 quarters to 15 quarters we also multiply by 5. The number of the objects continue to increase, so I can have an n multiplier, any number, and this would be 2n. 3n and 5n. These expressions represent the number of coins for our dimes, our quarters, and our total, depending on our multiplier. We could also solve this problem by setting up a proportion. We can compare the number of dimes and quarters in the ratio to the number of dimes and quarters in our hand. When we set two ratios equal, we get a proportion. The number of dimes in our ratio was 2. For our ratio we had 2 to 3, or 2 3rd. And in our hand, we had 10 dimes, and I didn't know the number of quarters, so I'm going to use a variable, q. Once the proportion is set up, we can solve for unknown amounts using cross-multiplication. This method comes from multiplying both sides of the equation by the denominators. Notice 3 divided by 3 makes 1, so I'm left with 2 q on this side. And q divided by q makes one as well, so I'm left with 3 times 10 or 30 on this side. We could've gotten to this step a lot quicker, if we would have just cross multiplied 3 times 10 is 30, and q times 2 is 2 q, we would get this equation. We want to be careful when we cross multiply. We can only do it when there's one entire fraction on the left and on the right. If there's other sums or differences, you should try something else. And then to find the number of quarters, we divide by 2. So, the number of quarters is 15. &gt;&gt; So, why the mood of out of proportion when conditions are table? Consider this problem. &gt;&gt; We're going to keep our ratio with the number of dimes to the number of quarter's the same. &gt;&gt; How many dimes are there if there are 231 quarters? Now here, I wouldn't want to list out a long table of numbers, that would take too much time. &gt;&gt; Instead, I could set up a proportion and solve. &gt;&gt; You try setting up a proportion and solving. &gt;&gt; Put your final answer here. We know for our ratio the number of dimes to quarters is 2 to 3 or 2 3rd. 2 is the number of dimes, so I need the number of dimes is in the numerator on the other side. I need to make sure the units match. I don't know the number of dimes, so I'm going to call that d. And 231 would go in the denominator, for the number of quarters. Again, notice that the quarters are both in the denominator. There's other ways to set up this proportion. Just be sure you're consistent with your units. Now, we can solve this proportion using cross multiplication. I'm going to multiply both sides of the equation by the denominators. The 3s will reduce to 1, and the 231s will also reduce to 1. This leaves me with 231 times 2, which is 462 and 3 times d, or 3d. Finally, we divide by 3 and we get 154. Really great work if you got that one right. And even if you got it right or wrong, try solving this a different way. See if you can set up other proportions and get the same answer. &gt;&gt; Okay. Try this one with proportions. &gt;&gt; A convenience store charges 3 packs of gum for 87 cents. &gt;&gt; How much should be charged for 10 packs of gum, assuming each pack of gum costs the same amount? &gt;&gt; You can put yours in this box here, and ignore the dollar sign. We can write two ratios and set up a proportion. We can set them equal to each other. I know that for 3 packs of gum, I have to pay 87 cents. For 10 packs of gum, I don't know the cost. I'm going to use a variable to represent that number, I'm going to use t. We have one equation and one unknown. So, let's solve for this variable. We multiply both sides of the equation by the denominators. 87 hundredths times t. The 87 hundredth is reduce to 1, because they are a factor in the numerator and the denominator, and the t is reduce to 1. t divided by t, makes 1. So, I'm left with 3 times t on the left, or 3t, And 8 and 7 tenths on the right, the result of 10 times 87 hundredths. Remember, we just move the decimal one place to the right. I know t represents an amount of money, so I know 8 and 7 tenths is really 8 dollars and 70 cents. I going to divide that amount by 3, so 1t is equal to $2.90, this was the cost of our ten pack of gum. If you've gotten at least one of these right, nice work. We're going to solve similar problems involving expressions and equations in the next sections. Keep up the great work. &gt;&gt; In all the problems so far, we've been setting up equations with words, and then solving them. &gt;&gt; We're going to try that same approach, but this time with geometry. &gt;&gt; We're going to look at angles. &gt;&gt; An angle is used to represent a certain amount of rotation. &gt;&gt; You might have heard doing a 360. &gt;&gt; If you're looking out in one direction and turn all the way around, you've gone 360 degrees. &gt;&gt; So, some angle is only part of 360 degrees. &gt;&gt; We're not going to look at just any angle, we're going to look at some special angles that have unique relationships. Here I have angle A and angle B. We call the angles by their vertex. The point right here at the corner of each angle is the vertex. But we're not so concerned with that. We're going to look at the angle measures. Angle A is going to measure 30 degrees and angle B is going to measure 60 degrees. A and B are said to be complementary angles. Why do you think that is? What do you think this work complementary means? Let's see if you can figure it out. So if C and D are complementary angles, and E and F are complementary angles, what do you think D and F measure? Type your answer in here and don't worry about the degree symbol, I've already put it for you. Well, we said A and B were complimentary angles and if we notice, they sum to 90 degrees or a right angle. You usually draw a box in the corner to indicate a right angle. If I want to find angle D, I know C and D have to add up to 90 degrees. I know C is 55 degrees. So, if I just subtract 55 from both sides, angle D is 35 degrees. We can use the exact same process for angle E and angle F. If I subtract 12 degrees from 90, I get 78 degrees. If you figured out what complementary meant, nice work. If not, that's okay. Hopefully, you'll learn along the way. Complementary angles sum to 90 degrees. So, if I know the compliment of 30 degrees is 60 degrees, what do you think the complement of x is? How do we find the complement of any unknown angle? Write an expression in this box here. Think about how you found the complement in the last problems. To find the compliment of 30 degrees, we took 90 degrees and subtracted that angle. So, we got 60. We can use the same reasoning to find the compliment angle of this unknown angle. We know that angles add up to 90 degrees, so we start with 90 degrees, then we subtract off angle x. We know we start with 90 degrees, a right angle, and then we just subtract off angle x. This will leave us with just the compliment angle. We've worked with complementary angles. Let's see if we can figure out what supplementary angles are. Here's angle R, which measures 60 degrees, and here's angle Q, which measures 120 degrees. These angles are considered to be supplementary angles. Let's see if you know what this word means. Here are two questions. Here, angles S and T are supplementary, and angles U and V are supplementary. What do you think are the missing angles, T and V? Find their measures. And don't worry about entering the degree symbol. Good luck. Supplementary must mean that the two angles add up to 180 degrees. We can see that because angle R and angle Q add up to 180. This should also make sense, because a circle has 360 degrees. So, if I take half of it or draw a straight line through it, I know that's only 180 degrees, just like in this case. So, if angle S and angle T are supplementary, they must add up to 180 degrees. I knew angle S measures 55 degrees so I just need to find the measure of angle T. You can either think about it in your head or just subtract 55 degrees from both sides. So, T is equal to 125 degrees. You might be saying, whoa, this doesn't make sense. This angle is smaller than this angle and you're right. Well, it turns out that this diagram isn't to scale. This would be a more accurate picture of our angle measures. We could find angle V in a similar fashion. We know U and V have to add up to 180 degrees and then, we subtract 12 degrees from both sides. So, V must be 168. If you got those two right, nice work. &gt;&gt; From the last problems, we could find out the supplement of an angle by subtracting it from 180 degrees. &gt;&gt; So let's write an expression for the supplement of any angle. &gt;&gt; If I have some angle x, I don't know what it is, how do I find the supplement? Write your expression here, and don't worry about putting the degree symbol. &gt;&gt; We know x in the supplement add up to 180, &gt;&gt; So we know the supplement is just 180 minus x. &gt;&gt; If you put 180 minus x, nice work. &gt;&gt; A lot of people have trouble remembering what complement and supplement mean. &gt;&gt; Here are some tips that you can use to help you remenber. &gt;&gt; Complement angles form a corner, or a 90 degree angle. &gt;&gt; So the C stands for corner. &gt;&gt; Supplementary angles form a straight line. &gt;&gt; So the S, for straight. &gt;&gt; And, if you remember to list the letters alphabetically, you can also list the degrees numerically in order, increasing. &gt;&gt; C goes with 90, &gt;&gt; S goes with 180. &gt;&gt; Complimentary angles add to 90. &gt;&gt; Supplemetary angles add to 180. Let's put the idea of complement and supplement to use. We want to find the measure of an angle whose supplement is 10 more degrees than twice its complement. This problem can seem kind of confusing. So let's start with what we don't know. We know we need to find the measure of an angle. So that's my unknown, I'm going to call that x. The second part that I've underlined in blue represents an equation. The supplement is, or equals, 10 more than twice it's complement. So notice how I've taken the words and translated them into an equation. Let's put the ideas of complement and supplement to use. We know the complement for any angle is 90 minus x. And the supplement for any angle, is 180 minus x. So, what equation can you write using only x to replace these words? Enter your answer here. Well, I just need to make a substitution. I know the supplement is 180 minus x, so that takes this spot. And the complement is 90 minus x. That's the angle that partners with x to make 90 degrees. And the complement is 90 minus x, so that goes in this spot. Here's the equation and one variable. &gt;&gt; So, now that we have an equation to solve, I want you to find the unknown angle. &gt;&gt; Find x. We can solve this problem like our other equations. First, we distribute the 2. 2 times 90 is a 180, and 2 time negative x is negative 2 x. Here, I combine my like terms, we add 2 x to both sides and we get a 180 plus x equals a 190. So, x is equal to 10, or 10 degrees. We found out that the measure of the angle was 10 degrees. We really should make sure that this is correct. Let's make sure we can check this with our ideas of supplement and complement. We know the complement of angle x has to be 80 degrees, since 80 and 10 make 90 degrees. And the supplement of angle x has to be 170 degrees, since these two add up to 180. So, in my equation, I can replace the complement with 80 degrees and the supplement with 170 degrees. This allows me to check my work. I want to know if this answer is really true. Was the supplement 10 more than two times the complement? And yes, 170 degrees is equal to 170 degrees. Our supplement was double the complement plus 10. So we can be assured that our answer was correct. The unknown angle was 10 degrees. &gt;&gt; Let's see if you've got these ideas down. &gt;&gt; Try answering this question. &gt;&gt; We'll call the unknown angle x, &gt;&gt; And you can write your answer in this box. &gt;&gt; Good luck. Remember, when we start this problem we always start this by identifying our unknown and in this case it was the angle. We don't know the angle, so we call it x. Next we want to identify an equation in words. The supplement of an angle is 40 more than twice its complement. These words actually represents our equation. We have the supplement on the left and 40 more than twice the complement on the right. This word is often serves as the word equals. This allows us to set the supplement equal to 40 more than twice the compliment. The supplement of our unknown angle would be 180 minus x, and the compliment of our unknown angle would be 90 minus x. Now we solve this equation like before. We distribute the positive 2 to get 180 minus 2x. Then we combine like terms to get 220. Next, we add 2x to both sides and we get 180 plus x equals 220. I've rewritten this statement over here and my last step, I just subtract 180 from both sides. So x is 40 degrees. If you got that one right, great work. You've really come a long way in understanding equations and expressions. This stuff is pretty tough. The last thing we want to do is make sure our answer is correct. The supplement of 40 degrees is 140 degrees, since these two add up to 180. And the compliment of our angle is 50 degrees. So let's compare these results with what we've started with. Is this complement 40 more than twice our supplement? If I double the complement, I get 100 degrees. And if I add 40 to it, I get 140 degrees. So, yeah, that's my supplement. For this last problem, we're going to learn about one more angle relationship, vertical angles. Vertical angles are directly across from one another. They share a central vertex, and they form Vs. That's how we can remember them. It turns out vertical angles are equal. So if T measures 30 degrees, M must also measure 30 degrees. Degrees. This also forces some unique relationships in this diagram. I'm going to see if you can figure them out. If angle M measures 32 degrees, I want you to find the measures of all the other angles. Enter their measures here. We know angle M and angle T are vertical angles, so they must be equal. T is 32 degrees. This last part is a little trick. Maybe you saw it. This is a straight line. So, angles M and A are supplementary, they add to 180 degrees. Notice, angle A and T are also supplementary. They both add up to 180 degrees. This also is a result of the vertical angles. There's only one possible value for A. We know supplementary angles add to 180 degrees. So, if I subtract off 32 degrees, I get angle A. So, angle A is 148 degrees. Angle H also shares this same supplementary relationships. So, it's forced to have the same value. Pretty interesting, huh? &gt;&gt; Well, Chris, there's a lot to know about word problems, isn't there? Let's practice doing some word problems. &gt;&gt; The first problem we're going to do is a number problem. &gt;&gt; If twice a number added to 7 is equal to 5 less than 5 times the number, what is the number? You can put your answer in this box. Let's see how we got 4. If we know twice a number added to 7, we know how to write twice a number. Twice a number means 2 times the number. I'm going to use n as the variable this time. So if I had 2 times the number, or twice the number, added to 7 means plus 7. And it's equal to 5 less When I see 5 less, that means I'm going to be subtracting 5 from whatever comes after, is equal to 5 less than 5 times the number. So, here we have twice the number added to 7 is equal to 5 less than 5 times the number. Now that we've translated our words into an equation, we can simply solve this equation. First thing I'm going to do is subtract 2 n from both sides, and I get 7 is equal to 5 n minus 2 n is 3 n minus 5. And now, I just add 5 to the both sides and I get 12 is equal to 3 n. Now I have 12 equals 3 n. So all I need to do is divide both sides by 3 and I get n is equal to 12 divided by 3, which is 4. That wasn't too bad was it? Let's try another one. Now that we've tried a number problem, let's try a geometry problem. Here we have the width of a rectangle is 9 inches less than its length. If the perimeter of the rectangle is 58 inches, find the dimensions. You can put one dimension here and one dimension here. If you got 19 inches by 10 inches, great work. If you didn't get that answer, let's see how we got that answer. First, I know that the width of a rectangle is 9 inches less then its length, so we can write the width, w is equal to 9 inches less then its length. So that's going to be l minus 9. The width is 9 inches less than its length. We also know that the perimeter is 58 inches. We know the equation for perimeter is 2 times the length plus 2 times the width, or 2l plus 2w. If we know that w is l minus 9, we can simply replace w in this equation with what w equals which is l minus 9. And we know that the perimeter is 58 inches. So, I have 2l plus 2 times w, but w equals l minus 9, and that equals 58. Now, I have an equation that I can solve. First, I need to distribute. So, I have 2l plus 2l. 2 times negative 9 is negative 18 and that equals 58. Now, I can combine like terms, 2l plus 2l is 4l, add 18 to both sides, so now, I have 4l equals 58 plus 18, which is 76. So, 4l equals 76. Divide both sides by 4, and I get that l equals 19. So, I have that 4l equals 76, I divide both sides by 4, which gives me, l equals 19. So, here's one of the dimensions of my rectangle. 19 inches is the length. To get the width, I know the width is equal to the length minus 9. So, the width is equal to the length, which is 19, minus 9 which gives me 10. So, the dimensions of the rectangle are 19 inches by 10 inches. Let's try a ratio problem. Now that you've tried a number problem and a geometry problem, let's try a ratio and proportion problem. This time we have a recipe that calls for 8 ounces of chocolate chip cookies for each two dozen cookies. We want to know how many ounces of chips you would need to make 42 cookies. You can put your answer in this box. How'd you do? If you got 14 ounces, great work. Let's see how we got that answer. When we do ratio problems, it's important to put the ratio in words before we put numbers. So, the ratio I need to write is the amount of chocolate chips over the number of cookies. So, the ratio we want to write here is how many ounces of chocolate chips we need for how many cookies. We know that there's 8 ounces of chocolate chips, so we know the amount of chocolate chips. But we don't know the number of cookies because this tells us we have 2 dozen cookies. For those of you that don't know, one dozen is equal to 12. For example, when you buy a dozen eggs, you get 12 eggs. So, if we have 2 dozen cookies, that's going to be 24 cookies. So we need 8 ounces of chocolate chips for 24 cookies. The question says, how many ounces of chips we need to make 42 cookies? So, the number of cookies is 42, and we want to know how many ounces of chocolate chips we need. We know the number of cookies we need to make is 42, and we have to find out how many ounces of chocolate chips. So, this is what we're looking for. I'm going to use the variable c in this case. We have two ratios. When we set them equal to each other, that creates a proportion. To solve a proportion, we simply cross-multiply. When we cross-multiply, we get 24 times c is equal to 8 times 42. So, we get 24 c equals 8 times 42 is 336. To solve this, all we have to do is divide both sides by 24. 336 divided by 24 is 14. So, we get c equals 14, which means we need 14 answers of chocolate chips to make 42 cookies. Are you ready to try another one? &gt;&gt; Let's try an angle problem. &gt;&gt; The supplement of an angle measures 30 degrees more than twice its complement. &gt;&gt; Find the measure of the angle. &gt;&gt; You can put your answer in this box. First, we have to keep a couple things in mind. I have to decide what variable I'm going to use for the angle. I'm going to let a equal the measure of the angle. Next, I have to remember what supplement and complement mean. If you recall, the supplement of an angle, I'll write it as s, is equal to 180 minus the measure of the angle. So here, we have the supplement as 180 minus the measure of the angle. The other thing we have to remember is the complement. The complement of an angle is 90 degrees minus the measure of the angle. So, I have the measure of the angle is a. The supplement is 180 minus a, and the complement is 90 minus a. Now, we can try to turn the words into an equation. The supplement of the angle s measures, which means equals, 30 degrees more. So that's 30 plus twice it's compliment. I know that s equals 180 minus a, and I know that the compliment is 90 minus a. Now I can solve the equation for a. The first thing we need to do to solve this equation is to distribute this 2. So I have 180 minus a equals 30 plus 2 times 90 is 180. And 2 times negative a is negative 2 a. The next thing I want to do combine these like terms. 180 plus 30 is 210. I need to get all my variables onto one side of the equation, and I'm going to do that by adding 2 a to both sides of the equation. When I add 2 a to both sides of the equation, the left side I have 180. Negative a plus 2 a gives me a. And that's going to equal 210. The next thing I need to do is subtract 180 from both sides. And I get a equals 210 minus 180 which gives me 30. So, the measure of an angle who's supplement measures 30 degrees more than twice it's complement is 30 degrees. I think we've had enough of word problems for now. Let's move on to something else. In the last lesson, we looked at solving problems and writing expressions. This time, we're going to look at solving inequalities. We can use inequalities to compare values. We can figure out what amount is less than or greater than some other amount. Before we start solving inequalities, let's look at an equation and think aobut how many solutions there are. For this equation, figure out how many solutions there are, and think about how do you know. Choose one of these answers. If you said one solution, nice work. We can use our properties of equality to solve this equation, and we can figure out exactly how many answers there are. We subtract 2 from both sides, then we divide both sides by 3. So, x must equal 2. There's no other choice here. So, there's just one solution. For equations we just saw that there's one solution, but sometimes there's no solution or there's infinitely many solutions. Let's look at the number of solutions for inequalities. So for this inequality how many solutions do you think there are? None, one, two, three, or more than three. And to help you out, think about what you could plug in for x, I'm going to try 0. I can plug in 0 for x and I know 3 times 0 is 0. I get 8 is less than 2 but I know this isn't true. 8 is bigger than 2. So 0 wouldn't be a solution to this inequality. Can you think of some other values of x that would work? Remember you are not after the value of x you want to know how many solutions there are. &gt;&gt; All right, let's build off our knowledge from the last problem. &gt;&gt; We know that here we had an equal sign here last time, so when this was equal x had to be two. &gt;&gt; So there is one solution, but we don't have an equal sign here, we have an in equality sign. &gt;&gt; So I want this right side to be larger than eight. &gt;&gt; If x was two, I get eight. &gt;&gt; So that means if x was any number bigger than two, then this side would be larger than eight. &gt;&gt; I'm going to try plugging in 3. &gt;&gt; If I plug in 3, I get 9 plus 2 on the right. &gt;&gt; So 8 is less than 11. &gt;&gt; This is great. &gt;&gt; This is a solution that works. &gt;&gt; And in fact, any number bigger than 3 would give me a number larger than 8 when I plug in. &gt;&gt; So, there's gotta be more than one solution. &gt;&gt; There's not just 1 or 2, there's infinitely many. &gt;&gt; There's more than three. &gt;&gt; If you choose this one, nice work. &gt;&gt; You might be skeptical just looking at this one solution. &gt;&gt; Let me show you four. &gt;&gt; When I plug in 4, I get 8 is less than 12 plus 2, or 8 is less than 14. &gt;&gt; Plugging in any number bigger than 2, like 3 4 5 or even 500 would work. &gt;&gt; That's why there's infinitely many solutions here. >From the last problem, we found out there is an infinite number of solutions to this inequality. We know a way to write those answers. And, I don't want to list them out because that could be tedious. So, let's use a solution set. A solution set is all the answers to this inequality. To find them, we solve this inequality just like we solve an equation. We subtract 2 from both sides to get 3 x is greater than 6. Then, we divide both sides by the coefficient in front of the variable, we divide by 3. And the answer is x is greater than 2. So, any number larger than 2 will make this inequality true. Let's use the solution set to write our answer. We can show the solution in two ways. We can use a number line or interval notation. We use an open parentheses at x equals 2 because x can't actually equal 2, its got to be bigger than 2. And then, we draw an arrow in the direction of the numbers that are all bigger than 2. 2 is considered to be the lower bound of our solution set. We use an open parentheses for 2 so that we don't include it. We can remember, because is we plug in 2 here, we'll get 8 greater than 8, which isn't true. So, we don't include 2 in the solution. We use an open parenthesis for positive infinity because we can't actually reach infinity. Any number bigger than 2 will work. You might be used to seeing an open circle at 2, which is correct. For this class, though, we'll only use the parenthesis when showing answers on the number line. Let's change this same problem a little bit. Instead of just being greater than, I'm going to have greater than or equal to. What additional value can x now be? Is it 0, 1, 2, 3, or do no additional values work? &gt;&gt; If I solve my inequality, just like from before, I get x is greater than or equal to 2. &gt;&gt; Notice x can now equal 2. &gt;&gt; If I plug in 2 into my original inequality, I'll get 8 greater than or equal to 8, &gt;&gt; Which is a true statement. &gt;&gt; If you said 2, nice work. There is a little bit of different solution this inequality. We could add 2 in our answer now, so we need a different way of writing the answer in a set of parenthesis. We're going to use brackets. We use a bracket to indicate that the variable x could take on that value. The same is true on the number line. x can now equal to, so we put a bracket in set of a parenthesis. And again, notice I have an open parenthesis for infinity. The interval is considered to be open on this end, because we can always count higher to a number. We can't really reach positive infinity, so we use a parenthesis. In general, for less than or equal to signs and greater than or equal to signs, you will always use a bracket. For less than and greater than, you'll use parentheses. And of course, parentheses always go around positive infinity or negative infinity. Let's put these symbols to use. For this skills check, I want you to match each inequality with a number line and its interval notation. Think about whether brackets or parentheses are important and think about if you're less than or greater than. For example, for this inequality, if you think its number line was 2 and its interval notation was d, you put 2d in the box. For the first inequality, I have x is less than 3. If you have trouble remembering the less than symbol, remember that the arrow points to the left, or to numbers less than zero. I know I need a parenthesis because I can't be equal to. So, it must be the number line 2 or number line 4. I want numbers lower than 3, because x is less than 3, so it must be 4. For the interval notation, I want numbers that are from negative infinity all the way up to 3. So, that must be b. For x greater than or equal to 3, I want to use a bracket, that's number line 1. The interval notation would be d because I get d equal to 3 and then have any number bigger or up to positive infinity. Here, I have 3 is greater than or equal to x. I'm used to seeing the variable on the left side, so I'm going to flip this in equality around. I need to make sure that the arrow still points to the x when I switch this inequality around. I want 3 to be greater than or equal to x, and I want x to be less than or equal to 3. For the number line, it must be at number 3. I need a bracket at 3 and my values could be less than or equal to 3. The interval notation would be a. I could have numbers from negative infinity all the way up, and equal to 3. This must mean that the last one is 2c. I want numbers greater than 3. Here are numbers greater than 3 and here are numbers between 3 and positive infinity. We know inequality's can be solved just like equations. But there is one exception. An inequality sign behaves different when you multiply or divide both sides by a negative value. Let's look at that. I am going to start by not doing division or multiplication, I am going to do subtraction. First, I subtract one from both sides, and I get 1 is greater than 0. Then, I can subtract 2 from both sides and I get negative 1 is greater than negative 2. This causes a lot of trouble for students. Let's look at this. Here's negative 1 and here's negative 2. We know negative 1 is closer to 0, it's further to the right on the number line, so it must be bigger in value compared to negative 2. But we're not after comparing numbers here. We want to know about the inequality sign. I've rewritten negative 1 is greater than negative 2 and instead of doing the subtraction twice, what if we just would've multiplied? If we multiplied both sides of our inequality by negative 1, we'll get negative 2 and negative 1. But I can't just carry my inequalities straight down. We know negative 1 is greater than negative 2, so the sign has to reverse in direction. The same is true when dividing by a negative 1. We know when we divide by a negative 1, we change the signs of the numbers. So, I'll still need to flip my inequality sign. These inequalities might look different, but they're actually equivalent statements. Here, I have negative 1 is greater than negative 2, and here, I have negative 2 is less than negative 1. If we flip this entire inequality, we can see that we wind up with the same thing. We get negative 2 is less than negative 1. The key thing to remember when solving inequality problems is to reverse the direction of the sign when you multiply or divide both sides by a negative. Let's try some practice. What do you think the answer is to this inequality? Enter your answer in this box here. When you type in the answer, you can use less than and the equal to symbol for less than or equal to. You could type in this for greater than or equal to. Good luck. First, we subtract 6 from both sides, so I'm left with negative 3 x, make sure t carry the negative sign down with the term and negative 30 on the right. Here's where I want to be careful. I'm dividing by a negative 3, the coefficient in front of x. When I divide by a negative, my in equality sign must flip over, or reverse direction. So, x could be any number greater than or equal to 10. Just like with equations, we can check to make sure if we are right. Let's plug in any number greater than or equal to 10 into our original inequality to see if the condition is true. I'm going to plug in 10. And when I do that, I can see I get negative 24 is less than or equal to negative 24. That definitely checks. &gt;&gt; For this question, I want you to write the answer in interval notation, &gt;&gt; So using parentheses or brackets. &gt;&gt; You can put your answer in this box here. When solving an inequality, I want to solve it just like an equation. I'm going to clear factions, clear groupings, and then combine variables on both sides. First, I'm going to distribute this negative 3. So, I have negative 3 times x and negative 3 times 4. I'm going to combine like terms to get negative 10. Next, I'm going to add 10 to both sides. Then, I can add x to both sides to isolate my variable on one side of the inequality sign. So, I have negative 2x is greater than or equal to 18. So, I'm left with positive x over here on the left, and negative 9 on the right. I'm left with x is less than or equal to negative 9. Remember, I divided by a negative value here, so I have to reverse the inequality sign. Here's the number line solution, x less than negative 9, and here's the interval notation. &gt;&gt; Here's out third practice problem. &gt;&gt; Try this one out. &gt;&gt; Write your answer in interval notation. &gt;&gt; Good luck. We can start this problem by distributing the 4. We want to clear our grouping. So I get 4x plus 8 on the left. I want to isolate the variable on one side of the inequality sign. I'm going to choose to subtract 4x. I made this decision so I could keep my variable positive. I know when I subtract 4x here, I'll wind up with positive 2x. So, positive 8 is less than or equal to 2x minus 8. Next, I add 8 to both sides to isolate my 2x. So I have 16 is less than or equal to 2x. Finally, I divide both sides by 2, the coefficient in front of x. So I have 8 is less than or equal to x, which is really the same thing as x greater than or equal to 8. So I use a bracketed 8, and then I want any numbers greater than 8, so up to positive infinity. This would be the interval notation. For this last question, I want you to find the number line that represents the answer, or the answer might be all real numbers, or none of these number lines are the answer. Type the letter of the answer in the box here. For example, if you think this is the number line, you'd write d in the box. To start solving this inequality, let's clear our groupings by distributing. I want to distribute this negative 2 and this positive 2. I'm showing my distribution in this step here, being really careful with my negative 3. It's negative 3 times negative 1. I'm going to combine like terms on each side of the inequality. I have 5 plus 3, which gives me 8, and 6 plus 1, which gives me 7. I bring down the negative 3m, and the 2m. I add 3m to both sides to keep my variable positive. A positive 5m and no more M's on the left. Next, I subtract 7 from both sides to isolate the 5m. Finally, I divide by 5 on both sides to get 1 5th is less than or equal to M. That's the same thing as M being greater than or equal to 1 5th M is greater than or equal to 1 5th, so that must be answer choice A. &gt;&gt; We're going to continuing working with inequalities but before we, do let's look at sets. &gt;&gt; Sets are going to help us understand the words and, and or. &gt;&gt; And then, we can use these words to make sense of compound inequalities next. &gt;&gt; C is going to be the set of the counting numbers from 1 to 7. &gt;&gt; A set is a collection of elements or items ... &gt;&gt; And it's usually denoted by curly braces on both ends. &gt;&gt; For the first question of this section, what's the set of even numbers between 1 and 9? &gt;&gt; You can enter your answer here. &gt;&gt; Be sure you use the correct punctuation notation. &gt;&gt; Commas separate the elements. &gt;&gt; Even numbers are divisible by 2. &gt;&gt; So, I know I need to include any numbers between 1 and 9 that can be divided by 2. &gt;&gt; So, I have 2, 4, 6, and 8. &gt;&gt; To find the set of even numbers between 1 and 9, we just list them off, 2, 4, 6, 8. &gt;&gt; We use curly braces on both ends and commas between the elements. &gt;&gt; Nice work. Here I have my set of counting numbers from 1 to 7 and my even numbers between 1 and 9. We're going to write these sets inside of circles so you can better visualize them. Here I have my set C of numbers, and here I have my set E of numbers. I've drawn my two sets in overlapping circles, or a Venn Diagram. All the elements of C have been placed inside this circle and all the elements of E have been placed inside this circle. What's neat about each of these sets is we can actually make one giant set, called the union. To find the union, we want any element that's in set C or in set E, in any of the circles. The union is represented by this upward U symbol, so what set do you think is C union E? Enter your answer here. To find the set of C Union E, you want any elements that are in set C or in set E. So, I list the numbers, usually in order, with curly braces on the ends and with commas in between. For the 2, 4, and 6, I don't need to list them twice. I know that they're in set C and in set E, but I only need to list them once in the Union. When looking at the union, we can also notice that 8 is an element of E but not an element of C. When we're trying to find the union, we list any element that is in one of the sets or the other. So, 8 would be in our union. We also have this other word called intersection. The intersection is a little bit easier. It's all the elements that are in set C and in set E. We use this upside-down u to denote intersection. &gt;&gt; So, let's see if you can get this one. &gt;&gt; What is the intersection of c and e? Enter your set in this box here. &gt;&gt; If you said 2, 4, and 6, nice work. &gt;&gt; We know 2, 4, and 6 are both elements of C and E. And we can also see that in our Venn Diagram. &gt;&gt; We just wanted the center numbers or the numbers that are elements that were in both set C and set E. When working with sets, we don't always have to work with numbers. We can also have letters. So here I have set m, and it contains the letters of math. And set y which contains the letters of udacity. For this quiz, I want you to find the intersection of m and y, and the union of m and y. You want to put your answers here. You'll need to remember what each symbol means. I've drawn a venn diagram to help you out. This is always a great way to get started. Good luck. Let's answer this quiz by filling in our Venn diagram. I'm going to put the letters of M in this circle and we'll put the letters of Y in this circle. I should 1st look at M and Y to see which letters overlap between the sets. I know the letters a and t are in both of the sets, so I'm going to list those in, In the middle. We can remember that the letters in the middle are the inner section. It's what shared, or what's between m and y. So for the intersection of m and y, we have the set a and t. The other letters are just listed in their respective sets, And then for the union, we want to list everything once. So we have this set, the letters of m or the letters of y, the union. For this problem, I have two sets A and B. I have A equals 1, 5, 9, 15, and 17 and said B contains the elements 2, 5, 8, 12, 15, and 18. Can you find A intersection B and A union B? The intersection of A and B contain the elements 5 and 15. The union of A and B contain the elements 1, 2, 5, 8, 9, 12, 15, 17 and 18. How do we get that the intersection of A and B just contains 5 and 15? We know that intersection means and. So, we have to find the numbers that are in set A and in set B. Well, there's only two numbers that are in both sets. Here, 5 is in both sets, and 15 is in both sets. And those are the only two numbers that are in both sets. So, the intersection of A and B is 5 and 15. When I want to find the union of two sets, I know that union means or. So, I want all of the elements that are in set A or in set B, which basically means all of the elements in both sets. So, I have 1, 2, 5. Now, even though five is in both sets, we only write it one time. And then I have 8, 9, 12, and again 15 is in both sets, but we only write it once. And then I have 17, and I have 18. In the previous lesson, we learned about the words and, and or and intersections and unions. And was for an intersection and or was for a union. We're going to use this knowledge for compound inequalities. Let's see how these ideas play out. For a compound inequality, we don't just have one inequality, we have two. Between each compound inequality, we'll have the word and or, or. This one has and. So, for this first skills check, I want you to solve each inequality and write your answer in these boxes. Then, we're going to look at how to diagram the solution. For the first inequality, we can just subtract 1 from both sides, and we get x is less than or equal to 8. The second inequality is a little harder. First we add 2 to both sides, then we divide by a negative 1. Remember, when I divide here, I need to reverse my inequality sign. So I get x is greater than or equal to 5. For compound inequalities though, this doesn't necessarily mean the answer. We want to figure out which numbers satisfy this condition, and this condition. Let's see if we can figure that out next. For the first inequality, we had x was less than or equal to 8. And all of these numbers on this number line represent the solution set for that inequality. For the second inequality, we had x greater than or equal to 5. All of these numbers satisfy this condition. But we have a compound inequality, we want numbers that satisfy the first inequality and the second inequality. So, what do you think? Which number line represents solutions for both inequalities? Choose the best answer. As a hint, you can try plugging in values for different regions and see if they work in both. So, this is the solution set for our compound inequality. If you got it right, nice work. If we stack the number lines on top of each other, like this, we can see that there's a region of intersection. These are the numbers that are shared between the inequalities. They make both of the inequalities true. And this is why we learned about intersections, and really helps us figure out what numbers make both inequalities true. We can see this region of intersection on one number line. This is the solution set. We can also write it in interval notation. So, notice that an and compound inequality makes an intersection, or a region between points. And any of these numbers would work in both inequalities. Let's check that out real quick. Let's check 6. We're going to let x equal 6 and check the solution. So, plugging in 6, I get 7 less than or equal to 9 and plugging in 6 over here, I get negative 8 is less than or equal to negative 7. Both of these statements are true. So, that means 6 is a solution to this compound inequality. Notice that for equations and inequalities, we've always been able to check our answer. This is what so great, we can know that we're right. Checking your answer can build your confidence in knowing that you're right. Or it means, hey, maybe I should go back and check my work. &gt;&gt; Let's try this with some practice. &gt;&gt; What do you think the solution set is to this compound inequality? This last answer might look unfamiliar. &gt;&gt; We have two separate regions on the number line. &gt;&gt; When we want both regions, we use the simple union, because we could have these answers or these answers. &gt;&gt; So, what values of x make this inequality true and this inequality true? Try your best. To solve this and compound inequality, let's solve each and inequality separately. For the first inequality, we add 4 to both sides, then divide by negative 3, to isolate x. Remember, we divided by a negative so we need to reverse the inequality sign. So, for this inequality sign, x needs to be less than negative 3. For the second inequality, we add 1 to both sides, then we divide by 5. So x is less than or equal to negative 4. We have an AND inequality, so I want both of these solutions to be true. x needs to taken a value that works for this inequality and this inequality. So I want to find the overlap of these 2 regions. Let's look back at our number lines. Here are two solution regions. x could be less than or equal to negative 4, or x could be less than negative 3. We have an and inequality, so we want the region of overlap. So, it's any number, less than or equal to negative 4. That would be this number line. Nice job if you got that one right. Here's a different type of compound inequality. This one uses the word, or. I want any number of x that makes this inequality true, or any number of x that makes this inequality true. It doesn't have to be true for both of them. I'm going to do some leg work and go ahead and solve these inequalities. Now would be a good point to pause the video and see if you get the same solutions I do. For the first inequality, we get x is less than or equal to 1. For the second inequality, we divide by negative 3, so we reverse the inequality sign and we get x is greater than or equal to 3. Any number less than or equal to 1 or any number greater than or equal to 3 will satisfy one of these inequalities. Let's see this on a number line. So, here's our number line. Any value to the left of 1 will work for this inequality and any value to the right of 3 will satisfy this inequality. Just like all the other equations and inequalities we've done, we can check our answer to make sure we're right. I'm going to check 0 for this inequality and I'm going to check 4 four for this inequality. Remember, 0 won't work for this one, but it will work for this one. We just need to make sure it will work for one or the other. If I plug in zero for x for the first inequality, I get negative 4 is less than or equal to 0. This is true. If I plug in x equals 4 into the second inequality, I get negative 12 is less than or equal to 9. This is also true. This is great. These solutions work for the first inequality, and these solutions work for the second. They don't need to work for both, they just need to work for one or the other. Let's try using our knowledge of the word or to solve this compound inequality. Remember, you're looking for numbers for x that satisfy either the first condition or the second condition. So, what's the solution set for this compound inequality? Choose the best number line. For the first inequality, I can add 4 to both sides to get negative 3x is greater than 9. Then we divide by negative 3, the coefficient of x, we get x is less than negative 3. Remember, we need to reverse the inequality sign here. For the second inequality, we add 1 to both sides, then we divide by 5 to get x is less than or equal to negative 4. Notice I don't need to reverse the inequality sign here because I divided by a positive. We only reverse the inequality sign when we multiply or divide by a negative. We can graph these solutions on a number line. x can be any value less than negative 3 here or x can be any value less than or equal to negative 4 here. But remember, we want x values for either this inequality or this inequality. Let's see these number lines stacked on top of each other to decide. Here were the two original inequalities and these were the solutions, x less than negative 3 or x less than or equal to negative 4. Let's compare the two number lines. It's harder to see the number lines compared horizontally, so let's stack them on top of each other. When looking at the number lines, we values of x that satisfy this inequality or this inequality. So, we want all of these values. Any value within this region or any value within this region satisfies one of the conditions. Notice that the top number line is contained entirely within the second one. That means, we only need the solutions that are less than negative 3. Any value that's less than negative 3 will work in this first inequality and any value less than negative 4 will work in this inequality. That's why we want this region. We want these values or these values, so we show all these values on one number line. This is our solution set. Any value of x for negative infinity up to negative 3 but not including negative 3 will work. x needs to be less than negative 3. In interval notation, we list it like this. This is a really tough problem. So, if you got the one right, great work. Here's the last compound inequality we'll look at. Notice I have two inequity signs, and an expression with a variable in the middle. So you might be wondering, is this an AND inequality, or an OR inequality. To think about it, let's try splitting it up. Here's one inequality, so I'm going to write the one here. And here's the second inequality. We want this amount to be greater than negative 2 and we want this amount to be less than 4. So this is an AND inequality. We know how to solve an AND inequality, and we could solve each of these separately, but I'm going to show you something different. We're going to solve this inequality by working with each part of the inequality. All three of them. First I'm going to clear the fraction by multiplying every part by 5. 5 times negative 2 is negative 10. Here, I'm going to put the 5 over 1, then I'm going to reduce the common factors in the numerator and the denominator. So these 5's reduce to 1. Now that you have an idea of how to perform the operations to every part, I want you to finish this one out. Write your answer in interval notation in this box. Remember to use parentheses or brackets and a comma to separate the numbers from the interval. Good luck. When solving this inequality, we can add one to both sides to isolate the 3x. Next, to isolate x, we divide each part by 3. So, we know x is greater than negative 3 but less than 7. But this isn't our answer. You want it to be an interval notation. We know x is between these values. So, I have negative 3 and 7, and I have parentheses on the end, because we can't be equal to negative 7 or negative 3. Here's the solution on a number line. We're almost done with Unit 2. I hope so far, you've gained a stronger understanding of satisfying conditions and learning when one condition or both conditions must be met. Let's wrap up this entire section with one last lesson, a lesson with absolute value equations and inequalities. Let's practice some compound inequalities. The first one I want you to try, is 2 x minus 1 is greater than 4 x plus 3, and 5 x plus 3 is greater than or equal to 3 x minus 7. You can put your answer here. When you input your answer, use interval notation. Remember, when you're using interval notation, you want to use parentheses for greater than or less than, and square brackets for less than or equal to and greater than or equal to. Good luck. The solution to this compound inequality is from negative 5 to negative 2. When we solve compound inequalities we need to solve each of the inequalities independently and since they're connected with an AND, we're going to need to look at the intersection of these two solutions. So lets solve this inequality first. I'm going to subtract 2x from both sides which gives me negative 1 is greater than. 2x plus 3. Subtract 3 from both sides, negative 4 is greater than 2x, divide both sides by 2, and I get negative 2 is greater than x. It's important to know that negative 2 greater than x is the same as x is less than negative 2. So we have the solution to our first inequality. Let's solve our second inequality. This time I'm going to subtract 3 x from both sides. When I subtract 3 x from both sides, I get 2 x plus 3 is greater than or equal to negative 7. Subtract 3 from both sides, and I get 2x is greater than or equal to negative 10. Once again divide both sides by 2, and I get that x is greater than or equal to negative 5. Now that I've solved both inequalities, I have to see where these intervals overlap. I'm going to use a number line. I'm going to draw the solution to the two inequalities on top of this number line. X is less than negative 2 uses a parenthesis. And the solution is less than negative 2. And, for x greater than or equal to negative 5, I have a square bracket at negative 5 and my solution. Goes to the right. Since this is an AND inequality, we have to look at where these two intervals overlap. As you can see they overlap from negative 5 to negative 2, so I can draw the actual solution on the number line, which means from negative 5 to negative 2 and everything in between. Let's try another compound inequality. Since you just got to practice a compound inequality with an and, let's try a compound inequality with a or. So, we have 6 x plus 5 is less than 3 x plus 2, or 2 x plus 7 is grater than x plus 11. We know since it's a or problem, we're going to need a union. You can put your answers in these boxes, and I've already put the union sign for you. If you need to write infinity, type in \inf and the infinity symbol should show up. The solution to this compound inequality is negative infinity to negative 1 union 4 to infinity. How did you do? Did you get it right? If so, great work. Let's see how we got that. Once again, I'm going to solve these inequalities independently and I'm going to start skipping a step or two. When I'm solving this inequality, I want to subtract 3x from both sides, which gives me 3x plus 5 is less than 2. Subtracting 5 from both sides, gives me 3x is less than negative 3. Divide both sides by 3, and I get x is less than negative 1. When I solve this inequality, I'm going to skip the steps where I'm showing what I'm adding or subtracting to each side of the equation. In other words, here, I want to subtract x from both sides. When I subtract x from 2x, I am simply left with x plus 7 on the left side and when I subtract x from the right side, x minus x is 0, so I get x plus 7 is 11. And when I subtract 7 from both sides, I get x is greater than 11 minus 7, which is 4. I have x is less than negative 1 or x is greater than 4. Let's see what that looks like on a number line. When I graph the solution of x is less than negative 1 on the number line, I have a parenthesis because it's less than, and I know it's going to the left because it's less than. Similarly, x is greater than 4 We've put a parenthesis at 4 and since it's greater than, we're going to the right. The solution on the number line makes it really easy to write in interval notation. Since this arrow is going off to negative infinity, we start at negative infinity and we have to stop at negative 1. Since it's an or we have a union, and then we start up again at 4 and the arrow is going to positive infinity. Let's go ahead and try one more compound inequality. &gt;&gt; For our last problem on compound inequalities, let's try one that's written in this format. You can put your answer in this box using interval notation. Did you get the closed interval from negative 1 to 1? If so, you should be very proud of yourself. I know I am. Let's see how we got that solution. Remember when you're working with a compound inequality that's written in this form, we can perform operations as long as we do the same operation, to all three portions of the quation. The first thing I want to do is to get rid of this fraction by multiplying through by the least common denominator, and the least common denominator is 2. When I multiply 2 by negative 3, I get negative 6. When I multiply 2 by 5 x minus 1 over 2, I'm simply left with 5 x minus 1, and when I multiply 2 times 2, I get 4. Next I'm going to add 1 to each part of the equation so I can isolate the variable in the middle. When I do that, negative 6 plus 1 is negative 5, and 4 plus 1 is positive 5. Now I can divide through by 5. Negative 5 divided by 5 is negative 1, less than or equal to x, less than or equal to 5 over 5 is positive 1. Let's draw that on the number line. This portion of the inequality says that negative 1 is less than or equal to x, which is the same as x is greater than or equal to negative 1. So, that means we're going to be going in that direction. This portion of the equation says x is less than or equal to positive 1, so we use a square bracket and the answer's going here. So we have the interval from negative 1 to 1 using the square brackets. &gt;&gt; For this last lesson, we're going to combine everything we know about equations and inequalities, and we're going to use absolute value. &gt;&gt; Let's see if we can remember this from Unit 1. &gt;&gt; Here's negative 3 and here's positive 5. &gt;&gt; How far away are these numbers from 0? &gt;&gt; Put your answers in these boxes. The distance of negative 3 to 0 is just 3 units and the distance from 0 to positive 5 is 5 units. Remember, when we want the distance from 0, we want the absolute value of a number. Absolute value is always positive. If you got that right, great work. You really remember your stuff from Unit 1. If you're a little bit fuzzy, that's okay. You can always look back at content to review what you've learned. As you progress through this course, you'll often see material that we've already covered. Math tends to build upon itself and it's no different from Algebra. Be sure to go back to previous content if you're ever unsure. Reviewing can always help you out. We're not just going to learn about absolute value. We'll also going to learn about their equations and inequalities. We learn that the absolute value of a number represents the distance from zero. So, the distance of some unknown number must be 7. Well, I can't be 7 units away on my current number line, let's extend it. This means that variable d could be 7 units to the left of 0, or 7 units to the right of zero. The Algebra tells us that d could be at negative 7, or d could be at positive 7. This is why when we solve absolute value equations, you'll often see us split it into two equations, one with a positive answer, and one with a negative. Because remember, our distance from zero could be to the right or to the left. The negative represents the left. But keep in mind, this distance is still positive. Only the value of d or the location, is negative. We can use a similar approach for a problem like this, the absolute value or the distance of 2 d plus 1 is 7. Notice I can draw the same diagram. This could be the location of 2 d plus 1 at negative 7, or 2 d plus 1 could be positive 7. The distance of this expression is 7 on both sides of the number line. So, we're asking ourselves, what value of d would make this true? What do you think? What would d equal in this case and d equal in this case? Take some time to think about it. &gt;&gt; Well for one possibility 2 d plus one can be at negative 7, or equal to negative 7, and for the other case 2 d plus one can equal positive 7. &gt;&gt; You might have thought about this in your head, or maybe you did some equation solving. &gt;&gt; We can subtract 1 from both sides to get 2 d is equal to negative 8 then divide both sides by 2, &gt;&gt; So d would equal negative 4. &gt;&gt; For this equation, we subtract 1 from both side to get 2d equals 6, then we divide both sides by 2, so d would equal 3. &gt;&gt; If I think about plugging 3 in for d, I get 6 plus 1 which is 7. &gt;&gt; And if I think about plugging in negative 4 in for d, I would get negative 8 ... &gt;&gt; Plus 1, which is negative 7. &gt;&gt; So there are two possible values of d that make this equation true. In general, when we solve an absolute value equation, we want to split it up into two parts. One with an answer that's positive to represent the distance to the right of zero, and one with an answer that's negative to represent the distance to the left of zero, or negative 7. And here, since we have multiple answers, we can list our answer as a solution set. So, the solution set is negative 4 and 3. Remember to use the curly braces for the solution set. In general, we usually list the numbers from least to greatest. &gt;&gt; This question is a little bit more challenging. &gt;&gt; Here, the absolute value of p plus 3 and 4 has to equal 12. &gt;&gt; Let's think about this p plus 3 as a number. &gt;&gt; I know p is really a number, so this inside part will be some number. &gt;&gt; I won't know it though. &gt;&gt; Which numbers make this statement true? Check all the boxes that apply. &gt;&gt; And again, think about what the meaning of absolute value is. &gt;&gt; Good luck. If I started with 0, I know the absolute value or the distance of 0 from 0 is, well, 0. So, 0 plus 4, that doesn't make 12, so 0 is out. If you try positive 3, the absolute value of positive 3 is just 3. So, 3 plus 4, that doesn't make 12 either. If we tried negative 3, the absolute value of negative 3 is positive 3. And I know that 3 plus 4 makes 7, which isn't 12. So, negative 3 is out, too. How about 8? Yeah, the absolute value of 8 is positive 8 and 8 plus 4 is 12. The same would be true for negative 8. If I take the absolute value of negative 8, I get positive 8 and positive 8 plus 4, that's 12. If you try negative 12 and 12, these won't work either. This is great. We know the number can equal 8 or negative 8. But where does this show up in my equation? If we subtract 4 from both sides, we're going to isolate the absolute value. We'll get the distance of p plus 3 alone. This is where the 8 shows up. The absolute value or the distance of p plus 3 from 0 must be 8. When solving absolute value equations, we need to make sure we get the absolute value symbol on one side of the equation alone. That way, we can represent the distance. Once we isolate the absolute value, we want to check. We want to make sure that it's greater than or equal to 0. Remember, distance is always positive, so if we had a negative answer on this side, there would be any number that could make it true, there'd be no solution. This is a difficult concept and it's one that we'll stumble upon, too, later. So now, we're back into the same case before. The value of p plus 3 could be 8 units to left of 0 at negative 8, or it could be 8 units to the right of 0, at positive 8. So, let's split this equation up into 2 equations, setting p plus 3 to negative 8 and p plus 3 equal to positive 8. Just like from before. And at this point, you might even be able to solve it in your head, which is great. For more complicated questions, it's best to stick to the equation solving. Subtracting 3 from both sides, p could equal 5. And subtracting 3 from both sides, p could equal negative 11. So, the solution set or the values for p, are negative 11 and 5. And just like all our other equations, we can check these values in our original equation to see if we are right. That's one of the beauties of mathematics. This can help build your confidence in math. If this don't check, maybe it's a good idea to look back at your work. You might rethink your process or catch a small error. &gt;&gt; Here's another absolute value problem. &gt;&gt; The absolute value of 2m plus 8 is negative 4. &gt;&gt; So what's the solution to this equation? Choose the best answer. If you drew out a diagram, it probably looked like this. But, the distance from zero was negative 4, and that can't be right. The absolute value of any expression, or number, is always greater than or equal to zero. So, there's no value of m that can make this true, there's no solution. If you were solving the equations like before, you might have thought it was negative 2 and negative 6. But, let's check negative 2 to see the result. I can plug negative 2 in for m. 2 times negative 2 is negative 4, and negative 4 plus 8 is positive 4. We know the absolute value of this 4 is positive 4. It's the distance from zero. And it can't be negative 4. It's not true. And that's why none of these solutions work. Here's our last absolute value equation. This one looks crazy. We have the absolute value of 2x plus 1 is equal to the absolute value of 3x minus 5. We have the symbol on both sides of the equation. Alright, let's take a step back and think about what this really means. We know x is some number, so if I plug in a number here, I'll get another number. The same is true on this side. So these numbers could be positive or they could be negative. So if the number's positive and this number's positive, is this statement true? Or if there is a negative sign in front of the number, is this statement true? Check all the statements that you believe are correct. That is the left side is equal to the right side. Let's look at this first case. If I choose a number like 3, I get the absolute value of 3 equal to the absolute value of 3. The distance of these numbers from zero are both 3, so that one works. If I make the second one negative 3, well, the absolute value is still 3. The distance of these numbers from zero is 3. This one is correct and this one is also correct. We just switch the sides that the absolute values are on. And finally, if we had both negative numbers, well, that would be correct as well. The distance of negative 3 from zero is 3. So, all these cases are true. We're going to use this information to figure out how to solve this problem. Let's take a closer look. When thinking about solving this problem, we know that the insides can both be positive numbers, so we leave them alone. We also said that they could both be negative. Remember, a negative number equaling a negative number. But this equation is the same one we just had. We've just multiplied both sides by negative 1, so I don't need to solve this. The other case we had was a positive number and a negative number. This second number or this expression could be negative, or we could have this first number be negative, and that case this first part would be negative. But notice, if I multiply both sides by a negative 1, this side will become positive and this side will become negative. So this is the same equation, I don't need to solve it. Whenever we solve the absolute value on both sides, we always write 2 equations. We keep both sides positive and then we multiply one side by a negative. And again, it doesn't matter which side has the negative, usually we make the second one the negative. Alright, to wrap up this problem, what's the solution set to this absolute value equation? Be sure to write your answer as a set. To solve this first equation, we can subtract 1 from both sides and get 2x equals 3x minus 6. Next, we can subtract negative 2x from both sides to keep our x variable positive. So, I'll have 0 equals x minus 6. Be really careful at this step. You know positive 2x and negative 2x sum to 0, so we need to make sure we have a place value over here. So if this left side is 0, that must mean x would have to equal positive 6. Since 6 minus 6 does make 0. We also see that by just adding 6 to both sides. So 6 is equal to x, or x is equal to 6. For the right equation, we want to distribute the negative 1 first. So we'll have 2x plus 1 equals negative 3x plus 5. I'm going to move my x terms to one side by adding 3x. This also gives me a positive X variable on the left. So if I have x plus 1 is equal to 5 and then can subtract 1 to get 5x is equal to 4. If we divide both sides by 5 you get x is equal to 4 5ths. So here's my solution set. X could equal 4 5ths or x could equal 6. Either one of these would work. Let's make sure. We can check this first x value by plugging it in for x. 2 times 4 5ths is 8 5ths. And then I can just change 1 to 5 divided by 5. So this makes 13 5ths on the left side. Notice that I still have absolute value the entire way down my problem. Now I'm going to take the absolute value of this number. And I get positive 13 5ths. That's the distance from 0. For the right hand side, I'll have 3 times 4 5ths, which is 12 5ths. And then I'm going to change negative 5 into negative 25 5ths. This term is still really negative 5. I subtract my fractions, and I get negative 13 5ths, or the absolute value of negative 13 5ths. The absolute value is always positive, so 13 5ths is equal to 13 5ths. So yes, this checks. I can do the same for the positive 6. I'll substitute it in for x to check my equation. 2 times 6 is 12, plus 1 is 13. I notice I still have the absolute value. So the absolute value of positive 13 is 13. On the right hand side I have 3 times 6, which is 18. And the absolute value of 18 minus 5 is the absolute value of 13. And hey, look at that, 13 is equal to 13. That checks as well. You might have gotten stuck with the negative sign when distributing or perhaps with this fraction. Think about the types of mistakes you might be making if you are making any, and try and write them down. This would be a good reference for you later. &gt;&gt; Thanks, Chris, for telling us all about how to solve absolute value equations. &gt;&gt; For the first practice problem I want you to try, we're going to have the absolute value of 2x minus 5 equals 3. &gt;&gt; You can put your two answers in these two boxes, because we know absolute value equations have two answers. Did you get x equals 1 or x equals 4? If so, well done. Let's see how we got these answers. We know when we're solving absolute value equations that we have to split it into two cases. We have the case when 2x minus 5 is positive, when it will equal 3. And we also have the case when 2x minus 5 is negative 3. So we're going to solve each one of these equations independently. When we add 5 to both sides of the equation here we get 2x equals 8. Which means x equals 4 when we divide both sides by 2 and when we solve this equation add 5 to both sides I get 2x equals 2 and when I divide both sides by 2 I get x equals 1. x equals 1 and x equals 4 are the solutions to this first absolute practice problem. Lets try a few more. For the next practice problem on solving absolute value equations, we're going to try the absolute value of 3x plus 6 equals 0. Now since 0 is neither positive nor negative, there's only going to be one solution. You can put your answer in this box. So do your best. Did you get x equals negative 2? If so, great work. Let's see how we got x equals negative 2. Since my absolute value is equal to 0, and 0 is positive nor negative, there's only going to be one case, which is 3x plus 6 equals 0. If we subtract 6 from both sides, we have 3x equals negative 6. Divide both sides by 3, and I get x equals negative 2. Are you ready for another absolute value problem? &gt;&gt; Let's try an absolute value equation that looks a little different. &gt;&gt; Here we have the absolute value of 4x minus 7, plus 2 equals 7. &gt;&gt; You can put your answers here and here. The solutions to this absolute value equation are 1 half, or 3. If you got the right answers, great job. Let's see how we got these answers. This time, I have an absolute value equation, but I have an extra term next to the absolute value. Before I can split my absolute value equation into two cases, I have to isolate the aboslute value first. So I can do that by subtracting. 2 from both sides. Then, I have the absolute value of 4 x minus 7 equals 5. Now that my absolute value is isolated, I can split it into two cases. I have 4 x minus 7 equals 5, and 4 x minus 7 equals negative 5. So, let's solve this one first. I add 7 to both sides, 4 x equals 12. I divide both sides by 4, and I get x equals 3. For the negative case, when I add 7 to both sides, I get 4 x equals 2. When I divide both sides by 4, I get x equals 2 4th. Remember, whenever I have a fraction, I have to make sure I put it in lowest terms or in reduced form. So, 2 4th is the same as 1 half. And that's how we got 3 and 1 half. Let's try just a couple more absolute value equation problems. For the next question, this one looks a little different. I have the absolute value of 2x plus 3 equals negative 5. Now, I want you to think very carefully about this one before you start trying to solve it. You can put your answer here. If there's no solution you can put in ns for no solution. Good luck. &gt;&gt; This absolute value equation was tricky. &gt;&gt; The answer is actually, no solution. &gt;&gt; Why is the answer no solution? If you recall, absolute value tells us the distance from 0. &gt;&gt; Since one side of our equation is an absolute value, we know that absolute values are the distance from 0 and they're always positive. &gt;&gt; Do it make any sense to have a negative distance? ... &gt;&gt; No, we can not have a negative distance. &gt;&gt; There is no value of x that will make the absolute value of 2x plus 3 equal to negative 5. &gt;&gt; It's an impossible problem. &gt;&gt; So, the answer is no solution. &gt;&gt; Let's try one more absolute value equation. &gt;&gt; For our last question on absolute value equations, I want you to try to solve when one absolute value equals another absolute value. &gt;&gt; You can put your answers here. &gt;&gt; I know this problem is a little more difficult than the others, but do your best. That was a more difficult problem. If you got negative 3 or negative 1 5th, congratulations. I would say that you have mastered absolute value equations. Let's see how we got those answers. When I have two absolute values that are equal to each other, I still have to make two cases. And the two cases for this problem are going to be 3 x plus 2 equals, the first case is going to be exactly what's inside the absolute value, which is 2 x minus 1. The second case, we keep the left side of the equation the same and make the right-hand side of the equation negative, so I have negative 2 x minus 1. Let's go ahead and solve these. First I subtract 2 x from both sides. When I subtract 2 x from both sides, I get x plus 2 equals negative 1. And when I subtract 2 from both sides, I get x equals negative 3. So, there's one of my answers. we have to be a little more careful here. I have negative parentheses, 2 x minus 1, which means negative 1 times 2 x minus 1. Which means I need to distribute that negative sign. Negative 1 times 2 x is negative 2 x, and negative 1 times negative 1 is positive 1. From here, I'm going to add 2 x to both sides, which gives me 5 x plus 2 equals 1. When I subtract 2 from both sides, I get 5 x equals negative 1. Divide both sides by 5, and I get x equals negative 1 5th. That problem was more difficult then a lot of the absolute value equations. So, if you got the answer right, I'd say you've mastered absolute value equations. And, we're ready to move on to absolute value inequalities. &gt;&gt; Now that we've seen absolute value equations, let's try absolute value inequalities. &gt;&gt; Which of these number lines has the solution set that could satisfy this inequality? Think about what absolute value means, &gt;&gt; That will help you find the numbers. We want the absolute value of f to be greater than 5, or the distance of f from zero to be larger than 5. If f were here, it wouldn't be more than 5 units away, so this number line is out. If f were out here, beyond negative 5, then the distance to zero would definitely be more than 5. So, this is part of the solution. But there are also other values over here, like 6 and 7, which have a distance greater than 5. So, we want both of these regions. If you chose this one, nice work. Any number in either region, this one or this one, would work. When we have a greater than inequality, we get a union. Notice that f could be greater than 5, or f can be less than negative 5. Just like in the absolute value equations, we have two inequalities. One with a positive answer and one with a negative answer. But for the negative answer we had to reverse the inequality sign. This will come up in problem solving. But, what about a less than sign? Here, we have the absolute value of a number is less than 5, so we want all the numbers whose distance is less than 5 from 0. So, let's have another check. What sets of numbers satisfy this less than inequality? Choose the best answer. If f was at negative 6, the distance to 0 would be 6, which is greater than 5, so this number line's out. If f were at positive 6, that distance would also be bigger than 5. It would be a distance of 6, so this number line's out. This number line was a combination of these two, so we know this can't be it either. Sure enough, it's this number line. Every number in here is within 5 units of 0. So let's compare this greater than and less than, and see what we have. When we have a less than inequality, we perform the same steps. f could be less than positive 5, or f could be greater than negative 5. Remember, for the negative answer, we reverse the inequality sign. And here's what's interesting. The greater-than symbol creates a union, or two separate regions, where the less than sign creates an intersection between two points. With just the flip of a sign, we can exclude entire numbers or include a small region. And let's look more closely right here at these 2. We said we get an intersection, so that means f is between these 2 numbers. Let's rewrite these inequalities. Now that I've switched the spot of these 2 inequalities, I'm going to reverse the direction of this inequality. I've switched this inequality around, so negative 5 is less than f. This is still the same as F being greater than negative 5. Notice the f's are in the middle now. The f's are between my 2 numbers. We can even write this as one inequality, and, in fact when you solve any absolute value inequality with a less than symbol you can write it as one inequality with 3 parts. Pretty impressive. &gt;&gt; Use what you know about absolute value and what we just covered to solve this inequality. &gt;&gt; Try your best. And if you're stuck, try watching the first couple seconds of the solution video. &gt;&gt; Be sure to pause it once you think you have an idea of what to do. &gt;&gt; You can write your answer in interval notation in the box. &gt;&gt; Be sure to use parenthesis or brackets, or a union symbol if necessary. &gt;&gt; Good luck. We know this value inside needs to be greater than 7 or this value inside can be less than negative 7. Remember to catch that inequality sign, we have to reverse it for the negative answer. We can subtract 1 from both sides and then divide by 2. So x is greater than 3. That's one part of our solution. For the other inequality, I subtract 1 from both sides, then divide by 2, so x is less than negative 4. On a number line, we have x greater than 3, and x less than negative 4. Remember, any number in either region, this region or this region, will work for my inequality. If x is any value in here or any value in here the condition is satisfied. In the interval notation we'd have negative infinity comma negative 4. We use parenthesis because we can include these values. Then the union because you want this or this region other than 3 to positive infinity again with parenthesis. If you got that one right, excellent work. Here's nearly the same exact problem except this time we have a less than symbol. I'm going to solve this inequality just like before. First, 2x plus 1 can be less than 7 here or 2x plus 1 could be greater than negative 7 here. But I don't have to solve these separately. I know 2x plus 1 is less than 7, but greater than negative 7. So it's in between these 2 numbers. Let's just write 1 inequality and solve it. First I can subtract 1 from all 3 parts. This gives me negative 8 is less than 2 x is less than 6. Now I just divide every part by 2. So x is greater than negative 4 but less than 3. It's between these values. We can see we get the numbers between negative 4 and 3. Using parentheses we can include these point because we don't have an equal to by here. This would be the answer in interval notation. In the last problem we had a greater than symbol and we got the outside portions of the number line. For the less than symbol, we get an intersection, the part in between. I hope this helps with your problem solving. So whenever we see absolute value bars, we want to think distance. Let's see if we can use that knowledge to answer this question. So what do you think? What could the values of K be? 0? Negative 3 and 3? Any real number? Or no solution? Take some time to think about it and draw some diagrams. Maybe try and place K at different parts of the number line. Let's say k was equal to negative 5. Well, I would have the absolute value of negative 5 is greater than negative 3. So, 5 is greater than negative 3, that's true. What if k was negative 1? I'd have the absolute value of negative 1, which is greater than negative 3. Well, the distance of negative 1 to zero is just positive 1. So, this is true, too. We know any number to the right of zero will be positive. And, in fact, the absolute value of any number is always greater than or equal to zero. So, this is always true, it doesn't matter what k is. Any real number would work on our number line. That was a tough question and I hope it got you thinking. Now that we've wrapped up this lesson, try practicing a few problems, and feel free to look back if you need to. Sometimes these concepts can be challenging. &gt;&gt; Now that you've learned about absolute value inequalities, let's try some practice problems. &gt;&gt; The first problem I want you to try is the absolute value of x minus 1 over 4 is less than or equal to 2. &gt;&gt; You can put your answer in this box in interval notation. So, how did you do on your first absolute value inequality? Did you get negative 7 to 9? If so, great work. Let's see how we got that answer. When I see an absolute value with a less than, I know that we're going to have an intersection, which is going to leave us one region. To solve this absolute value inequality, I can set it up as a compound inequality. Negative 2 is less than or equal to x minus 1 over 4, which is less than or equal to 2. So, here's our two cases. We have negative 2 is less than or equal to x minus 1 over 4 and we have x minus 1 over 4 is less than or equal to 2. We can solve this compound inequality all at one time. First thing I want to do is clear my fraction. To clear my fraction, I'm going to multiply through by the least common denominator which is 4. When I multiply through by 4, I have to multiply 4 by negative 2 which gives me negative 8. And I multiply 4 by x minus 1 over 4, which gives me x minus 1. And I have to multiply 4 times 2, which is 8. The next thing I need to do is isolate the x in the middle, so I have to add 1 to all three parts, and I get negative 7 is less than or equal to x, which is less than or equal to 9. And I can draw this on a number line. If this is 0 and this is 9 and this is negative 7, we know that x has to be greater than or equal to negative 7 and x has to be less than or equal to 9. So, I fill in the region in the middle. And that gives me the interval from negative 7 to 9 with closed brackets. Remember, we use closed brackets when we have less than or equal to or greater than or equal to. Let's try another one. For the second practice problem, let's try the absolute value of 3 x plus 2 is greater than or equal to 5. You can put your answers here and here. I've already put the union symbol for you. Remember, if you want to type in infinity, you have to type in backslash inf. Good luck. The solution to this absolute value in equality is the interval from negative infinity to negative 7 3rds unioned with the interval from 1 to infinity. Lets see how we got that. When I see an absolute value inequality with a greater than or equal, I know that I'm going to have a union. Which means that I have to separate this into two different cases, and connect them with an or. So, I'm going to write my two cases right here. The first case is, 3x plus 2 is greater than or equal to 5. It's exactly the same as the original problem, without the absolute value, and then I need the or. The second case is going to be the absolute value or 3x plus 2, and we have to switch the direction of the inequality. And we have to change the sign. So, the absolute value of 3x plus 2 is greater than or equal to 5. Is the same as the compound inequality 3x plus 2 is greater than or equal to 5, or 3x plus 2 is less than or equal to negative 5. Remember, when we're solving compound inequalities, we need to solve each of these inequalities independently. So, let's start with this one. I can subtract 2 from both sides, and I get 3x is greater than or equal to 3, and divide both sides by 3, and I get x is greater than or equal to 1. For the second inequality, I do the same thing, by subtracting 2 from both sides, And I get 3x is less than or equal to negative 7. Divide both sides by 3 and I get x is less than or equal to negative 7 3rds. If I want to draw this on the number line, we'll put 0 right here. Here's 1. And negative 7 3rds is equal to negative 2 and 1 3rd. To graph x is greater than or equal to 1 on the number line I use a square bracket and I know I want everything greater than. To graph x is less than or equal to negative 2 and 1 3rd I go about negative 2 and a 3rd and, since x is less than. Then I want to go in that directions, and that's how we get our interval notation here we have negative infinity to negative 7 3rd with a square bracket because it's less then, or equal to, and I union that with the interval from 1 to infinity again with the square bracket because it's greater than. Are equal to. Let's try one more absolute value inequality. For our last absolute value inequality, we are going to try negative 3 times the absolute value of x minus 4 is greater than 6. Now be very careful when you do this problem, you can put your answer here. If this inequality has no solution, I want you to write ns in the box. Goodluck. This problem was a little harder than the others. If you wrote ns or no solution, that's great. Let's see why the answer is no solution. When I'm solving an absolute value inequality, the first thing I need to do is make sure I isolate the absolute value. To isolate the absolute value, in this case, I have to divide both sides by negative 3. To isolate the absolute value, I have to divide both sides of the inequality by negative 3. When I divide the left side by negative 3, negative 3 over negative 3 is 1, so I'm simply left with the absolute of x minus 4. Now, since I divided both sides of this equation by negative 3, we have to remember to switch the direction of the inequality. And 6 divided by negative 3 is negative 2. Now, let's think about this problem. The absolute value of x minus 4 is less than negative 2. We know that absolute values are always positive so can the absolute value of x minus 4 ever be a negative number or much less, less that negative 2? No, this can never happen. Since the absolute value can never be negative, this inequality has no solution. Let's go on to Chapter 3, where we're going to learn about lines. &gt;&gt; Before we start this unit, let's take another look at MathQuill. In the last section, we were able to type in inequalities and interval notations for our answers. Now, we're going to try some fractions. In a fraction in MathQuill is very similar to what you've done in the past. You simply going to type in the numerator then the forward slash and then the denominator. Mathquill will do all the hard work for you and will make your fraction look nice. But sometimes we don't want just a fraction, sometimes you want a little bit more. After typing in a fraction, you'll notice that your cursor bar is in the denominator. To move the cursor bar from the denominator, simply hit the over arrow key and it will shift back up to the main line. And now you're ready to continue typing just like before. You would type x plus sign and then 1. And it turns out anytime you're typing inside a MathQuill box, you can just use your arrow keys as navigation. Try playing around with MathQuill and use these arrow keys. Don't worry about making a mistake because you can always hit Delete. When you play around with it, you'll notice that the cursor bar will move up and down inside of a fraction. You can even hit the carrot symbol and then you can create an exponent cursor. We won't cover this now, but if you want to play around with it, feel free to. We'll do this again later. Geat work if you got each of these. For the last one you just needed to type a 5, a forward slash, a 3 and then the over arrow key. This over arrow key will move our cursor from down in the denominator to up here next to the fraction. Next you would type an x a minus sign, the number eleven a forward slash and a three. This would finish out your expression. &gt;&gt; In the last unit, we focused on equations and inequalities. We focused on solving them and figuring out how many solutions there were. In this section, we're going to look at graphing. So, let's ease into graphing and think about a city. So, what are some of the benefits of organizing a city in this way? Check any of these reasons that you think apply. &gt;&gt; I would say that all of these are useful properties of a gridded city, and many of these same properties wind up being useful in mathematics. Let's say this street was named 2nd Avenue, and this one could be named 4th Avenue, and this one 6th Ave. And what if this was named 2nd Street, and this one named 4th Street? Now, I wonder, can you tell me which intersection on this map would be the intersection of 3rd Avenue and 5th Street? Keep in mind, I haven't told you these streets, but I bet you can make a good guess anyways. Choose the, the best answer. &gt;&gt; The answer is, this intersection. I solved this by guessing that there was a pattern to these street names. Which would mean that this is 3rd Avenue. And this is 5th Street. I know this is 3rd Avenue, because, well, because it's between 2nd and 4th Avenue. And this must be 5th Street, because it comes after 4th Street. So, if I follow Third Avenue to Fifth Street. I get the intersection. Now, this is pretty powerful. Using only two numbers, and in this case, the street and the avenue, it's possible to figure out exactly what intersection I was talking about. Pretty cool. Here's a different city map. And in this city, the naming starts here. We have 1st Street, 2nd street, and then it continues. The avenues are the same, but the avenues run north south. 1st Avenue, 2nd Avenue, and so on. Maybe this is the intersection of the 0th Street, and 0th Avenue. Now, 0th Street and 0th Avenue are pretty silly names for streets, but that's okay. And maybe this intersection is important. It's where the first building may have been built, so residents called it the origin. I'll just label it 0. Now, I want to think about this intersection at 5th Street and 3rd Avenue in relationship to the origin. How would you complete the following statement? How many blocks is this intersection to the right of the origin? And above the origin. Fill in the numbers here. Well, this intersection was 1, 2, 3 blocks to the right of the origin and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 blocks north of the origin. You might be familiar with the map, right is similar to east and up is similar to north. &gt;&gt; It looks like two numbers convey a lot of information. In algebra we use a similar system to identify locations. This is system is called the coordinate plane or the Cartesian plane. The system uses two lines known as the x axis and the y axis. The x axis is the horizontal line and the y axis is the vertical line that runs through plane. By drawing this graph we can create an infinite world of numbers and intersections. Where the x axis and y axis intersect is called the origin, the center. Just like we labelled streets and avenues on our maps, we can label our axes with numbers, 0, 1, 2, and so on. We can do this in the horizontal direction and in the vertical direction. To indicate a point on this Cartesian system, how many numbers would we need to specify? This can be tricky, so think back to our map. How many numbers would we need to specify a point like this? I'm not asking you for the location, I'm asking you for the number of points. Put your answer in this box. I only need 2 numbers. For example to talk about this point I would indicate how far it is along the x axis and then how far along it is on the y axis. I would move 2 units to the right and then 4 units up. So this point would be 2, 4. I went 2 in the horizontal direction and then 4 in the vertical direction. &gt;&gt; To say this mathematically, I would have to have an ordered pair, or an x and a y. The x tells me the horizontal distance, in this case 2. And the y tells me the vertical distance, in this case 4. We call this an ordered pair or we could think about calling these the coordinates of the point. So, where would you find the point for 3? Choose the best answer. &gt;&gt; The point four three would be four to the right of the origin and three above. The x coordinate is four so we travel one, two, three four and then three units vertically up, one, two, three. So this must be the point. So far we've only seen positive values for x and y. We've only dealt with points in this region of the graph. I have a challenge for you. Don't worry if you don't get it right just yet. Where would you find the point negative 3, 2? Choose the best answer here. &gt;&gt; Well, this ordered pair, or point would be here. If you got this right, well done. I haven't even told you about negative coordinates yet. To think about a negative coordinate, instead of moving right, we want to move left. We move left because it's the x coordinate. We move in the horizontal direction, this way. So from the origin, we move three units left and then two units up. I know it can't be either of these points because well the x coordinate would be positive and ours is negative, so these are out. The same would be true for this coordinate, the x value would be positive 3. If you chose this point, you were a close second. This point is really 3 to the left or negative 3. And then down 2, so negative 2 in the y direction. But we don't have a negative 2, we have a positive 2 for our y coordinate. Once we move three units to the left of the origin, we must move two units up. So one, two. So, a negative x coordinate is to the left of the origin. And a negative y coordinate is below the origin. Can you match the following points to the appropriate places on the graph? Write the letter in the corresponding box. For example, if you think this point is letter c, you would write c in the box. Good luck. &gt;&gt; We know an ordered pair is always x, and then y. So for this first ordered pair, I move one unit to the right from the origin, and then two units down. One unit right, two units down. That's C. For the second one, I move one unit left of the origin, and then two units down. That must be B. For the third choice, I have to move two units right, and then one unit down. Two units to the right of the origin. And then one unit down, so answer choice D. This, of course, leaves us with the last one, which is A. We move two units left, for negative 2, and then one unit up. If you got all these right, great work on this quiz. And if you didn't get all of them right, think about which ones gave you trouble. Keep in mind which direction you should move first, right or left. And then, up or down. Points are good and we use them a lot when we look at real world data, but what's even better than a point? A line. This is an example of a line on a coordinate plane. Now this line might not seem that interesting, but its got a whole personality that we're going to talk about. Notice that this line has a ton of points on it. I have points here, here, here and even anywhere along this line all of these are points, but there are two points on this line that I find most interesting. I want you to check the two most mathmatically interesting points on this line and I should say this is a debatable one. So if you get a different answer from me it just means we are thinking differently which is okay. &gt;&gt; Well, I think these two are the most interesting. Notice that they both appear on an axis, this one appears on the x-axis, and this one appears on the y-axis. This is the point where our line intersects the x axis. They meet right here and this is the point where our line intersects the y axis. They meet here. Now thinking back to before, what are the coordinates of this x intercept and this y intercept? Write the numbers in here. Well, this x intercept is three units to the left of 0, so that's negative 3 for the x coordinate. And I don't move vertically up or down, so the y coordinate must be 0. For the y intercept, we don't move left and we don't move right, so the x coordinate is 0. Then, I move two units up, so positive 2 in the y direction. &gt;&gt; Now can you see a pattern here? Something's going on. I want you to really think about what the x-intercept and the y-intercept mean, and then complete these sentences. For the x intercept the x or the y coordinate is always equal to what? And for the y intercept the x or the y coordinate is always equal to what? So choose out of the x or y coordinate for each sentence and then choose the number that it's equal to. Well, check it out. When I'm at the x intercept, I'm right on the x axis. So this means that the y coordinate is zero. Likewise, for the y intercept, I'm right on the y axis. Which mean the x coordinate is zero. These statements will always be true for x intercepts and y intercepts. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, we know we can draw lines on this Cartesian grid. The line is just a visual for a linear equation. Let's explore the relationship between linear equations and lines. For now, I'll just tell you that this line is described by the equation negative 2 x plus 3 y equals 6. Now, we know that this x-intercept is negative 3. But how do we find it? Let's see if you can figure it out. Would you set y equal to 0 and solve for x, set x equal to 0 and solve for y, or solve the equation for y in terms of x? Think about what this point means and think about how you could actually find the coordinate to the point. Good luck. &gt;&gt; We know this point is negative 3,0 so the y coordinate is 0. We want to set y equal to 0 and solve for x, so these other choices won't work. So, I'm going to let the y-value equal 0, and then I'm going to solve for x. 3 times 0 is 0, and then I divide both sides by negative 2. So, we get x is equal to negative 3. That's our x-intercept. This makes a lot of sense because the x-intercept happens when the line crosses the x-axis. So, we can't be vertically up or down on the y-axis. The y must be zero. This x-axis is just an entire line, with all the y-coordinates being equal to zero. So, plugging in zero for y into our equation gives us the x-intercept. How would we find the y-intercept? What variable should go here, what number should go here, and what variable should go here? Fill in the blanks to make the statement true. Again, think about what this y-intercept means. What's going on here? We know the y intercept is 0, 2. This is the ordered pair. So, we must set x equal to 0, since the x-coordinate is 0 here, and then solve for the y-coordinate. &gt;&gt; Let's put our knowledge to use. What are the x and y-intercepts for these lines? Some of these intercepts might be fractions and that's okay. Whenever you write an x-intercept or a y-intercept be sure you write it as a point, remember there are two coordinates here. For these questions, I just want you to enter the numbers here and the same in these two. I've already included the parenthesis and commas for you. To find the first x intercept, I take my equation and I set y equal to 0. I know any number times 0 is 0 so I have negative 2x equals 8. Dividing both sides by negative 2, I get both sides equal to negative 4. So, our x intercept occurs at x equals negative 4 and the point is negative 4, comma 0. For the Y intercept, I set x equal to 0. Negative 2 times 0 is 0 and I'm left with 4Y is equal to 8. We divide both sides by 4 to get y is equal to 2. So, our y intercept occurs at y equals 2, but the point is 0, 2. For the second equation, we can find the x intercept in the same way. We set y equal to 0. So this term drops out. And I get 3x is equal to 6, then we divide both sides by 3, and x equals 2, so our x intercept occurs at x equal 2 and we have the point 2 comma 0. This y intercept is a little bit harder, we do the same process for y intercepts we set x equals 0, so x is 0, so am left with 9y equal to 6. We want to solve for y, so we need to divide by 9. So I have y is equal to 6 9ths. If we remember back from fractions, we know that a 3 goes into both the numerator and the denominator, so I can simplify this fraction. 6 divided by 3 makes 2, and 9 divided by 3 makes 3, so I'm left with 2 3rds. 0 comma 2 3rds is our y-intercept here. For this last equation, we can find the x intercept again by setting y equal to 0, then solve for x and divide both sides by 4. 0 divided by 4 makes both sides 0. So, our x intercept occurs at point 0,0. To find the Y intercept, you let x equal 0, so I get y is equal to 0. Whoa. This is the same point and their both the origin so something is going on with this line. We'll learn about this equation in the upcoming lessons but if you're interested try graphing this and see if you can figure out what's going on. That was all great work. You now know how to plot points in a Cartesian coordiante system. You can look at lines and identify x and y intercepts. And you can calculate intercepts from an equation which is really just a description of a line. And in the next section we will investigate lines and equations in more detail. We'll look at slope and figure out what that word actually means. Try some practice on this, and then stay with me to see what's next. Now that you've learned about the Cartesian coordinate system, let's practice. For this problem I want you to match the points to the ordered pairs. You can put the letter that corresponds to each of the points in these boxes right here. Good luck. Let's see which of these ordered pairs matches with these points. For negative 4 0 we start at the origin and count negative 4 in the x direction and 0 in the y direction and that leads us to point f. So f is the answer to the first problem. For 3, -2, we know we're going to go 3 in the X direction and -2 in the Y direction. So we start at the origin and we count 3, 1, 2, 3 and -2 in the y direction means we move down, 1, 2, so we get to point A. For negative 3, 4, negative 3 in the x-direction, 4 in the y-direction. So we start at the origin. Negative 3 for x, 1, 2, 3, positive 4 for y, 1, 2, 3, 4, leads us to point c. 4, 3, means 4 in the x-direction, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 3 in the y-direction, 1, 2, 3, leads us to point b. And 0, 2 means 0 in the x-direction so that means we don't go left or right at all. And we simply go up to 1, 2 leads us to point D. And for the last one, negative 2, negative 3, means we go negative 2 in the x direction, negative 3 in the y direction, which leads us to point E. If you got those right, you did a wonderful job. Let's do something a little different. &gt;&gt; For this problem we're going to practice finding the x and y intercepts. We're given an equation, 2x minus y equals 6. And we want to find the x-intercept and the y-intercept. You can put your answers in these boxes as ordered pairs. Let's see how you did. The x intercept for this equation is 3, 0 and the y intercept is 0, negative 6. Let's see how we got those answers. Remember when we are finding an x intercept we set the y value to 0. When we set y equal to 0 in this equation we get. 2x minus 0 equals 6. Which is the same as 2x equals 6. And if we divide both sides by 2 we get x equals 3. So the x intercept is going to be 3 comma zero. To find the y intercept we want to set x equal to 0 in the equation. When we put x equals 0 in this equation, we get. 2 times 0 minus y equals 6. 2 times 0 is 0. So we have negative y equals 6. And, we can divide both sides by negative 1, which gives us y equals negative 6. So, the y-intercept is 0. -6. If you got the answer right, great work. If you didn't get it right, don't worry, just go back and look at the video, and try again. &gt;&gt; Last time we got to know a little bit about the relationship between lines and their equations. Specifically we talked about this idea of intercepts, which are where our line intersects either the x axis or the y axis. Let's look at this relationship a bit more. Here's the graph of the equation y equals 2x plus 2. Now I know we don't much about the relationship between this equation and this graph, but we're going to find out a little bit. So, from what you remember from the last lesson, what's the y-intercept for this graph? Enter the numbers for the coordinates here. I can look at this graph and know that the y intercept or this point, is 2. So I move 0 in the horizontal direction since I see that's the origin and then I moved vertically up to. So our point is 0 comma 2. You might have also set the x value equal to 0. If you did that, you would still get y is equal to 2. &gt;&gt; Let's look at some more y-intercepts. Here are two equations and here are two lines. This equation goes with the blue line and this equation goes with the yellow line. I want you to find the y-intercepts for each graph. You can list your coordinates here. The first graph crosses the y axis at this point. We moved 0 horizontally and 3 up vertically, so our y-intercept is 0, 3. For the other graph, we moved 0 horizontally and then down 1 or negative 1 in the y direction, so 0, negative 1 is our y intercept. Great work if you got both of those. Now that we know the y intercepts for these 2 equations. We can actually find out something interesting about these forms. So, here's an equation y equals mx plus b. You might have heard about it. Which part of this equation represents the y intercept? Is it the y, the m, the x, or the b? We know the b represents the y-intercept. We can see the y-intercept was 3 or positive 3 and here the y-intercept was negative 1 just like in our equation. So the only thing that changed between these two equations was the y-intercepts and we can also see that on the graph. But what about this m, now we know the y and x are variables. If I plug in a value for x, I get a value for y. Just like for intercept if x is zero then y would be equal to three. So what about this m, what is this thing we've labeled m correspond to? Let's see, instead of looking at these graphs I'm going to look at two different graphs. Graphs that have different m's.. Here is the line y equals 2x plus 3, and this is the line y equals one half x plus three. So what's different between these two graphs? Is it the steepness? The y-ntercept or the b in the equation y equals mx plus b. Well, these graphs have different steepness. One rises really quickly, and the other one's a little bit more shallow, so this one was correct. If you got it, nice work. If you have trouble picturing this think about a mountain climber. It would be harder for a mountain climber to walk from left to right across this graph than it would for someone to walk from left to right on this graph but we're mathematicians and it's not enough to know that this line is steeper than this line. I want to know how much steeper, I need a way of quantifying steepness In algebra we use something called slope. Slope compares the distant a line rises or falls to the distance aligned runs from left to right. We write slope as the ratio of rise divided by run. For example, let's look at this line. We'll look at the graph between x equals 0 and x equals 1, so we're between here. In this region we have a run of 1 so I'll put 1 in the denominator. How much would this rise be? Use the graph to help you out. The graph has increased vertically 2 units. So, we'll call the rise 2. Slope is always rise divided by run, so the slope of this graph is just 2 divided by 1, or just 2. Excellent work if you figured that one out. What do you think the slope is of this line? This is trickier, and you'll want to identify the rise and run for yourself. &gt;&gt; The slope here is 1 half. I can start by choosing two points on the line. This one is 0,3, and this one is 2,4. We can see to go from this point to the next point, we should move up one. And then write 2. We moved one unit up in a positive direction. So we know the rise is positive 1. And then, we move two units to the right, in a positive direction. So, the run is positive 2. These direction arrows can help me associate the positive and negative signs for the rise and the run. There are, of course, other ways to find the slope. If you've found other ways to find the slope, share your thoughts on the forum. We'd love to see what you did. &gt;&gt; Instead of choosing those two points, I'm going to choose two other points. We can see that to go from this point to the second point, we need to rise three units up and run six units to the right. Because we went up vertically three units, we know that this is a positive 3. And since we traveled six units to the right, we know that the run is really positive 6 in the positive direction. When we find the slope, or the m, we're really finding the ratio of the rise divided by the run. We already know that 3 6ths is really the same thing as 1 half. This is great, we got the same slope as from before. We can see that the slope of 3 6ths is the same thing as 1 half. It always puts us on our line. But remember we can also read slope in other directions. I don't have to start from this point and go to this point, I could go in the reverse direction. If I started from this point, 6, 6. I would travel down three units, and then left six units. So here, the vertical distance is really a drop. It's a 3 unit distance down. So the rise would be negative 3. We move three units down in a negative direction. And 6 units left in a negative direction. Since both of these directions are negative, we know the rise is really negative 3. And the run is really negative 6. A negative divided by a negative makes a positive so we are left with 3 6ths, or 1 half. That's pretty cool. Any way we try and find the slope, we always get the same ratio. We just need to be careful about our directions and our negative signs. In general, when we want to compute the slope of a line, we look at two points. We can label these points P1 and P2. We use a subscript to indicate which point it is. Now, these points could have any coordinates. So it'd be really unspecific or general in mathematical speak. We're just going to say that this point has some x coordinate and some y coordinate. We'll label the point x sub 1 and y sub 1. The 1 is a subscript and it tells us which point we're on. Likewise, I could label this point x sub 2, y sub 2. We know slope is the ratio of the rise divided by the run. So this distance would just be the rise. If I wanted to find the rise between these two points, I would want to look at the y values. I would want to know how these y values changed. For example, if this y value was 5 and this y value was 3, I would just subtract them to figure out the rise. It'd be 2. We can see that the vertical distance or the rise is just the difference between the two y values, y2 minus y1. Knowing this information about the rise, which of the following do you think could represent the run? Is it the sum of the x coordinates, the difference of the x coordinates or the difference of the y coordinates? The run is the difference between the x values. If we travel all the way over here to the right, we want to subtract off this distance so we're left with just the run. This is a really tough question. So great job if you got it right. If not, hang in there and we'll keep learning some more about slope. So, we have an equation for slope between 2 points. Let's practice using it. What is the slope between these 2 points? This point is 4, 6. And this point is 7, 3. Now, you may have a hard time with this. Because I haven't told you which point is point 1 or which is point 2. Maybe it won't be a problem, though. Why don't you give it a shot? Write your final answer in this box. &gt;&gt; Well, it turns out it doesn't matter which one you call p1, or p2. I'm going to find the slope with this one as p1, and this one as p2. I'm going to label this point with x sub 1, y sub 1, and this point with x sub 2, y sub 2. Y sub 2 is 3, and y sub 1 is 6, so I have 3 minus 6. X sub 2 is 7, and x sub 1 is 4, so I have 7 minus 4 for the run. I have negative 3 divided by 3 which makes negative 1, but let's see if this works the other way. I can label this point 2 and this point 1. So this time y2 is 6 and y1 is 3 and for the x values, x2 is 4 and x1 is 7. Here I have 3 divided by negative 3, and look at that, I still get negative 1. Eventually, you'll be able to picture this in your head. We know the rise is the change in the y values. So we went down 3, or negative 3. And then run is the change in the x values. So we went 3 units to the right, from 4 to 7. If you can picture this stuff in your head, that's amazing. If you can't, that's okay too. Understanding what rise and run mean can really help you understand the slope formula. Note that the slope from our last line was negative. As we look at this graph from left to right, the line goes down. If someone were walking or hiking along this line, they'd be going downhill, which corresponds to negative slope. Our slopes don't always have to be negative, though. If we turn the line slightly, we can see that we would have a flat line. We know a flat line has 0 slope, because it has lots of run, but no rise. And 0 divided by any non-zero number, would make 0. We could also turn our line a little bit more. This would produce a positive slope. So now we would be walking uphill. Positive slopes always point up, and to the right. The last type of line is a vertical line and these slopes are undefined. They have lots of rise but zero run. Remember, we cannot have zero in the denominator so the slope must be undefined. For our walking guy, we also remember he can't walk up a vertical wall. That's impossible, so the slope is undefined. So that might be a way you can remember the slope is undefined. For these lines, I want you to indicate the type of slope it is. If it's positive, put a plus sign in the box, or if it's negative, use a negative sign. If the slope is zero type in the number zero in the box, or if it's undefined type the letter u. &gt;&gt; The first sign point up and to the right so this must have positive flow. We also know if someone is walking on it, that they would be walking uphill, so we have positive slope. This line is vertical we can't walk up it, so the slope is undefined. This third line points down and to the right, so it must have negative slope. Here our line points down and to the right so its also negative slope. This one would be positive. And this last one would be 0. We have a horizontal line, so lots of run and no rise. Now that we know how to calculate slope or just the steepness of a line, let's go back to our original lines, y equals 2x plus 3 and y equals 1 half x plus 3. Well they each have an intercept of 3. So 0 3 is on both of the lines. This blue line has another point 1, 5. And this yellow line has another point 2,4. Using this information, can you tell me what the slope of each line is? Well, slope is run over run, or y2 minus y1 divided by x2 minus x1. So the slope of this first line is just 2. We rise 2 and then run 1 to the right. The slope of this line is one half. We rise up 1 unit and then 2 units to the right for the run. I'm noticing a pattern here. Do you see it? &gt;&gt; So, we already found that the b corresponds to the y-intercept. What part corresponds to the slope? Is it the y, the m, the x, or the b? And the answer is that, m represents the slope. We can see 2 is the slope for this equation and 1 half is the slope for this equation. So this particular form tells us a lot about lines. It tells us the y intercept and it tells us the slope. Whenever we write an equation in this form, we say that it is in slope-intercept form. We say that, because we can read the slope and the y intercept or the b directly from the equation. Let's try putting this knowledge to use. Which of the following equations are in slope-intercept form? A word of warning. This is pretty tricky, but, I really want you to think about this. So, take your time and then go with the answer. &gt;&gt; Well, the first equation is in slope intercept form. The slope is 4 and the y-intercept is 7. This second one is a little bit tricky,. It is in slope intercept form. I know the slope is 3 and the y-intercept is actually 0. If I add a 0 in the end, I don't change the equation, so this is also in the correct form. This third option is not in slope intercept form. It's actually in standard form. It's a form we're going to learn about soon. We know it's not in slope intercept form because we have a coefficient in front of the y. The y should be sought for, or it should be alone on one side of the equals sign. This equation is also in slope intercept form. The slope is 1 3rd. And the y-intercept is negative 4. Even though our form has a plus sign in it, I know I can rewrite subtraction as adding the opposite. So, this is definitely in slope intercept form. This fifth option is not in slope intercept form. I have a coefficient of 3 in front of the y, so the y isn't solved for. And finally, this last equation is in slope intercept form. Because remember, even though we don't write it, there's a 1 in front of a x. This is the coefficient, or the slope of our equation. If you got at least half of these right, excellent work. You've really got an understanding of slope intercept form. &gt;&gt; Slope intercept form is a great way to write the equation of a line, but it isn't the only way. In the previous question, one of the equations was 2x plus 3y equals 6. This is an example of equation written in standard form. Standard form has the variables on one side of the equation with coefficients, and then other side is usually constant. In standard form, we actually usually list the x variable first, followed by the y term. I want to talk more about this equation, specifically the slope of this line. But first, let's think back to the previous lesson and see if you remember how to calculate the x and y intercepts. So fill in the missing numbers. Where does the x intercept occur and where does the y intercept occur? To find the x intercept, we let y equal 0. If we solve the equation, we notice that x is equal to 3. So, the x intercept occurs at 3,0. To find the y intercept, we let x equal 0, solving for the variable y, we can see that y would equal 2. And, on a graph, we could see that the x intercept would be here and the y intercept would be here.There's out line. So, we know two points on the line 0, 2 and 3, 0. We should be able to calculate the slope. You can put your answer in this box. &gt;&gt; We know the slope can be calculated by the difference in the y values, divided by the difference of the x values. The rise divided by the run. I'm going to label this point x2, y2 and this point x1, y1. So, y2 is 0 and y1 is 2. Then x2 is 3 and x1 is 0. Notice again that I'm always using parenthesis when I substitute in numbers. This is so I don't make a mistake with negative signs. When I carry out the subtraction, I get negative two thirds. Negative two thirds was the slope. But wouldn't it be easier if we could just read it from the equation? It's not as easy to read off the slope from an equation written in standard form, as it was with an equation written in slope-intercept form. But you can still find the slope. What I like to do with the equations written in standard form, is to first put them into slope intercept form. If I had an equation like this, I would want to change it to slope intercept form. I would want to get the y alone. So I'd have 3y equals 6 minus 2x. And, really, I could list the negative 2x first. In slope intercept form, that's the case. The x term comes first. I can make the switch here, and write my equation like this. Because of the commutative property of addition and subtraction. 1 plus 2 is the same as 2 plus 1. Likewise, positive 6 minus 2x is the same thing as negative 2x plus 6. Notice that the sign stays with the term. The 6 is positive. And the 2x is negative. Finally we divide every term by 3 to get y equals negative 2 3rds x plus 2. Now we can read that the slope is negative 2 3rds. Pretty great. I can also see the slope by looking at standard form. The slope is going to be equal to the value of a divided by the value of b. In this case a is positive to And b is positive 3. So I substitute 2 for a, and 3 for b. So, we get negative 2 thirds. So what if you had the following equation, -5y plus 7x equals 3. What's the slope of this line? Well, we can convert a slope-intercept form and do it that way. I have negative 5y in the left and negative 7x plus 3 on the right. Remember, I can't combine these because this doesn't have an x, these are not like terms. Next we divide every term by negative 5 to get y equals 7 5ths x plus negative 3 5ths.. I have a minus sign here, so I know the second term is really just a negative. Our equation is in slope-intercept form, so our slope must be 7 5ths. Well done if you got that one. If you thought about it in terms of standard form, you would have done negative A divided by B. You want to be really careful though. This is not in standard form. We need to write it in standard form first. The x term should come first. I can switch the place of the 7x and the negative 5y and I get this equation. Notice, the 7x is still positive and the 5y is still negative. So A is positive 7 and B is negative 5. A negative divided by a negative makes a positive, so I get 7 5ths, still the correct answer. Wow, we've discussed a lot of stuff here. We know what the slope looks like, it's the steepness. We know what it means for slope to be positive, negative, zero, or even undefined. We can calculate the slope between two points using a fancy equation, and we've learned how to read an equation in slope intercept form, and a little bit in standard form. That's a ton of material. I know that we've covered a lot, so you make sure you take some time to practice these skills, and then come back when youre ready. Well, I hope you understand slope and know how to find the slope given the equation of a line. I want you to practice finding the slopes of these three equations. You can put the slope for the first equation in this box, the slope for the second equation in this box, and the slope for the third equation in this box. Dont worry too much, just try your best. Did you get those three slopes right? If you did, great job. For the first equation, we have y equals 3x plus 9. This equation is in slope-intercept form. For slope-intercept form, we know the equation is y equals mx plus b, where b is the y intercept and m is the slope. So, we know if the equation is in slope-intercept form. The coefficient to the x variable is going to be the slope. So in this case, the slope is equal to 3. The second equation is written in standard form, 3x plus 2y equals 7. I find, putting the equation in slope intercept form the easiest way to find the slope of an equation that is in standard form. It just takes two simple steps. The first step is to subtract 3x from both sides. When I subtract 3x from both sides, I get 2y equals negative 3x plus 7. I'm almost in slope intercept form but I have 2y instead of y equals. So I have to divide everything through by 2. When I divide everything through by 2, I get y equals negative 3 over 2 is negative 3 halves x, plus 7 halves. So once again, this equation is in slope-intercept form, so we know the coefficient of the x variable, which is negative 3 halves, is the slope. So the slope is negative 3 halves. The third practice problem was just a little bit trickier. To get this equation in slope intercept form, I subtract 6x from both sides and I get negative 3y is equal to negative 6x plus 12. Now, here's where I have to be careful. I have to divide the whole equation through by negative 3. This can be a little confusing, but let's just take it one step at a time. On the left side of the equation, I have negative 3 over negative 3, which of course is 1. So that just leaves me with y. When I divide negative 6x by negative 3, negative 6 divided by negative 3 is 2x. And then, I have 12 divided by negative 3. 12 divided by negative 3 is negative 4. So now we have the equation and slope intercept form, and the slope is going to be the coefficient of the x variable, which is 2. If you got these answers correct, great job. If not, you might want to go back and review the videos on how to find slope from the equation of a line. &gt;&gt; Now that you've seen how to convert to slope intercept form, I want you to try and graph this equation. I've marked up some points, and I want you to check all the boxes that make our graph. Take your time on this problem and think about it. Be really careful with your negative signs, and think about the directions you need to move with slope. As always, try your best. And if you get stuck, try watching the previous video again. Or, watch some of the answer and then pause it, until you get unstuck. This allows you to monitor your thinking, and continue solving the problem. I'm going to convert this equation into slope-intercept form. So first I'm going to add 2x to both sides, because I want to isolate y. I get negative 3y equals 6 plus 2x and I can rewrite this side by switching the terms around. Then I divivde each term by negative 3 to get 1y is equal to negative 2 3rds x minus 2. Notice, I have one negative sign here, and one negative sign here, so both of these terms need to be negative. Alright, now, I'm ready to graph. I know my y intercept is at negative 2, so I go two units down on the y-axis. I know my slope is negative 2 3rd. I'm going to put the negative sign with the 2, which means I move down two units and right three units. If I move down two units and right three units, I end up here, at this point. This wasn't one of the boxes down here, so these are out. We could continue moving two units down and three units right to get other points down in this region. So, I have two points and I know my line should like this. But how do I get the other points up here? Well, I assign the negative to the 2. What if I put the negative instead with a 3? In this case, the 2 would be positive and I would move up two, and the 3 would be negative, and I would move left three. If I start from my y-intercept and move two units up and three units left, I end up at this point here. When working with slope, the positive and negative signs always indicate the directions we need to move. Two points determine line and the third one is like our insurance, so if I connect these, I should get a line. So here is the line that represents our linear equation, pretty cool. &gt;&gt; If you took a break, welcome back. We've been talking a lot about lines and slopes and intercepts. And well, who cares? What good are these lines and equations anyway? It turns out we can use them. For example, let's say we're moving and we need to rent a truck to haul all of our stuff. I looked up prices to do this. And I found that doing this requires us to pay an initial fee of $20, plus $2 per mile. So, if I don't drive the truck at all, I still have to pay $20 just to get the keys. I'm going to list the dollar sign here, instead of the table for each value. So, if we rented this truck and drove it one mile, it would have cost $20 plus $2 for the extra mile. So that's $22 in total. Based on this price structure, how much would it cost to drive the truck 2 miles, 3 miles, and 4 miles? Put your answers in each of these boxes. Well, I paid $2 per mile. So if I drive another mile, I pay 2 more dollars. So driving 2 miles would cost $24, and again, if I drive one more mile, I pay another $2. So it costs $26 to drive 3 miles and $28 to drive 4 miles. Knowing this pattern how much do you think it would cost the truck and drive it 20 miles? Put your answer here. Also, I already have the dollar sign listed here so there's no need to write the dollar sign in your answer. Well, it cost me $20 just to rent the truck, that's just to get the keys. Then I paid $2 per mile, so I'm traveling 20 miles and I have to pay $2 for each of those. So I have my initial fee of 20, $2 for my cost per mile, and then 20 miles, so I get $20 plus $40, which is $60. If you got $60, nice work. &gt;&gt; When we answer these sorts of questions and make these types of calculations, we're actually using algebra. We're creating and using linear equations. But in algebra, we don't stop at the question, how much would 20 miles cost. We ask how much would x miles cost. I want to know the cost of my truck rental for any of the number of miles I drive it. So here's the big question. What expression can we write here that represents the cost of our truck rental in terms of the number of miles we drove x? Try thinking about the pattern in this table, and take some time. Don't worry if you don't know how to do this just yet. I want to get you thinking, and I want to try and give you a shot at it. Finally, when you enter your answer, don't use the dollar sign. Just write the expression. Well the price of the truck will always include the $20 initial fee so let's write that first. Then whatever the number of miles we drive we have to multiply it by 2 since the cost is $2 per mile so we should add 2x to our expression and what's great we can check this. If we drive 20 miles we know the cost should be $60. Let's plug in $20 and for x to make sure that that's true. Sure enough, what do we find? The price is $60. This expression works. &gt;&gt; This equation, let's us calculate the cost of the truck rental for any amount of miles that I drive it, x. This table provides a limited view of the cost of the truck rental. We can only see it for 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 20 miles. If I want a different representation of this data, I could use a graph. A graph can help us visualize the cost of the truck rental, say, for 6 miles, 10 miles or even 15 miles, we can see everything at once. Here is a graph with the positive x-axis and the positive y-axis. X is in miles and y is the cost in dollars. Here is some points on the graph. What I want you to do is to check the points that satisfy our equation. Good luck. &gt;&gt; For the first point we know it's 0,20 so here's 0 and then I go up 20, so this one is on our line. The next point is 1,22. I notice that this box is at 1,24 so this can't be right. If I drive 2 miles, I pay $24, 2 miles and $24, so this is on our line. If I drive 3 miles, I pay $26. $26 would be halfway between 24 and 28. So it'd be right here. So this point and this point don't satisfy our equation. If I drive 4 miles, I pay $28. So this one is correct. If I were to drive 5 miles, I would have to pay two more dollars so, 30. But this point has a y value of 32, and I know if I drive 5 miles, I only pay $30. So, this isn't on our graph. And, finally if I 6 six miles, I know I would have to pay $32. So, this point is on our graph. &gt;&gt; We can connect these points to form all the points that represent the miles driven and the cost of our truck rental. Here's what our graph would look like. And notice that the graph continues to increase up into the right, well that's because I can drive more miles and my cost would continue to go up. But wait, there's something else going here with this equation. If we switch these two terms around then the equation becomes y equals 2x plus 20. This is an equation in slope intercept form. So, what's the slope and the y-intercept for this equation? Put your answers here. We know the slope is represented by the letter m, so that must be the 2. And the y-intercept is the number or constant on the end of the equation, so 20. That's our b. &gt;&gt; We can actually use slope intercept form to graph this line as well. We can graph this equation by starting with the y-intercept or the b. So, I look on my y-axis, and I go to 20 units. 0,20 my y-intercept. You can start at this point because we begin graphing with the letter b. Now that we have the point of the y-intercept, we can graph using our slope. Positive 2. I know slope is rise divided by run. So, I'm going to write my number 2 as 2 divided by 1. Both of these numbers are positive, so I need to move in a positive direction. I'm going to go up two units and then right one unit. These are my directions for how I should move from this point on the graph. I should move up two units, and then right one unit. Notice that my y-axis is in increments of 4. So, I only need to move up half that amount. Half that amount would be two units. Then, on my x-axis, I move one direction to the right. So, I moved two units up, and then one unit to the right. That gets me to my next point on the graph. If I repeat this process, I can continue getting other points on the graph. I go up two units, right one unit. Up two units, right one unit. I know it looks a little funny on this graph, but it's because we've used a scale here. So the coordinate grid doesn't match these numbers. It looks a little different. Let's try graphing this equation, y equals -3x minus 1. First, let's graph the y-intercept. Choose the point that corresponds to the y-intercept, one of these. We know our equation is in slope intercept form, so the y intercept is b, or in this case, negative 1. So, our line has to cross the y-axis at negative 1. That would be this point here. We don't move horizontally on the x-axis, because the x coordinate is 0. The y value is negative 1, so we move down. Nice work if you got it. Now let's use this slope to plot another point on the graph. Which of these points is on the graph? Check all of them that apply. &gt;&gt; Our slope is negative 3, or negative 3 divided by 1. It terms of direction, we know we need to travel down 3 units and then right 1 unit. From our y intercept we travel down 3 units and to the right 1 unit. We wind up at 1, negative 4. So this point is certainly on our graph. Once we have two points, we can connect our line and draw it in. We can see we have some other points on our graph, like negative 1, 2 and negative 2, 5. But these aren't any of these other points, so they don't work. If you also plugged in these values for x and y into our equation, you would find that you'd get a statement that wasn't true. So these points aren't on the line because they don't satifsy our equation. If you're still having some trouble with slope, remember you can always refer back to the directions. You start at the point, and move down 3 and right 1. Drawing your arrows to help you out. Notice that I put this negative sign with the 3 in the numerator. I could have also put the negative sign with the 1 in the denominator. Doing this allows us to make some other moves with slope. Instead of going down 3 units and then right 1, we're going to move up 3 units and left 1. We move left because the run is negative. So here is my y intercept, and I move up 3 and then left 1. Notice I still lined up with a point on my graph. And the same is true if I did it again. So either way that we use the slope we can still wind up with our line. Just be sure you use the negative in only one of the directions. In this case the negative was with the rise, which was down. And in this case, the negative sign was with the run, which is to the left. &gt;&gt; Sometimes the equation isn't as easy to work with. Here this isn't in slope intercept form. I don't have y equals mx plus b. This one's actually in standard form. So we want to change it into slope intercept form so we can more easily graph it. If we don't want to create a table to graph this equation, then we can convert it to slope intercept form. If I subtract x from both sides I get negative 2 y equals 4 minus x. Im going to rearrange these terms so the x term comes first. So I have negative x first and then positive 4 right after it. Finally, to solve for y, we divide each term by negative 2, this isolates y. Remember this is a negative 1 as the coefficient in front of x. When we simplify this we have positive 1 half x minus 2, 4 divided by negative 2 makes negative 2. Here's an equation we're familiar with. There's our y intercepts, our b, and there's our slope, our m 1/2. We can just graph this like before. &gt;&gt; We've done a lot so far. We know how to graph lines using tables, and using slope intercept form. Let's look at one last method. We're going to use x and y-intercepts to make our graph. And you might be wondering, why all these different methods? Well, some ways are easier than others, and you might find that graphing using the intercepts will be more quick than solving for y. This is one of those cases. So for this equation, what's the x-intercept, and what's the y-intercept? Put the coordinates here. For the x intercept we let y equal zero. So I get 4x is equal to negative 12 and then I divide both sides by 4 so x is negative 3. For the y intercept remember we are somewhere along this y axis so we haven't moved left and we haven't moved right. So the x cordinate must be zero. So when x is zero y is equal to four. &gt;&gt; Now that we know the x-intercept and the y-intercept, we can graph. Choose the x and y-intercepts from the points on this grid. You should check two boxes, and that will determine your line. For the x intercept, we're at negative 3, 0. We start at the origin and move three units left and zero units vertically, here. For the y intercept, we start at the origin. We move zero units horizontally and then four units up vertically, so here. We know two points to determine our line so we draw our line in here. Great work if you chose the correct intercepts. Wow, that was a lot of algebra. We learned three different methods of graphing using a table, using self intercept form and using x and y intercepts. We looked at how math can help us rent a truck and we discovered what those numbers meant for the truck rental. Maybe you can find some other scenarios in your life where algebra can help you save or spend your money. If you have any ideas, share them on the forum. We hope to hear from you there. Now that we're done graphing equations, the next thing that we're going to do is write some equations. Stay with us. We're going to continue look in our graphs, but this time, we're going to be writing equations and join connections between those equations and the graphs. Lets start with a horizontal line. Here's a flat horizontal line and here are some points. I want you to tell me the coordinates of each of these points. You can put your numbers here. &gt;&gt; Well for A, we travel four units to the left and then tjjeree units down, so negative 4, negative 3. For B, we don't move horizontally, we just move down 3, so 0, negative 3. For C, we move to the right 3 units and down 3 units, so positive 3 for the right, negative 3 for down. And finally for D, 5 units right, 3 units down. If you got all of these right, then you really have a strong understanding of points. I think I see a pattern, maybe you see it too. Think about what is the same for each of these points, is the x value the same or is the y value the same and what number does it equal? That should help you write the equation. Also I want you to put the slope of the equation in this box, you can enter the number or if you think it is undefined type the letter u. &gt;&gt; Well, when I look at the points, I note that the Y values are all the same. Y is always equal to negative 3, it doesn't matter what x is. So the equation for this horizontal line is y equals negative 3. And remember, we have a flat line here so the slope must be zero. It has lots of run but no rise. This quiz was pretty tough. I know I haven't taught you how to write the equation of a line, so don't worry if you didn't get it right on the first try. &gt;&gt; Here are some other points that form a vertical line. I want you to use the same sort of approach we used last time. Try and label these points and then figure out what's the equation for the line. Then I also want you to find the slope. You can put the number in this box or if you think the slope is undefined, write the letter u. Good luck. &gt;&gt; If I label the points A, B and C, I can write their coordinates. Notice that the x-coordinate is always the same, it's always 2. It doesn't matter the value of y. We just know that the x value is 2. For every point on this line, we're 2 units to the right of the origin. For the slope, it's rise over run, and we know that vertical lines have tons of rise but zero run. Uh-oh. Zero in the denominator? That means it's undefined, so u. I hope these patterns are helping you figure out the equations. &gt;&gt; Vertical and horizontal lines are somewhat tricky. They go against our intuition. When we think of vertical lines, we usually think about the variable y. But the equation is actually x equals. It's because the x-coordinate for every point on this line was 2. When we usually think about the horizontal direction, we think about the variable x. But horizontal lines are always in the form, y equals. All the points on this line have a y-coordinate of negative 3, that's why it's y equals. When math goes against our intuition, it's helpful to stop and think, what's true for all the points? What is this line really saying? The coordinates of each point can be a lot of information, and they help us find the equations of the lines. Let's continue writing some equations, but this time, let's try generating equations from words instead of a graph. I want you to write the equation above line that has a slope of negative 2 and that passes through the point 0 negative 4. Think about what this point is and think about slope-intercept form. I think you'll be able to figure out. You can write your equation here. I know the slope is negative two, so this is my m. This point is actually the y intercept. The x coordinate is zero, and then we move down four units on the y-axis, so the b is negative four. So I make the subsitution for m and b, y equals negative 2x plus negative 4. When I simplify this, I can just write y equals negative 2x minus 4. This is the equation of my line. What if instead I didn't give you slope and the Y intercept, but I just gave you 2 points? Well, we remember from before we could calculate the slope from these 2. We want the rise divided by the run, the difference of the y values divided by the difference of the x values. We can calculate the slope to be negative 3 halfs. And, again, we don't have the y intercept so, we need a different approach to actually write our equation. We're going to use something called point-slope form. We can have one point be x y since both variables appear in linear equations. At least, equations that are not horizontal or vertical lines. If we multiply both sides by the denominator x minus x 1 we can reduce this to make 1. This is our point-slope form. We call it point slope form since we have, well, a point and the slope. We know these two points define a line so let's use the same process to find the equation of our line. I know the slope is negative 3 halves and then I make one of the points be xy And now I'm going to plug in one of these points. So what do you think? Which point is best to use for x1 y1? Should we use this point, or should we use this point. Which one do you think would be easier to substitute in here? &gt;&gt; I think this point is easier. I know the x and y coordinate are both positive, so it's going to be easier to plug in, to this equation. I won't have to deal with two negative signs. So for x1, I'm going to put 1. And for y1, I'm going to put 2. Keep in my mind, it doesn't matter which point you use. You'll still wind up with the same equation. I'm going to multiply both sides by x minus 1. X minus 1 divided by x minus 1 makes 1. So, I have x minus 1 times negative 3 halves. I move the negative 3 halves in front of the x minus 1 because we usually list constants outside of parentheses first. Im going to multiply both sides of the equation by 2. I only need to multiply the negative 3 halves by 2, because this number will be distributed to both terms. However, on this side, I need to multiply 2 to each of these terms. 2 times negative 3 halves is negative 3. And by distributing this two, I get 2y and negative 4. Continuing with distribution I have negative 3x plus 3 and 2y minus negative 4 on the right. I'm going to try and solve this equation for y, I'm going to get it in slope intercept form. Adding 4 to both sides, I get 2y equals negative 3x plus 7. I added 4, because remember, I'm trying to get the y alone. I never used to seen y on the left side of the equation but this is okay. We can rewrite our equation in the end with the y on the other side and this on the right. Finally, we divide each term by 2 and we get y is equal to negative 3 halves x plus 7 halves. This is our equation in slope-intercept form. Notice I've just written the y on the left side, and this expression on the right side. Here's my equation. There's also a quick check here. We want to make sure our slope is negative 3 halves. Is that what we found before? We can check and see the slopes are both negative 3 halves. So, yeah, we have at least have this part of the problem right. The key thing to remember is point slope form. If we understand the equation for slope then we know point slope form. We can fix one of the points to be x and y and then we just plug in another point once we know the slope. This can lead us to the equation. &gt;&gt; Find the equation of a line with a slope of 1 4th that passes through the point 6, negative 1. I want you to write your answer in standard form. Remember, ax plus by equals c is standard form. A, b and c are just numbers. &gt;&gt; For this problem, we start with our slope formula. And, we already know the slope, it's 1 4th. We also want to fix one of these points to be x and y, and then this other point will be x 1 y 1. So I have the slope is 1 4th, I fix the point x,y, and then this last point is 6 negative 1. So 6 for the x, negative 1 for the y. After substituting the values, here's the equation I get. You can think about cross multiplying here, or just multiplying by the least common denominator, which would be 4 times x minus 6. The 4 is reduced to 1, and the x minus 6, and the x minus 6 also reduced to 1. 1 times x minus 6, is well, just x minus 6. And then, I have 4 times the quantity y plus 1. So I need to distribute this four to both terms. So 4 y plus 4. I want to write this equation in standard form, like this. So I need to move this constant to the right and the 4 y to the left. I'm going to add 6 to both sides to get a constant on the right so I get x equals 4 y plus 10. And now I subtract 4 y from each side. So I get x minus 4 y equals 10. I just list these terms here because they are not like. If you got x minus 4 y equals 10, amazing work. I know this isn't the easiest problem and we haven't even covered how to do this part here. So, if you got it, excellent work. Try this one out. Write the equation of a line that passes through the point 3, -1 and -2, 5. This time write your answer in slope intercept form, y equals mx plus b. We're given two points, so we can start by finding the slope. I'm going to label this point x1, y1, and this point x2, y2. For y2, I plug in 5. For y1, I plug in negative 1. And for x2, I plug in negative 2. And finally, for x1, we plug in 3. 5 plus 1 makes 6 and negative 2 minus 3 is negative 5, so we have negative 6 5ths as our slope. Now that we have the slope, we can use our slope formula again and fix one of the points to be x and y. These two variables will appear in our equation. We can plug in negative 6 5ths in for the slope and then we can use our other point 3 and negative 1 for x1 and y1, that's this point here. Simplifying the y minus negative 1, I get y plus 1. Now that we're here, we want to find an equation in slope intercept form, so we want to solve this equation for y. I can multiply both sides by 5 times x minus 3. We do this as 5 times x minus 3 is a common denominator for these two fractions. Notice that we just have factors that appear in the numerator, and also in the denominators. This x minus 3 is just one factor. We use these factors to help us simplify. We know 5 divided by 5 makes 1, and x minus 3 divided by x minus 3 also makes 1. So we have x minus 3 times negative 6 equals y plus 1 times 5. We could have gotten to this step just by cross-multiplying. Negative 6 times x minus 3 on the left. And 5 times y plus 1 on the right. Pretty cool. I distribute the negative 6 to the x and the negative 3. And I distribute the 5 to the y and the positive 1. Our goal here is to get y by itself. So let's isolate this 5y term. We can subtract 5 from both sides to get negative 6x plus 13 equals 5 times y, and then we divide both sides of our equation by 5. So I have negative 6 5ths times x on the left, but 13 5ths equals 1y. It's probably best to continue solving down the page, I just wanted to show our work all in one place. I can rewrite this fraction as negative 6 5ths times x. We know multiplication and division have the same priority in the order of operations. I could do multiplication, and then the division. Or I could do division, and then the multiplication. These two are exactly the same. Finally, we can just flip our equation around to get our answer in slope intercept form. We can check one part of our answer. We calculated the slope to be negative 6 5ths earlier in our problem. Well sure enough, we get negative 6 5ths in our answer. We know that this part of the problem should be correct so long as our calculation from above was correct. Parallel lines never intersect and they share a unique property. What are the slopes for these two parallel lines? Well, both the equations are in y equals mx plus b or slope intercept form. So this slope is negative 2 3rds and this slope is negative 2 3rds. It turns out, any parallel lines will have the same slope. I can draw more lines on this graph, and all these lines have a slope of negative two thirds. This should make sense that they're parallel because, this slope goes down two and right three, negative two, positive three. The same is true for the blue line. To move to another point of the line, we travel two units down and three units right. It's the same slope for both lines, pretty cool. We've seen parallel lines. Now, let's check out perpendicular lines. Here are 2 lines that are perpendicular. Before we talk about perpendicular lines, I want to see if you can find these equations. Use the graph to write the equations in slope intercept form. For this line, write the answer here. And for this line, write it here. For this blue graph, I know the y intercept is at 1. So my y intercept, or my b is positive 1. To find the slope, we just move from this point to another point in the line. I'm going to move to this point. So I move up 4, and then right 3. These are both positive directions. So I have 4 3rd. For the red line, I start at the y intercept, which is at negative 3. To find the slope, I can go to another point. I see another point there. So I travel down 3 units, and write 4 units. Here, this direction is down. So it's negative 3, and the 4 is positive, since I moved to the right. So, negative 3 4th. Congrats if you got both of those right. You might be wondering what perpendicular means, well it means that the lines cross at a right angle. We have seen this before with complimentary angles. They formed a 90 degree angle together. With complimentary angles we had two angles that added up to 90 degrees. And in this case we have two lines that create four 90 degree angles. That's what it means to have perpendicular lines. If we take a closer look at the slopes, we can see that these slopes are actually reciprocals of one another and opposite in sign. The slopes of perpendicular lines are always opposite reciprocals of each other. The reciprocal of four thirds is three fourths and then we make it negative. We change the sign. Now that we know a little bit more about parallel and perpendicular lines, let's put this knowledge to use. For this skills check, I want you to determine if each pair of lines is perpendicular, parallel, or neither. So, if you think these 2 lines are perpendicular, you would write a in this box. If you think they're parallel, write b. And if you think they're neither, write c. Give these problems some thought, and make sure you think about what you're looking for. What does it mean to be perpendicular? What does it mean for lines to be parallel? Good luck. &gt;&gt; Remember, for perpendicular lines, they're negative reciporicals of one another. So, we're looking for slopes that are y over x, and negative x over y. While the slope of these two lines are opposite in sign, they're not reciprocals. I know the reciprocal of 2 is 1 half. So these lines can't be perpendicular. Parallel lines have the same slope. These aren't the same, so they're not parallel. It must be neither. For the second pair of lines, we know that they must be parallel. The slope is 3 in both cases, so b. Here, I do have opposite reciprocals of one another. The reciprocal of 2 5ths is 5 halves and the slopes are opposite in sign. I don't know what these lines look like, but I know that they cross at a 90 degree angle because they're perpendicular. This last one is really tricky. We need to remember that there is a 1 as the co-efficient in front of the variables. The reciprocal of 1 or 1 over 1 is still 1. So these are reciprocals of one another and they're opposite in sign so the lines are perpendicular. If you got some of these wrong, be careful that you weren't looking at the b or the y intercept. The y intercept doesn't determine whether or not lines are perpendicular or parallel. It's only the slope, the m. Here are three more sets of equations. We know these equations really represent lines, so tell me, is each pair perpendicular, parallel, or neither? Put the letter of the correct choice here, and as a hint, notice that all of these equations are in standard form. We can find the slope in the standard form using negative A over B. So what do you think for each of these? For this first equation, I have an A of negative 2, and a B of positive 3, so my slope is 2 3rd. For the second equation, the A is positive 3 and the B is positive 2. So I get a slope of negative 3 halves. The slops are opposite in sign, and reciprocals of one another, so they must be perpendicular. For the second pair of lines I know that the first slope is 3 4th and the second slope is 4 3rd.. These slopes are reciprocals of one another, but they're not opposite in sign so they can be perpendicular and are not the same so they can be parallel so they must be neither these lines will just intersect somewhere. For the last two equations, we can find that their slopes are both negative 2. So they're the same. They must be parallel, b. Through the last two skills checks, I hope you've gained a better understanding of what it means for lines to be perpendicular and parallel. &gt;&gt; What's really interesting about the last set of equations is that you can tell they are parallel just by looking at them. Remember, in standard form, we get the slope by finding negative A over B. So, we only need to look at the left side of the equation. Since these two equations have the same left side, that means, their slopes have to be equal. Equations with equal slopes are either the same line or they're parallel lines. We know these two lines can't be the same, because the right-hand side is different, so these lines must be parallel. &gt;&gt; Lets continue using our knowledge of parallel and perpendicular lines to solve this problem. I want you to find the equation of a line that passes through the point 1,2 and thats a parallel to this line. Before we find that equation, lets break it down into smaller steps. Whats the slope of this line, 3x plus 2y equals 9? And if we want a line that's parallel to it, what must the slope of our line be? Put the slopes in these boxes. We know for a standard form the slope is negative A over B, so our slope is negative 3 halves. If we want a line that's parallel to this line, well, our slopes have to be the same, so this also has to be negative 3 halves. Way to go if you got those right. So, we know the slope of our new line must be negative 3 halves and we have a point, so that means we can use point slope form to find the equation. Now that we know the slope and the point, we can use our point slope form to figure out the equation of the line. So I want you to figure this out. What's the equation of our line in standard from? Write your answer here. &gt;&gt; With point slope form, we have one point that's fixed and then we'll plug in the coordinates into this other point. 1 for the x and 2 for the y. Notice that I'm always using parentheses when I plug in. That's because I don't want to make a mistake with my negative signs. Since both these numbers are positive, I can drop the parenthesis. And on the other side of the equation, we have our slope, negative 3 halves. Now, I'm going to cross-multiply. Then, I carry out the distribution. Negative 3 times x is negative 3 x, and negative 3 times negative 1 is positive 3. On the right, I have 2 y and I have negative 4. I've re-written this line up here and now I'm going to solve for standard form. I want the constants on the right, and the x and y on the left. If you got negative 3 x minus 2 y equals negative 7, excellent work. Notice how every single term is negative. Well, we could just multiply every term by negative 1 and make the entire equation and all it's terms positive. So, an alternative answer would be 3 x plus 2 y equals 7. These are actually the same exact equation. This one has just been multiplied by a negative 1. This time we're going to find the equation of the line that's perpendicular to this line. It still passes through the same point 1, 2. We knew the slope of this line was negative 3 halves. So, what was the slope of our line be if it's going to be perpendicular to this line? Write your answer here. &gt;&gt; I know perpendicular lines have slopes that are opposite in sine. And they're reciporical of one another. This is negative 3 halves. So I know my slope must be positive. And it must be the reciprocal of 3 halves. So it must be 2 3rds. If you put positive 2 3rds, nice work. &gt;&gt; So now that we have the slope, and a point on our line, I want you to find the equation of our perpendicular line. Write the equation in standard form here. Good luck. &gt;&gt; We start with our point-slope form. Our slope is 2 3rds, x 1 is 1, and y 1 is 2. I can drop the parenthesis, and now we can cross multiply. Then I can distribute, and I get 2x minus 2, equals 3y minus 6. I've written this equation again, up here, and now I put it in standard form. I add 2 to both sides, to get 2x equals 3y minus 4, and then I subtract 3y from both sides. So 2x minus 3y is equal to negative 4. Here's our perpendicular line. That's some serious algebra, so if you got it right, excellent work. &gt;&gt; Well you have learned a lot about lines. We've learned about slope. We've learned about equations of lines. We've learned about horizontal and vertical lines. Let's do some practice problems, shall we? For this first practice problem, I want you to find the equation of the line. The first line is a vertical line that goes through the point negative 5, 6. You can put your answer here. For the second one, I want you to find the equation of a horizontal line that goes through the point negative 5, 6. And you can put your answer in this box. If you're not sure how to solve these problems, feel free to go back and review the videos on horizontal and vertical lines before you answer. The equation of the vertical line that goes through the point negative 5 6 is x equals negative five. What do we know about vertical lines? We know that vertical lines look like this. We know that vertical lines have undefined slope, and we also know that the equation of a vertical line is always going to be x equals a constant. Since this vertical line goes through the point Negative 5, 6. We know that no matter what value y is, x is always going to remain at negative 5. So, the equation of the vertical line through the point negative 5, 6 is X equals negative 5. For the second problem, the equation of the horizontal line that goes to the point negative 5, 6 is Y equals 6. What do we know about horizontal lines? We know they go left to right, or right to left. We know that the slope is 0, and we know their equation looks like y equals a constant. Now if we know that this horizontal line goes to the point negative 5,6, if I plot the point negative 5,6 on this horizontal line what I notice is no matter what value x is, y is always going to be 6. So I get the equation y equals 6. If you got these answers right, great work. Okay, let's try to find a couple more equations of lines. For these two problems we're given slightly different information. For the first problem, I want to find the equation of a line that goes through the point 3 negative 4, that has the slope of 0. You can put your answer in this box. For the second problem, I want you to find the equation of a line that goes through the point 3 negative 4. With undefined slope. And you can put your answer in this box. Good luck. &gt;&gt; Did you get y equals negative 4 for the first answer, and x equals 3 for the second answer? If so, way to go! Let's see how we got those answers. Similar to the last practice problems that we did, for the first problem we know that a slope of 0 means a horizontal line, and a horizontal line looks like this. And we know the equation is going to be y equals sum constant. If I put a point on the line, 3 negative 4. I know that, no matter what x equals, y is always going to equal negative 4. Which is why we get the equation, y equals negative 4. For the second problem, the key here is the undefined slope. We know that undefined slope means its a vertical line. And we know a vertical line looks like that, and I also know the equation of a vertical line is x equals a constant. When I plot the point on my vertical line, 3 negative 4, I can see that no matter what the value of y is, the x value always stays at 3. So, the equation is x equals negative 3. &gt;&gt; Now that you've had some practice finding equations of horizontal and vertical lines, let's try some other kinds of equations. For this problem I want you to find the equation of the line that goes through the points negative 2, negative 3 and 2, 7. I want you to write your answer in this box in standard form. Remember standard form is ax plus by equals c. Now remember you're going to have to find the slope between these two points before you can find the equation of the line. Just try your best. If you got 5x minus 2y equals negative 4, you did a great job. Let's see how we got that answer. Remember, the first thing we have to do is find the slope between these two points. We know that the equation for slope is y2 minus y1 over x2 minus x1. Now, to make sure I put the values in the right places, I always label one of the my points, x1, y1 and the other point, x2, y2. That way, I make sure I plug them into the right places. So when I find the slope, y2 minus y1 is, y2 is 7, minus y1 is negative 3 over x2 which is 2 minus x1 which is negative 2. 7 minus negative 3 is 10. 2 minus negative 2 is 4 and 10 over 4 can be reduced to 5 halves. So we know that the slope of our line. So we know the slope of our line is 5 halves. Now that we know the slope, we can find the equation of the line. In order to find the equation of the line, we use the equation m equals y minus y1 over x minus x1. Now I plug in what I know. The slope is 5 halves, and that's going to equal y minus y1, y1 is negative 3 over x minus x1 which is x minus negative 2. Let's go ahead and write these again. 5 halves equals y minus negative 3 is y plus 3 and x minus a negative 2 is x plus 2. Now I can simply cross multiply. When I cross multiply, I have 5 times x plus 2 equals 2 times y plus 3. I have to remember to distribute. After I distribute, I have 5x, plus 5 times 2 is 10, equals 2y plus 2 times 3 is 6. Since I want this equation in standard form, I'd need the x and y terms on the left side and the constant on the right side. So, I can subtract 10 from both sides to move the constant over to the right. And I have 5x equals 2y minus 4. 6 plus negative 10 is negative 4. And then I have to subtract 2y from both sides. And I get a final answer of 5x minus 2y equals negative 4. This next practice problem should be a little bit easier than the last one. We want the equation of the line through the point 0,2 and this time the slope is given to us and the slope is 3 4ths. Once again, write your answer in standard form and in this box. Did you get 3 x minus 4 y equals negative 8? If so, that is awesome. Now what makes this problem easier than the last one? Well first, the slope is given, so we don't have to calculate the slope. The other is if we look at the point 0, 2. The point 0, 2 is actually the y intercept because x is 0 and y is 2. Now if we know the slope and we know the y intercept, we can very easily use a slope intercept form and write y equals mx plus b which equals 3 4th times x plus 2 which is the y intercept. Since we want to write the equation in standard form, I'm going to go ahead and multiply the equation through by 4. Giving me 4y equals 3x plus 8. And if I want to write this in standard form. I need to move the 3x over to the other side. Which would give me negative 3x plus 4 y equals 8. Now you might be asking, why is this answer different from this answer? Well, they're actually the same. If I were to take this equation and multiply the whole equation through by negative 1, I'm going to get negative 1 times negative 3x gives me 3x negative 1 times positive 4y gives me negative 4y and negative 1 times positive 8 gives me negative 8. So as you can see this equation negative 3x plus 4y equals 8 is the same as the equation 3x minus 4y equals negative 8 Our convention typically use a math is that we do not have a negative coefficient to our x variable. This next practice problem, we're going to go back to finding the equation of a line through two points. But in this case I want you to write the answer, in slope intercept form here. &gt;&gt; The answer here is y equals negative 3 halves x plus 7 halves. Now remember, just because you see fractions, doesn't mean it's wrong. Let's see how we got that answer. Again, this is a two-part question. First, we have to find the slope. And then, we have to find the equation. So, first, let's find the slope. I know the equation of slope is y2 minus y1 over x2 minus x1. I'm going to go ahead and label my points, this is x1, y1 and this is x2, y2. Again, this helps me make sure I put the numbers in the right places. So, the slope y2 is negative 1 minus y1, which is 2, over x2, which is 3 minus x1, which is 1. So, we have negative 1 minus 2 is negative 3 over 3 minus 1 is 2. So, we know the slope is negative 3 halves, which is why you see negative 3 halves x in the equation. But, how did we get 7 halves? There's a couple different ways to do this. We also know that the slope is equal to y minus y1 over x minus x1. So, our slope was negative 3 halves and that's going to equal y minus y1, y minus 2 over x minus x 1, which is 1. And again, I can cross multiply. When I cross multiply, I have negative 3 times x minus 1 equals 2 times y minus 2. Now, I have to distribute. After I distribute, I have negative 3x. Negative 3 times negative 1 is positive 3 equals 2y. 2 times negative 2 is negative 4. To put this in slop- intercept form, to put this equation in slope-intercept form, the first thing I'm going to do is subtract 3 from both sides, and I get negative 3x equals 2y minus 7. If I just go ahead and add 4 to both sides, I get negative 3x plus 7 equals 2y. And I can still divide everything through by 2. And I get y equals negative 3 halves x plus 7 halves. And we know that negative 3 halves x plus 7 halves equals y, is the same as y equals negative 3 halves x plus 7 halves. Now, we're going to try a couple of problems with parallel and perpendicular lines. We've had practice finding the equations of horizontal and vertical lines, as well as finding the equations of lines given two points or given a point and a slope. This last problem, we're going to look at parallel and perpendicular lines. So, this last problem, we want to find the equation of a line. The first line goes through the point 2,4 and is parallel to the line 3x plus y equals 7. For the first problem, find the equation of the line that goes through the point 2,4 and is parallel to the line 3x plus y equals 7. For the second equation, find the equation of the line that goes through the point 2,4 and is perpendicular to the line 3x plus y equals 7. You can put your answers here and put them in slope-intercept form. These last two practice problems bring together a lot of what we learned in unit 3. To start the first problem, we have to know the slope of the given line and then find the slope of a line that is parallel to that line. So let's find the slope of the line 3x plus y equals 7. In order to find the equation of a line that's parallel to this line. I first have to find the slope of this line. If I simply subtract 3x from both sides I get that y equals negative 3x plus 7, which means the slope of this given line is negative 3. I know that parallel line if I want to find the slope of a line that's parallel to the given line. I know that parallel lines have the same slope. So, what I write is m parallel equals the original slope, which equals negative 3. This is just a shorthand notation to indicate parallel. So, the slope of the parallel line is equal to the slope of the original line which is equal to negative 3. To find the equation of the line, I want to label my points x1 and y1. And I can use the formula m equals y minus y1 over x minus x1. Since I know my slope is negative 3, I can write negative 3 over 1. Any whole number can be written as a fraction with 1 as the denominator. And that's going to equal y minus y1 is 4 over x minus x1 is 2. When I cross multiply, I have negative 3 times x minus 2 equals 1 times y minus 4. Now, I need to distribute. So when I distribute, I have negative 3 times x, negative 3 times negative 2 is positive 6 equals y minus 4. Since I want the answer in slope intercept form. If I just add 4 to both sides, I get negative 3x plus 10 equals y. And we know that's the same as y equals negative 3x plus 10. And, one quick check, we know that the slope of the parallel line is the same as the slope of the original line. And, since we put the answer in slope intercept form I can verify that it has the same slope. Now what about the perpendicular line? Since we want to find the equation of the perpendicular line. To 3x plus y equals 7. Once again, I start with the original slope which is negative 3, but I want the perpendicular slope. So the perpendicular slope is the negative reciplical of the original slope, which is going to be negative 1 over the original slope was negative 3. So a negative time a negative is a positive, so the slope of the perpendicular line is positive 1 3rd. Now that I know the slope, I can use my equation m, y minus y1, over x minus x1, which gives us 1 3rd equals y minus y 1 is 4, over x minus x 1 is 2. When I cross multiply I have 1 times x minus 2 equals 3 times y minus 4. At this point I need to distribute again. When I multiply x minus 2 times 1, I'm just left with x minus 2 and I have 3 times y and 3 times negative 4 is negative 12. Since I want the equation in slope intercept form I need y equals, so I'm going to add 12 to both sides and I get x plus 10 equals 3y and when I divide everything through by 3, I get y equals x over 3 or 1 3rd x plus 10 over 3. And that's the same as y equals 1 3rd x plus 10 3rd. And again, I can verify my slope is supposed to be 1 3rd, because it's the negative reciprocal of negative 3. And since we put it in slope intercept form, the slope is 1 3rd. If you got both these answers right, I would say you've learned a lot about lines. &gt;&gt; In the previous two lessons, we learned how to graph and write the equations of a line. In this lesson, we'll learn how to graph a linear inequality. So, instead of having an equal sign, we'll have a less than, greater than, less than or equal to, or greater than or equal to symbol. We'll learn how to do this by saving money. Let's say you have $200 in a savings account and each month you save exactly $100. What's an equation that you could write to model this situation? You can use this table to help you out. You can write your equation in here, and remember it should involve the variables x and the variables y. X stands for the number of months, and y stands for the amount of money you saved. &gt;&gt; Well, if no time has passed, then we start with $200. That's how much was initially in our savings account. We know each month we save exactly $100. So, after one month I would have $300, and then, if another month goes by, I save another $100, and we can easily fill out the rest of the table. But remember, in algebra, we want to know for x number of months how much money would we have. Well we start with 200 and then we multiply the number of months by 100. So we also need to add 100x. Now we've related the amount of money we saved with the number of months, x. We have this equation, y is equal to 200 plus 100x. Congrats if you got this right. I know this isn't the easiest algebraic reasoning, but if you work from a table and build it up, you can get here and we can switch these two terms around. I could have the 100x come first, followed by 200. This is the same equation. &gt;&gt; We know that we could graph the equation like before. Here's the graph and we can see if the y intercept 200 is right here. Our slope is 100 because you save $100 for every month that goes by. Another way of saying that is our y value increase by 100 for every month that passes. But this equation tells a very narrow story. It assumes that you save exactly $100 each month. But what if you saved more than that? Is there a way to represent this in a, on a graph? Let's try and figure that out together. First, let's consider a few points. Which of these points would represent a time when we saved more than $100 in a month? Check all the boxes that apply. After one month I would have $250. Well, this is below our line so that means we saved less than $100 in a month. We started with $200 and we only gained $50. We should have gained more than a $100. For 2 months and $500, we can see that, that is above our line. This means we must have saved more than $100 in one of these months. I know this because after 2 months, I should expect to have exactly $400 if I were to have saved exactly $100 a month. But we have more. So this one works. This one's a little bit tricky. After 1 month, I saved exactly 300 dollars. Well, this means I saved exactly 100 dollars in that 1 month. So I didn't save more than 100 dollars. So this one's out. This point means that, after 3 months, I saved 400 dollars. That would put me here. There are other points above this line that represent saving more than $100 per month. For example, after 1 month, I could have also saved $400 or after 1 month I could have also saved $450 or even $500. Similar reasoning could be used at 2 months, I could have saved maybe $600. Or 700, so there's tons of points farther above this region. Because all these y values are the amount of money saved falls above this line, we can change our equation into an inequality. We want our savings amount to be greater than the exact amount of $200 plus the $100 per month. So this is the inequality we can write. Notice that linear inequalities contain 2 variables, just like linear equations. This allows us to find a point, x and y, that satisfies this condition. For example I can use this point and plug in 2 for x and 500 for y and I should get a true statement. And when I do, I get 500 is greater than 400, so yes this is true. Also remember from before, we said that one 300 couldn't be a point for our inequality. We didn't save more than $100 per month. So I need some way to represent that on the line. I can't actually include the points on the line, so I'm going to use a dashed line to exclude them. We know any of the points above this line satisfy our inequality. This shaded reason up above would represent every instance when we saved more than $100 in a month. Let's say you allowed yourself to save exactly $100 or more per month. So now we could be greater than or equal to. Well, this point can now be a point on our line. If you allow yourself to save exactly $100 or more in a month then now we can include this point in our inequality. We can see that by plugging it in we get a true statement. 300 is greater than or equal to 300. I need to change my graph to reflect that so, instead of using a dash line I'll use a solid one. That will represent the equal to part. When graphing linear inequalities, we use a solid line for greater than or equal to, and less than or equal to. If we see the greater than or the less than sign, then we use a dashed line. Let's walk through graphing a different linear inequality. When we graph a linear inequality we want to start by graphing a boundary line. The boundary line would be made up of the points if this inequality were an equation. I want you to use your knowledge of slope and the Y intercept to figure which of these points would be on the boundary line. Check all of them that apply. &gt;&gt; The y intercept would be positive 1, so it would be here. Then, the slope is negative 3 4ths, so I move down 3 units and right 4 units. So I'd wind up here. I could have also gone up three units and then left four units, which would put me at this point here. So I know my line should go through these three points. So here's the next question. Should the line be dashed, or should be solid? We have a less than inequality sign, so it should be dashed. The last part of graphing an inequality is figuring our which region to shade. We could either shade this top region, region 1, or this lower region, region 2. One of these has to be correct. To figure it out, we can use a test point. We can choose any point in one of the regions to determine whether or not it makes the inequality true. I want to make sure I don't choose a point along this line. Because these points have been excluded. It's dashed. The origin is usually a great point to check. It's zeroes, and it's easy to plug in. So you check it, and determine. Should we shade region 1 or region 2? If 0,0 makes a true statement here, we want region 2. If 0, 0 doesn't make a true statement in this inequality, then we want region 1. &gt;&gt; It turns out, I want to shade region 2. If I plug in the values of 0 for x and for y, I can see that I get 0 is less than 1. This is a true statement. So, I know this point satisfies this inequality. So, all of these points also satisfy this inequaltity. Try testing some other points to be sure. You'll find that they all do. Here is another linear inequality. This time I want you to choose one of these lines that you would start with to graph this inequality. Would you use line a, line b, line c or line d? Make your choice. We should use line d. Remember, we can start graphing linear inequalities like a line. We start with the y intercept, which is that positive 3. Then we travel down 2 and right 3 units. We can continue doing that to get other points in the line. So we know our line should be here, but should it be dashed or should it be solid? Make your choice. We know the line should be solid, because we have a greater than or equal to symbol. Another way to confirm or think about this is to try a test point on the line. If we plug in x and y, we should get a true statement. If x is 0, and if y is 3, then we can see we get 3 is greater than or equal to 3. Because we can be greater than or equal to, this is a true statement. So this point works. And any of these points along the line will satisfy the inequality. That's why we keep it solid. Finally, which region should be shaded? The lower region, region 1, or the higher region, region 2? &gt;&gt; We should shade region 2. I can use the test point 0,0 and plug in these values to check. If I plug 0 in for y, and 0 in for x, I get 0 is greater than or equal to 3. But wait, this isn't true. I know zero is actually less than 3. Because this point doesn't satisfy our inequality and we wind up with a statement that's not true, we don't want any of this region. We only want the other region. Any points on this side of the line or on the line would work. So, here's the final graph of our linear inequality. Sometimes we might run into inequalities that are not in slope intercept form. We can handle these inequalities much like we did linear equations. We can try and solve this inequality for y. First I subtract x from both sides, to get negative 4y is less than or equal to negative 12 minus x. I'm going to rearrange the terms here. So, I'll have negative 4y less than or equal to negative x minus 12. Notice that the sign in front of the term stays with it. The x is still negative, as before. And this 12 is still negative, as before. Finally, we divide every term by negative 4. Here's where we need to be very careful. We're dividing by a negative, and this is an inequality symbol. Just like from before, we know we need to reverse the inequality sign. The other thing we want to watch out for are the negatives on the other side. A negative divided by a negative makes a positive, and the same is true here. So we're left with, y is greater than or equal to 1 4th x plus 3. And don't forget about that 1 as the coefficient in front of x. That's how we can get positive 1 4th. Now that we have this inequality, we can graph it just like before. We'll start by plotting the line. Then we'll determine whether or not that line should be dashed or solid. And finally, we can determine the region by using a test point. We plug in a point to see if it makes the inequality true. If it does, we want that region. If not, we'll take the other one. For the first practice problem, which of these graphs represents the linear inequality 4x plus 3y is greater than or equal to 12? Put the letter of the graph in the box. &gt;&gt; The first graph was correct. Lets see why. Let's solve this inequality for y so we can get the boundary line. First, we subtract 4 x from both sides, then we divide each term by 3 to get y is greater than or equal to negative 4 3rd x plus 4. This inequality is in slope intercept form so I can graph the line that represents the boundary. The y-intercept is 4, and my slope is negative 4 3rd. Down 4, right 3. That will get me to my next point. This is the boundary line for the inequality. I draw it solid, because the symbol is greater than or equal to. So, points on this line do satisfy this inequality. Next, I choose a test point, like the origin, to determine which region to shade. This region or this region. Plugging in zero for x and zero for y, I get, 0 is greater than or equal to 4. We know this is not true. So, points in this region do not satisfy the inequality. We want points in this region, so we shade above. Amazing work if you got that one right. For the second practice question, I want you to find the graph that represents this inequality. Is it a, b, or c? &gt;&gt; This one was c. If you got it right, excellent work. Just like in the first practice problem, we want to get the boundary line, so let's solve this inequality for y. First we subtract 3x from both sides, then we divide both sides of the inequality by negative 5. Remember, both these terms need to be divided by negative 5. And here we need to be very careful. We divided by a negative so we need to reverse the inequality sign. Now we're ready to graph. The y intercept is negative 3, which is here. 3 units down from the origin. Our slope is positive 3 5ths, so we rise 3 units up and run 5 units to the right. Now, I have two points and I can draw my boundary line. I have a less than symbol so I need to draw a dash line, because I can't include points on the line. And finally, we use a test point to determine which region should be shaded, the top region or the lower region. If I plug in 0 for x and 0 for y I get 0 is less than negative 3. I know this statement isn't true, so I don't want points in this region. I want this region. This should be my solution region and I can test another point in this region to be sure I'm going to use the point zero negative four and remember you could choose any point in this region. It wouldn't matter. If I plug in 0 for x and negative 4 for y, I get negative 4 is less than negative 3. This is a true statement, so yeah, I did this problem correctly. Here's the third and final practice for this lesson. Which graph do you think represents this linear inequality? Good luck. &gt;&gt; Here, the correct answer was b. Great job if you got that one right. First, let's solve this inequality for y. I can subtract 10 from both sides to get 5 y on the right, and 2 x minus 10 on the left. Then, I divide each term by 5. So, 2 5th x minus 2 is greater than or equal to y. We're used to seeing y on the left side of the inequality, so let's rearrange this inequality. So, I have y is less than or equal to 2 5th x minus 2. Notice this inequality symbol is pointing towards the y in both inequalities. That's a great way that you can check to make sure you wrote it correctly. First, we plot our y-intercept at negative 2. And then, we use our slope, 2 5th. We rise 2 units and run to the right 5 units. So there's the next point. I use a solid line here because that could be equal to the line. We have y is less than or equal to, so points on this should satisfy this inequality. Again, I'm going to use the origin as a test point, and I get 0 is less than or equal to negative 2. This statement's not true, so I don't want this region. I need to shade below. And here's our graph. Throughout this unit, we've learned how to graph linear equations and linear inequalities. We're going to wrap this unit up by talking about functions. All the linear equations that we've encountered are actually functions and we're going to learn why. Functions take some sort of input like Bob, they do something mysterious to it, and then get an output like o. This mysterious part is the part we're trying to figure out. It's the description or rule that changes Bob into o. Here is the list of the names of some people. These are going to be my input and here is a list of outputs. I'm going to pair each person with an output by showing some errors. Bob goes to the letter o, Jill goes to the letter i, and Ralph goes to the letter a, and so on. So in this relation, what's the relationship between these inputs and these outputs? Finish out this sentence using the best choice. Well Bob gets mapped to o, Jill to i, Ralph to a, and so on. Every person gets mapped to the vowel that's in their name, even Peter. So these outputs are all the vowels in the name of the person. We can also think of these inputs as one set, and these outputs as another set. Our relation is a rule that describes the relationship between this set of inputs and this set of outputs. In this case, the relationship is the vowels found in each persons name. This relation though is actually very special, it's actually a function. A function is unique because the inputs always give the same outputs. For example, Bob will always give us a letter o. Functions may have two different inputs like Tim and Jill that both produce the same output, in this case Jill and Tim both give us i. This is okay. This would not be a function because we can never have two different outputs, a and o, for one input, in this case, Bob. For a function, each input must correspond with exactly one output. So there can only be one arrow leading from any input to an output. &gt;&gt; Here I have one relation between age and person. The age are the inputs, and the type of person is the output. Here's a different relation: This one has an input of color, and this one has an output of fruit. I want you to tell me whether each relation is a function or not. Type yes or no in the boxes. &gt;&gt; I know a 5 year old is considered to be a child, and so is a 2 year old. A person who is 16 would be considered a teenager, and people for these last ages would be considered adults. When checking to see if this is a function, I want to make sure that my inputs correspond to exactly 1 output. In each case, I only have one arrow leaving, or going away, towards the output. So yes, this is a function. And remember, just like last case with Jill and Tim, who's outputs were i, we have 5 and 2, who's outputs were both at child. We can havt two inputs that make the same output, but we can't have two outputs from one input. For the second relation I know the color red can correspond to a strawberry or to a raspberry. Notice this input has 2 different outputs. If I say the word red, I'm not sure what output I'm talking about. I could be talking about a strawberry or a raspberry. I don't know. So this is definitely not a function. It breaks our rule. This input has two outputs. We find the same case to be true with yellow. It could correspond to a banana or a lemon. If an input has two outputs even once, then it's not a function. So we only need to stop once we see that the first time. &gt;&gt; So we know functions are a special relationship between a set of inputs and a set of outputs. This can work for objects and it can also work for numbers. Here's a set of numbers and here's another set of numbers. When we think of a coordinate point, we usually think of the x as the input and the y as the output. So these would be inputs, and these would be the corresponding outputs. Knowing that information, is this set of order pairs a function? And is this set of ordered pairs a function? Write yes or no in these boxes. As a hint, make a list of the inputs and the outputs, just like before, and then draw the arrows to map it out. Try your best. &gt;&gt; Here my inputs are 4, 1, 4 and 5. So I list this here. I don't need to list this 4 twice so I'm going to erase this one. My outputs are 3, 2, 5 and negative 1. I draw my arrows to represent the ordered pairs. 4 is with 3, 1 is with 2, 4 is with 5, and 5 is with negative 1. Notice that I have an input leading to two outputs. So this first one is definitely not a function. We can see this more easily because the input repeats. If the input repeats, then that means it produces two different outputs which we know can't be true. So, if we have one x-value producing two different y-values, we know it's not a function. Here's a mapping diagram for the second set. The arrows indicate the ordered pairs, and I see that each input corresponds to exactly one output. So yes, this is a function. Lets try using this concept of function to look at a graph. Remember at the beginning, I said that linear equations always represent functions, we know this because the input always produces exactly one output and we actually have a way of testing it. We can use a vertical line test to determine if a graph represents a set of points that is a function. If a vertical line only crosses the graph once then the graph represents a function. Just like in this case we know every x value on this graph has exactly one corresponding Y value. We know every input on this graph has exactly one corresponding output, or y value. So in this case we know the graph and its linear equation represent a function. Here's a completely different equation that you've never seen before. And this is its graph. If we use the vertical line test on this function. We can see that it hits the function once here, and then the vertical line crosses twice at two different places. This happens for many points along the graph. So we know this graph and this equation do not represent a function. Let's move over a quill line a little bit back and look at it when x equals 4. So here's our vertical line x equals 4 and I can see that I have two points on my graph. I have the point 4, 2 and 4, negative 2. Notice that the same input x equals 4 produces two different outputs, positive 2 or negative 2. Again this is why the graph is not a function. Lets use this vertical line test and test some other graphs. Is this graph a function? Yes or no. If I do the vertical line test, I can see that vertical lines only hit the graph at one point. So yes, this is a function. How about this circle, is it a function? &gt;&gt; If we do the vertical line test on the circle, this vertical line only intersects with the circle once, but I can see at other places the vertical lines hit twice. That means this input at x equals 1 has two different outputs. We could be up here or we could be down here. So no, this isn't a function. How about this one? Do you think it's a function? I can see that vertical lines would only intersect the graph once. So yes, this is a function. Every x value has one corresponding y value. And finally, what about this one? This one wouldn't be a function. Even though this vertical line only intersects the graph once, we have other vertical lines that intersect 2 or 3 times so definitely not a function. For functions, we learn that they have a certain rule. We start with an input, something mysterious happens, and then, we get an output. This mysterious part represents the changes we make to go from the input to the output. For example, if I had an input of 1, I could get an output of 3. Something's happened here. You might have thought that I just added 2 to the number. Well, here's some other inputs. If I put in a 2, I get out a 5. And if I put in a 3, I get out a 7. So the question is, what's happening to our inputs? So, based on these inputs and outputs, what rule or expression could we write for this function? If I put in x, I would get out y. What are we doing to x? That's the rule I want you to write here. I know if I multiply 1 by 2 and then add 1, I would get 3. Let's see if this same rule applies in the other cases. I can take my input of 2, multiply it by 2, and then add 1 to get 5. The same rule works for 3. 3 times 2 is 6, plus 1 is 7. So, for any input of x, I just multiply it by 2 and then add 1. That's my rule. &gt;&gt; Because functions are so unique and have an input and output, we have another way of representing it. Instead of using y, we'll use something else. We'll use f of x, or a function of x because the output relies on the input x. F of x is the name of the function that represents the output. And x is our input variable. And this side of the equation describes how we change x. To find the value or output of a function, we use substitution. For example, we could evaluate this function for x equals 3. My input is 3, so I plug it in. I want to find the output, or f of 3, by carrying out this math. So, here, the output, when x is 3, is 7. When you see a statement like this, you really want to think of it in terms of the outputs and inputs. When the input x is equal to 3, the output of the function or the y value is 7. We don't have to evaluate our function for just numbers though. We could also use another expression. For example, if my input x was 3 x squared, I would plug it into my function. So, the output of 3 x squared would be 6 x squared plus 1. This would be the answer containing a variable. Notice, it's not just a number. Here's a new function and I want you to try and evaluate it at these inputs. Put your final results in the boxes. Good luck. &gt;&gt; For the first one, we plug in 3, in for x. So I have negative 2 times 3 plus 7. So I get negative 6 plus 7, which is 1. For the next one, I plug in 0 for x. And I wind up with 7. For f of negative 2, I plug in negative 2 for my x variable. That's my input. Negative 2 times negative 2 is positive 4 and these numbers sum to 11. For this last input, I have 4x squared, so I know my answer is going to contain a variable. I substitute 4x squared as my input and negative 2 times 4 is negative 8. So I have negative 8x squared for my first term. And then positive 7 added to the end. Great job if you got all of those right. Here is a different function and I've labelled it g of x. Functions don't have to always use the letter f. We often use the letter as f, g, and h, because it's the convention for algebra. So using this function, I want you to find these outputs g of 3, g of 0, g of negative 2, and g of 4. And be careful when squaring your input. For this first problem, I plug in 3 for x, 3 squared is 9, and 5 times 3 is 15. Summing up these numbers I get 30. For g of zero, I let x equals zero, and that leaves me with 6. For g of negative 2, I substitute negative 2n for x. Negative 2 squared is positive 4. And then 5 times negative 2 is negative 10. If I add these numbers up, I get zero. For g of 4, I substitute 4 in for x. 4 squared is 16. And 5 times 4 is 20. This sum is 42. So when my input was 4, my output is 42. Excellent work if you got all those right. Believe it or not, you're already a quarter of the way through the course. Excellent work. In the last unit, we learned about linear equations and inequalities. We looked at how they can be represented using tables, graphs, and equations. In this unit, we'll continue that approach. We'll look at not just one line, but two. Two lines or two linear equations are considered to be a systems of equations. Let's try to make meaning of these systems of equations by renting a car. You're going to rent a car from a car company called Car-nival. You have $45 to spend on the car rental and Car-nival is going to charge $5 for a registration fee and $10 per hour for renting the car. So we're going to figure out what's the longest time you can rent the car. You might already be able to solve this problem in your head, but we're going to try a different approach. We're going to use systems. &gt;&gt; We know a system of equation involves two lines. So let's try and graph two lines about our problem. Here the x axis is going to represent the number of hours, and the y axis is going to represent our money. Knowing that you have $45 to spend on the car rental, which of these equations represents the amount of money you can spend? Choose the best answer. If you chose y equals 45, excellent work. You have 45 hours to spend on the car rental, which means this amount can't change. On the graph, this means that the y value should be constant, it should always remain the same. If the y value is always 45 then that must mean I have a horizontal line. That would be this choice. The first choice would mean that I only have $5 to spend, which we know isn't true. The last choice would mean that, I drove the car for 45 hours, x is in hours, so x is 45. We know this isn't right. We know this equation isn't true. The amount of money we have doesn't depend on the number of hours, x. So this equation's out. For renting our car we found an equation and a line that represents this statement. Now let's try and tackle the cost of the car rental. Car-nival will charge a $5 registration fee just for us to get the keys to the car, and that's not driving it anywhere. Then they'll charge an additional $10 per hour for renting the car. So let's come up with an equation for this statement. If x is the total number of hours for renting the car, and y is the total cost of renting the car, which of these equations would represent our total cost? Try creating a table if you feel stuck. Think about what you would pay for 1 hour of renting the car and 2 hours of renting the car. Maybe you can find the pattern. This is the correct equation. If you got it, excellent work. If I don't drive the car anywhere or drive it for zero hours, I still have to pay $5. That's my registration fee. For driving it one hour, I pay ten more dollars. So I have to add ten to five, to get 15. Two hours would $25 and three hours would cost $35, and so on. So when x is zero, we get a y value of 5. That makes sense for this equation. When x is 1, we get a y value of 15. That also makes sense. This 5 is the fixed or constant part of renting the car. Anyone would have to pay this. The variable part of renting the car is the 10 times x, since you spend $10 for each hour that you drive the car. We know the cost of the car depends on the number of hours, x. Let's take our 2 equations and plot them on the same coordinate grid. Now that we have 2 lines, we have a system of equations. We can represent the system using 2 equations or graphically using 2 lines. This first line indicates that you can spend $45 on the car rental, that's the most you're willing to pay. This second line represents the cost of the car, notice that the line continues to increase up into the right. This makes sense because the cost will continue to increase if we rented the car for more hours. You pay 10 more dollars for each hour you rent the car and that also is reflected on our graph. Knowing this information, what's the longest amount of time you can rent the car. Write your answer here. The longest time that we can rent the car is 4 hours. The maximum amount of money you can spend is $45. And we can see that the cost of the car rental intersects or meets our maximum amount at 4 hours. That's when the cost of the car rental would be $45. This system of equation has exactly one solution and it is a point of intersection. This point satisfies both of the equations. If I plug in an x value of 4 and a y value of 45, both equations should be true. Let's see if that works. Sure enough, in the end, we get true statements. If we can understand that the solution to a system is a point of intersection, then we can use this to solve all sorts of other problems. But before we get into solving other problems we're going to see if a point is a intersection to a system, and look at other types of systems. The x and y values make both equations true. This is how we can check whether or not the point is actually a solution to our system of equations. &gt;&gt; Here are two other equations. I want you to determine if 20, 40 is the point of intersection for this system. What do you think? No is the right answer here, if you got it, great work. We can check to see if this point is the solution to our system by plugging in the values of x and y, x is 20 and y is 40. Be careful with the second equation, we know that the x should be 20 so we want to make sure we plug that into the second term here. Just because the variables come in order in our point doesn't mean they'll appear in order in our equation. So be careful when you plug in. Our first equation checks, 20 equals 20. Our second equation doesn't check. We know 40 does not equal 15. So this point can't be a solution for our system. It's not the point of intersection. &gt;&gt; Let's get back to renting cars. This time you want to rent a car, and you're comparing the cost between two companies, Car-nival and Rent-a-Car. Car-nival's the same as before. They're going to charge $10 for a registration fee and $10 per hour for renting the car. Rent-a-car is a little bit different. They're going to charge $30 for a registration fee and $6 per hour for renting the car. So, which company's the better deal? Is it Car-nival, Rent-a-Car, does it depend, do they cost the same, or would you rather teleport? This is one of those questions you really want to take your time on. Try to create a table of values for Car-nival and Rent-a-Car. You can let x be the number of hours and y be the cost of the rental car. You can use the table to investigate this or even create a graph. Try your best. It turns out that it depends. Let's see why. We saw earlier that Carnival charges $10 for a registration fee, and $10 per hour for renting the car. Rent-a-car charges $30 for a registration fee, and $6 per hour, or x, that we rent the car. This would be the total cost. Let's see a table of values and these two equations graphs. Here are our two equations and the lines for our graph. And here's a table of values. X was the number of hours of renting the car, and this y represents the cost for a Carnival car rental. The second y represents the cost for a Rent-a-Car, car rental. We can see at one hour, that Rent-a-car cost more than Carnival. We also see that on the graph. Rent-a-car cost $36, and Carnival costs $20. In this region of the graph, we can see that Carnival is the better option. It's cheaper, or the costs, the y value, is below that of Rent-a-car. But, we can see at other times, like 7 hours, that Rent-a-Car is the better option. It's cheaper. We also see that on our graph. Rent-a-car cost $72, and Carnival cost $80. So, it depends. Carnival is usually better for the shorter car rentals, and Rent-a-Car is better for the longer car rentals. So it turns out that the better deal depends on how long we want to rent the car for. Well, I want you to figure this question out. When would the car companies cost the same? How long would the rental take? And how much money would it cost? For the cost, don't include the dollar sign. I already have that listed for you. &gt;&gt; We know the companies cost the same, at five hours, and the cost is $60. This also makes sense because this is our point of intersection. It's the point that makes both of these equations true. If x were equal to 5 we could plug that in here. 6 times 5 is 30 plus 30 would be $60 in total. That would be the cost for Rent-a-Car. For Car-nival we could also plug 5 in for x. 5 times 10 would be 50 plus 10 would be 60. So yes, this point is the solution or the intersection for the two equations. &gt;&gt; Here are two other rental car companies, Mini-Hoopties and Rad Rentals. This time you want to compare the costs between the two companies. So let's start by comparing the registration fees. Based on the graph what are the registration fees for the two companies? You can enter your answer here, and don't include the dollar sign. I've already listed that. Well, for Mini-Hoopties, if I drive the car for zero hours or if I just get the keys, I have to pay $20. And for Rad Rentals, I would have to pay $10. Looks like Mini-Hoopties is costing a bit more. But maybe that's not always the case. Now that we know that information about the registration fees, what do you notice about the hourly car rental rate? Think about this for both of the companies and then answer this question. Which lengths of time could you rent a car from either company and pay the same amount? Check any of these answers that apply. Or maybe they never cost the same or maybe they always cost the same. &gt;&gt; It turns out the two car companies would never cost the same. For a one hour car rental, Rad Rentals would cost $20 and Mini-Hoopties would cost $30. We know Rad Rentals is the cheaper option here. The same is true for a five hour car rental. Rad Rentals would cost $60. And Mini-Hoopties would cost $70. We can see on our graph that Rad Rentals, or its cost, is always below the cost of Mini-Hoopties. Getting a car from Rad Rentals will be always be less than one from Mini-Hoopties. So, we know they'll never cost the same. &gt;&gt; And this system of equations is interesting, because we have two parallel lines. It turns out these lines will never intersect. We can see that the lines are parallel. And we also know that from their equation. The slope of each line is 10. That means we pay 10 more dollars for each hour we rent the car. The same is true for a car from Mini-Hoopties. We pay 10 more dollars for taking the car out for an hour, ten more dollars for another hour. If we look at the equations, we can see the slopes are the same and the y intercepts are different. Any two equations with these properties will be parallel lines and they'll never intersect. So there won't be a solution. Let's look at one last example comparing car companies. Here's my coordinate grid. X is the number of hours or the time of the car rental, and y is the cost in dollars. This company, Numerator Cars, has already been graphed for you. We're going to compare Numerator Cars to Carz-to-Go. Carz-to-go charges $5 per hour, and a $10 registration fee. So what equation could you write to represent the cost of a car rental from Cars to Go. Write that equation in this box. &gt;&gt; The equation should be y equals 5 x plus 10. If you got that right, excellent algebraic thinking. We know we pay $10, that's our fixed cost, the registration fee. The 5 times x comes from the $5 per hour. We pay $5 per every hour we drive the car. And, of course, if we add those two parts together we get y, our total cost. I've graphed the cost of both Numerator Cars and Carz-to-Go on the same coordinate grid. Using this information I want you to figure out, when does a car from Numerator Cars and Carz-to-Go cost the same? Check all these answers that you think apply. For one hour we can see that both the car companies would cost $15, so this one's correct. For ten hours, it's not on my graph, so I have to think a little bit harder. I could plug in the value of ten in for x. If x were equal to ten, Carz-to-Go would cost $60, and Numerator Cars would also cost $60. That's pretty simple because, well, they have the same equation. The same would be true for 15 hours and 20 hours and it turns out, this is true for every hour. We know the equations are identical so their cost should always be the same. This question was pretty tricky so don't worry if you didn't get it right on your first try. So, this is our third and last type of system. When we have two equations that are identical, the lines overlap. They have an infinite number of intersections or solutions, so every x and y will satisfy both of the equations. For our car companies, this just meant that it didn't matter where I got my car from. I'd always have to pay the same amount. Let's use our knowledge of types of systems to figure out what type of system this is? Do these two equations represent intersecting lines, parallel lines, or are they identical? Choose the best answer. These two lines are parallel. We can solve each equation for y, so we can compare the two equations. Let's solve this one for y. I can subtract negative 2 x from each side of the equation, and I get negative 3 y is equal to negative 2 x plus 6. Then, I divide each side of my equation by negative 3 to get y is equal to two-thirds x minus 2. These two equations are in different forms, but represent the same equation. I can see that my original two equations have the same slope, and different y-intercepts. This must mean that they're parrallel. &gt;&gt; Try figuring out what type of system this is. You can solve each equation for y and then think about their slopes and the y intercept. If the slopes are different they intersect, if they're the same they're parallel, or you might just have the same equation, which means you know you're in the last case. Good luck. It turns out that these equations are identical. Let's see why. I can add x to both sides to get 2y is equal to x plus 14. Then I divide both sides of my equation by 2. So, I have 1y is equal to 1 half x plus 7. The second equation is more simple to solve for y. All we need to do is to divide each term by 6. So I have one y. 3 6ths of x is the same as 1 half x. And then seven. I know the left side equation is equal to the right side of the equation, so I can just rewrite my equation with both sides flipped. And sure enough, I have identical equations. They share all the same points. &gt;&gt; What type of system do you think this one is? These two lines are going to intersect. For the first equation, I just need to subtract 2x from both sides. And I get 1y is equal to negative 2x plus 3. For the second equation, I need to add 20 to both sides to isolate the 10y. So I have 5x plus 20 is equal to 10y. Finally, I divide each term by 10 and I get 1y is equal to the 2 plus 1 half x. I'm going to rewrite this equation flipped over, the y's in the left, and 1 half x plus 2 is on the right. When I look at the two equations, I notice that their slopes are different so they must intersect. We know that we can solve a system of equations graphically. Let's consider some rental car companies again. This time, we're going to look at a new one called Lucky Cars. Lucky Cars is going to charge $12 for a registration fee and $7 per hour. Car-nival, the one we seen before, charges $10 for a registration fee and $10 per hour. Let's look at these graphs. Here are the two equations for the cost of the rental car. And here are the two lines. So, when looking at this graph, we can see that the intersection lies somewhere in this region. Based on our graph, which of these points represents the intersection or when the companies cost the same? It turns out for this graph, it's impossible to tell. We can see that the intersection occurs somewhere in this region and it looks like it's about right here. We're not on a grid line or a certain point, so it's really hard to tell or determine just from the graph. So we need some sort of other method to figure this out. Because the graph involved estimating, we can't find the exact coordinates of the point of intersection. So, here's another way that we can find it, substitution. For this method, we solve for one of the variables, and then we make a substitution for that variable into the other equation. Notice that for these two equations, both of them are solved for y. I have y alone on one side of the equation. Notice that both of these y's are the same variable. So, what we can do is replace this y with what this y is equal to. We're going to take 10x plus 10 and move it or substitute it in for y. This is the process of substitution. Now, we have one equation with one variable and we can solve for this variable. We subtract 7x from both sides to get 3x plus 10 equals 12. Then we subtract 10 from both sides to get 3x equals 2. And finally, we divide both sides by three. So 1x is equal to 2 3rds. Remember, x is the variable that represents how long we're renting the car. So, we rented it for 2 3rds of an hour. Alright. Here's a throwback to fractions. What's 2 3rds of an hour in minutes? Write your answer here. And don't worry about the unit. I've already included it. We know 1 3rd of an hour would be 20 minutes, so 2 3rds of an hour would have to be 40 minutes. And if I go 3 3rds of an hour, well, that's 60 minutes, that's my full hour. If you put 40 minutes, nice work. Here's another system of equations. The second equation already has one of the variables solved for or isolated, it's x it's a loan on one side of the equal sign. So what expression can be substituted in for this x, what could we put in this box? &gt;&gt; Well, we know x equals negative 1 minus y, so we can take this expression and plug it in, or substitute it for x. So, what does y equal in this case? Finish out this math. You can write your answer here. First we distribute the positive 2 to negative 1 and negative y. So I get negative 2 minus 2y plus 5y equals 7. Next I combine the like terms to get positive 3y. We can add 2 to both sides to get 3y equals 9 and then divide both sides by 3 to get y equals 3. Way to go if you got 3. But remember, we're still not done. We only found one variable, and we need a point of intersection. So what does x equal? You can write your answer here. &gt;&gt; We know y equals 3, so which equation do you think it's easier to plug into, the first or the second? I would argue it's easier to plug into the second one. X is already solved for, so if I plug in 3 for y I can easily find the value of x. So I get x is negative 4. If you used this equation, that would have worked, too. You still should have gotten x equal to negative 4. &gt;&gt; We know negative 4, 3 is a solution to our system of equation. Well, we can also check it to be sure. Here are the 2 original equations, and here was our solution. We want to check our solution in each equation and make sure that we wind up with true statements at the end. Try doing that, and make sure these numbers match. We replace x with negative 4 and y with positive 3. 2 times negative 4 is negative 8 and 5 times 3 is 15. Adding these two numbers together, we get 7 is equal to 7. This is true. For the second equation, we replace x and y, and we get negative 4 equal to negative 4. This is also true. Great, another way that we can check to make sure we have the right answer. Let's consider another system of equations. When we perform substitution, we need to choose one variable and one of the equations that is easiest to solve for. For example, in this equation, we want to think, is it easier to get x alone, or y alone? Also, we could consider the other equation. Do we want to solve for this x, or this y? We need one of these equations to be in the form, x equals something, or y equals something in order to perform substitution. So, what do you think in this case? Which of these variables would be easiest to solve for? Choose the best one. If you actually solve for some of these variables, you might see that some are better than others. Think about why that is. Maybe some have negatives. Maybe some have fractions. You want the easiest one. We don't want to solve for x or y in the second equation, since we would need to move the terms around and divide by a coefficient in front of the variable. For example, if we try to solve for x, we would have to subtract 3y from both sides first, and then, divide every term by 5. That's kind of messy. A similar process happens if we try and solve for y, so these two are out. If we try to solve for x in this first equation we have to divide each term by 2, this would leave me with x is equal to 2 minus 1 half y. Remember, there's a 1 as a coefficient in front of the y, so this is really negative 1 half times y. I prefer to avoid working with fraction in my substitution process, so this x isn't necessarily the best choice. If I try and solve for y, I could add y to both sides, then, rewriting my problem up here, I could subtract 2x from both sides and I would get y is equal to negative 2x plus 4. Because I have integer coefficients like negative 2 and 4, it's easier to work with this in a substitution. If you want to solve for x and work with a fraction in your substitution, that's okay. Choose the method that you feel most comfortable doing. After we solve this equation for y, we'll have y equals negative 2x plus 4. Now we're ready for substitution. Using substitution, I want you to find the solution or the point of intersection for this system of equations, these two lines. Enter your numbers here, and here. And good luck. &gt;&gt; Notice that I have y and y in both of these equations. That means I can substitute negative 2x plus 4 in for y. This is my substitution step. Next we distribute a positive 3 to negative 2x and positive 4, so I'll have negative 6 plus 12. Combining like terms, I'll have negative 1x plus 12 equals 10. I have negative 6x's and positive 5x's. I have more negatives than I do positives, so when I simplify here, I know that I'm going to need a negative number, a negative 1x. So I have negative 1x equals negative 2. So if the negative of x equals negative 2, then the positive of x must equal positive 2. Some students think about multiplying both sides by negative 1 and others divide by negative 1. Either way is correct. We know x equals 2, but we're not done. We still need to find y. To find y, I'm going to use one of my original equations. I've used the first one since it looks less complicated. Notice also that I didn't choose to use this equation. I might have made a mistake when trying to find this equation. That's why it's always best to use an original one. Plugging in 2 for x, I'll have 4 is equal to 4 minus y, then I can subtract 4 from both sides to isolate my y. So 0 equals negative y, which means 0 also equals positive y. Any number multiplied by 0 is still 0. So, if we multiply by negative 1, this should make sense. The point 2 comma 0 should be the point of intersection. If I use some mental math real quick, we can check it. 2 times 2 is 4, and 4 minus 0 is 4. So yes, this one checks. Plugging in 2 for x and 0 for y, I'll have 5 times 2 which is 10. This term would be 0, so 10 equals 10. That's true as well. This is the last system of equation we'll work on together. I want you to perform substitution and the second equation. What expression should go in this box? Then, I want you to solve the equation. What expression would you get in this box after distributing the negative 2? And then, what does this all simplify to you? Put that in this box. Try solving the problem on your own and then see what should go in these boxes. Good luck. &gt;&gt; We know we can perform a substitution with the y. I have y isolated on one side of the equation. So I can take 2x minus 2 and substitute it in for y. Next we distribute the negative 2. So I get negative 4x and negative 2 times negative 2 which is positive 4. The like terms sum to zero, so I'm just left with positive 4. If you got those steps right, excellent work. So what's going on here? Does 4 equal 6? Well no, this can't be right, we know 4 isn't equal to 6. So this substitution method isn't working, something else is going on with these two lines. If we remember that a solution to a system is a point of intersection, then we know that these two lines can't intercept, we don't get a true statement. In other words the lines have to be parallel. Let's make sure. Here are the two original equations and let's try graphing them. The first equation is already in slope-intercept form, so I won't do anything with it. For the second equation, I'll change it into slope-intercept form. First, I subtract 4 x from both sides, then I divide each term by negative 2. This is where want to be careful. I get positive 1y here, positive 2x here. And negative 3 for my constant. The y intercept is negative 2 for the purple graph and the slope is positive 2 over 1. For the green graph, the y intercept is negative 3 and our slope is 2. Notice that the slopes are the same, so we have parallel lines. Parallel lines will never intersect. So, we know that there can't be a solution here. Whenever we solve an equation and get a statement like 4 equals 6, we know there can't be a solution. The lines must parallel, just like in this case. &gt;&gt; What's the solution to this system? You can enter your answer here. The solution to the system is 3, 2. We want to start by solving for one of the variables and one of the equations. I think it's easiest to solve for y in this equation. You can also solve for x or y in this equation and still wind up with the same result. I can take the equation, subtract 3x from both sides, to get negative y equals negative 3x plus 7. Remember these are not like terms, so I just list them. Now I need the positive y value, so I divide every term by negative 1. We could also think about multiplying every term by negative 1, so y equals 3x minus 7. Now we can perform substitution, we can take 3x minus 7 and substitute it in for y. Since that's what it equals. Here I've replaced y with 3x minus 7, then I distribute the 2, distributing the 2, I get 2x plus 6x minus 14 equals 10. I combine my terms so 8x minus 14 equals 10. Then I add 14 to both sides, so 8x is 24 and finally we divide both sides by 8, so x is equal to 3. So we found x, but remember we still need to find y. I can use this first equation to find y, since it's already solved for. I replace x with the value of 3, so y equals 3 times 3 minus 7, or 9 minus 7, which is 2. And remember, you can always make sure that you're right. Check the answer 3, 2 by plugging it into both equations. Do you come out with true statements? If so, you did great. &gt;&gt; So far, we've seen how to solve a system of equations using graphs and substitution. Let's try and come up with one more method. Here's a system of two equations, and what I want you to do is I want you to add these two equations together. What would you get? You could write your answer in this box. If I add the x terms together, I get 3x. And if I add positive y and negative y, those sum to 0, negative 11 plus 26 equals 15. If you have trouble thinking about that, try 26 minus 11, that would also b 15. Without even realizing it, you've actually already performed elimination. We've eliminated the y variables, they added to 0. &gt;&gt; Now that we've eliminated the y variable, I want you to finish solving this system of equations. What's the x value? What's the y value? To finish solving for x we divide both sides by 3, so x would equal 5. So we know the x coordinate is 5, but remember we still need to find y. I'm going to use this first equation to find y. I'm going to plug in or substitute the value of x, which is 5 into this equation. Negative 2 times 5 is negative 10 and then I add 10 to both sides of the equation to get y equals negative 1. So this is my solution to the system. And, of course, if we want to know if we're right, we can check our solution. We'll plug in x equals 5, and y equals negative 1 into both equations, and it should work. And when we check the first equation, we get negative 11 equals negative 11. And when we check the second equation, we get 26 is equal to 26. So, yes, this has to be our solution. In general, the elimination method is useful when one variable has the same number or the same coefficient in front of it as the other. But they need to be opposite in sign, just like these y's. We can eliminate the y variables in the last problem, because the y here had a positive 1 as a coefficient and this y had a negative 1 as its coefficient. We know, if we added these two terms together, we would get 0. So this is what we want to strive for. We want variables with the same coefficient, but with opposite sides. Here's a different system of equations. The coefficients to the x are different, and the coefficients for y are different. Hm, so what could we do? Well, we can actually use the properties of equality to change one of these equations or both of them. Here's what I mean. I can think about changing the second equation by multiplying it by a positive 2. When I do that I distribute this 2 to each of the terms, 2 times 3x is 6x, 2 times negative 4y is negative 8y and 2 times 10 is 20. Make sure that you distribute this number to each term. So I know this green equation is the same as this equation, it's been multiplied by 2. So I've rewritten my system of equation here, and notice the y variables have the same coefficient and opposite signs. This is great. Now using our elimination method, I want you to solve this system. You can put your answer here. &gt;&gt; If I add my equations together, I get 13x equals 26. Positive 8y and negative 8y eliminate. They add to zero. Then, we divide both sides by 13. So, I know x is equal to 2. I found x, so now, I need to find y. I'm going to use this first equation, and write it over here, so I can substitute the value of x, which is 2 into this equation. So, plugging in a value of 2 for x, I get 7 times 2, which is 14. The rest of my equation stays the same. I subtract 14 from both sides to get 8y equals negative 8. Remember, I have more negatives than positives here, so definitely negative 8. Then, we divide both sides by 8 to get y equals negative 1. We write a solution as a point. I'm not going to show the check for this equation but you can always double check your answer. So let's test your knowledge. What number should you multiply the first equation by to perform elimination. Enter the number here. &gt;&gt; We should multiply the equation by 3. If I multiply every term by 3, then I'll get 9x. 3 times negative 4y is negative 12y, and 3 times negative 7 is negative 21. So this equation turns into this equation, and they're actually the same equation. They just look different. And wow, look at that. We can actually eliminate the y terms. I have negative 12y here and positive 12y here. Because these terms are opposite in sign, we know that they sum to zero. I'm not going to solve this system of equations, but if you want some more practice, go for it. Remember to check your answer at the end, and then you can know if you're right. &gt;&gt; You might be wondering, why should we even learn elimination to begin with? Well, would substitution really work here? Would it be a good choice? Well, I could take this first equation and try and solve it for either x or y. Remember, for substitution we're trying to get one of the variables alone on one side of the equation. I'm going to solve this equation for x. I subtract 3y from both sides to get 2x is equal to negative 3y minus 15. I just list these terms, because they're not like. Then we divide both sides by 2, so x is equal to negative 3 halves y minus 15 halves. Notice that this equation is a little complicated. We have two negative signs, and we also have fractions. So when we're working with substitution, this could make our work more difficult. Keep in mind though, that when we perform substitution, we don't have to just solve for x. We could have solved this equation for y. I could subtract 2x from both sides, to get 3y equals negative 2x plus 15. Then I would divide each term by 3. So, 1y would equal negative 2 3rds x plus 5. If I wanted to use this for substitution, it's still pretty complicated. We have a fraction and we have a negative sign. So let's try instead using elimination. When solving this system using elimination, I'm going to try and eliminate these x variables. I could choose to try and eliminate the y variables. It doesn't actually matter. I'm going to multiply this first equation by 5. So I get 5 times 2x, which is 10x, 5 times 3y, which is 15y, and 5 times negative 15, which is negative 75. I multiply this equation by 5, so that way I could get a 10x here. So what number should we multiply this 5x by, so that way we get a number here that would eliminate with the 10x? Take some time to think about it. We should multiply this equation by negative 2. If I distribute this negative 2 to each term, then I can see that I were to get negative 2 times 5x, which is negative 10x. Negative 2 times positive 2y, which is negative 4y. And negative 2 times positive 1, which is negative 2. And look at that, we're ready to do elimination, if positive 10x and negative 10x. These terms have the same absolute value of 10 but one is positive and the other's negative, so we know when we add them they sum to 0. &gt;&gt; Alright, so finish out this systems problem. I want you to find the solution, or the point of intersection for the equations. Put your answers here. If we add the two equations together, the x terms eliminate and add to zero. 15y and negative 4y equals 11y and negative 75 minus 2 makes negative 77. We can divide both sides by 11, so one 1y is equal to negative 7. We found y so now let's go and find x. Remember we could use either of the original equations to find the other variable. Usually it's best to use the original equations, because sometimes we might have made a mistake when multiplying, so we don't want to use these multiplied equations. I'm going to use the second equation, 5x plus 2y equals 1. This is a great opportunity to pause the video. Maybe you can try to find the value of x by plugging in to this first equation instead. See if we get the same result. So I can take the value of y, which is negative 7, and plug it in for y in this second equation. So I get 5x plus 2 times negative 7 equals 1. 2 times negative 7 is negative 14. Then we add 14 to both sides of the equation. So 5x is equal to 15. We divide both sides by 5, so x is equal to 3. This is great. We found our solution. &gt;&gt; Here's our original systems again. And this time, I want you to make sure that you can check to know if you're right. Check the solution by plugging in the appropriate values into each equation. Then, carry out the math to fill in the rest of the boxes. You should wind up with true statements at the end. They should check. We know x should be replaced with positive 3. So I replace x with positive 3 and this x with positive 3, y is negative 7. So we replace both of these y's with negative 7. 2 times 3 is 6, and 3 times negative 7 is negative 21. If I add these two together, I get negative 15. And look at that, this side does check. 5 times 3 is 15. And 2 times negative 7 is negative 14. If we add these together we get 1 which is equal to 1. Great. We know we have the right solution. &gt;&gt; Let's move away from solving systems of equations and think about which method would work best. So here's a system of equations, and I want you to think about, how should we solve this? So what do you think? Should we graph the equations as lines and find the point of intersection? Should we use substitution to find the point of intersection? Or should we use elimination? Take some time to think about it and actually try solving it using these different methods. You'll find out which one's best. &gt;&gt; These equations are not in slope-intercept form so it would be pretty tough to use graphing. We'd have to do a lot of rearranging and then plot points. If we were graphing, we could have also made tables, but that could take a lot of work, too. So, I'm going to take out graphing. If we want to use substitution, we need one of the equations solved for one variable. This one is almost solved for x. All I would need to do would be to subtract 3 from both sides. Then, I could perform substitution. So, x could equal 2y minus 3 and now, I'd be ready to substitute this in to my first equation for x. That's a pretty great choice. If you were leaning towards elimination, you might have thought to multiply the second equation by negative 5. If we distribute the negative 5, we would get negative 15 minus 5x minus 10y. Now, we could add these equations together. I would want to switch the places of these two terms so that way I could add my x terms together more easily. Now, I'm actually ready to do elimination. And I would get negative 4y minus 15 equals negative 10y plus 9. Notice I can't combine these, because their not like terms. This has a y and this doesn't. This also has a y and this doesn't. This isn't so great with elimination. I'm having to do a lot of steps, and I'm having to reorder a lot of terms. So, that's why I think substitution is the best here. &gt;&gt; Here's another system of equations. I want you to think about which method would be best to solve it, graphing, substitution, or elimination. Again, make sure you're trying to actually solve these using the different methods. Find out which one's easiest. For this one, I think we should use elimination. If I multiply the first equation by positive 2, I could wind up with a positive 12 x, which would be the opposite in sign of this negative 12 x. This would let me eliminate the x variables. 2 times 6 x is 12 x. 2 times negative 5 y is negative 10 y. And 2 times positive 3 is positive 6. So, I have the new first equation, and then I just rewrite my second equation right under it. So, elimination would probably be the best here. We choose elimination over the other two because, with substitution, we don't have any single variable solved for. And I know if I solve for these variables, I'd have to divide by coefficients, like 12 or 10. That could create fractions in my substitution, which would make my math more complicated. I know graphing would be more difficult, too, because I would either have to create tables, or solve these equations for y and put them in slope intercept form. Let's continue solving the system and see what happens. If I add the x terms together I get 0, if I add the y terms together I also get 0, and then 6 and 5 make 11. Hm, this is weird, 0 equals 11. This can't be a true statement, we know this isn't right. So something else is going on with these 2 equations. If we remember that the solution to a system of equations is a point of intersection, then we know that this doesn't make sense. There's actually no point that works as the intersection for both of these 2 lines. If I solve each equation for y, I would wind up with these 2 equations. These parallel lines will never intersect. So whenever we connect this math to the graph, we can tell that there's no solution here. There's no ordered pair, x and y, that will make both of these equations true. And that makes sense, because there's no point of intersection. &gt;&gt; Alright, here's one last problem for you to solve. Try solving the system using any method you prefer. Write your answers here, good luck. Did you get 18 5th and 3 5th? If you did, excellent work. This is a really tough problem. Even if you didn't get this answer. If you got part of the solution right, or some of the variables right, great work. I'm going to first solve this problem using substitution. So, if you chose this method, stay with me. If you tried elimination, fast forward until you see the word, elimination, here. Also at any point if you find a correction to your work, pause the video and then try and keep solving. Finding the types of mistakes you make is really important so that we can improve on our math skills. Try and think about the mistake you made and where you went wrong. Thinking about that mistake can prevent you from making it in the future. I think it's easier to solve for x using this equation. I just need to add y to both sides. So I have x equals 3 plus y, and remember I could also write this as y plus 3. Addition is commutative. Now that I've solve for x I can replace this x with the equivalent expression.3 plus y. So I have 3 times 3 plus y plus 2y equals 12, I distribute the positive 3 to get 9 plus 3y plus 2y equals 12. 3y and 2y make positive 5y. And then I just carry down the terms. So 9 plus 5y equals 12. I can subtract 9 from both sides, so 5y is equal to 3. And finally I divide both sides by 5, so y equals 3 fifths. Now I can substitute the value of y, which is 3 fifths, into the second equation. I chose the second equation, because these coefficients were 1. It looked a little bit more simple than the first equation. So I plus in the value of 3 5th for y. Then I need to add 3 5th to both side to isolate x. So x is equal to 3 plus 3 5th. We know we can write this as a mixed number. The mixed number is 3 and 3 fifths. We have the whole number and then the fraction. Converting this to an improper fraction we would have 18 fifths. This is some amazing math work for substitution. If we use elimination I can multiply the second equation by a positive 2. This will allow me to eliminate the y variable. You might have chosen to multiply this equation by negative 3. That would've let you eliminate the x variable. That's okay, that could work too. 2 times x is 2 x. 2 times negative y is negative 2 y. And 2 times 3 is 6. So I get 5 x is equal to 18, and the y's eliminate. To solve for x, we divide both sides by 5. So 1 x is equal to 18 5ths. We know that y should be 3 5ths, so let's see if we can find it, using our x value. I'm going to use the second equation to find the value of y. I take 18 5ths, and plug it in for x. So I have 18 5ths, minus y, equals 3. Well I know 18 5ths is really 3 and 3 5ths. This is the mixed number that represents, or is equal to, this improper fraction. 5 goes into 18 3 times and I have a remainder of 3, or 3 5th. So I have to take away some number from 3 and 3 5th to get 3. Well, this number has to be 3 5th. If I just think about it I know why it has to be 3 5th. There's our solution. &gt;&gt; We've learned a lot of methods to solve systems of equations. We looked at graphing, substitution and elimination. I hope you've gained a greater appreciation of how to solve these problems. With each of these methods there are some advantages and some disadvantages. When solving try and think about what would work best for each problem. Now that we've seen solving a system of equations using substitution and elimination, let's see how we can use those skills to solve some more interesting problems. Let's try one with interest. You invest $10,000 in two funds, one of the funds pays at 7.5% and another fund pays at 8%. You earned a total interest of $787.50. So, how much money did you invest at each rate? Maybe you lost your tax forms or maybe you don't have your bank statements. Either way, you can use algebra to help figure out how much money you invested in your trade. When creating a system of equations, we know that we need two variables, x and y. This question actually indicates what variables we should use. We're looking for how much money was invested at 7.5% and at 8%. So that's going to be our two variables. I'm going to go ahead and let x be the amount we invested at 7.5% and y be the amount we invested at 8%. Using these two variables, what equation could you write involving the amount of money you invested? You want to use an amount plus the amount should equal your total amount. Write that equation here. And remember, it should involve x and y. We know the total amount of money we invested was $10,000. And if I add up the other amounts together they should total to this. Well I don't know how much I invested at 7.5%, that's x. And I don't know how much I invested at 8%, that's y. But I know that if I add those two unknown amounts together I should get $10,000, so this is my first equation. Now that we have what equation, we need to set up another one. The other equation needs to involve interest. I know if I add the interest from one account and the interest from the other account, I'll get my total interest of $787.50. But I need to find the interest first. To find the interest, we take the rate and multiply it by the amount of money. For example, one of their rates is 7 point 5 percent. And, the amount of money that I invested at 7 point 5 percent was, well, x. I don't know it. Remember, our equation should involve two variables, x and y. So, we need to make sure that it appears in the terms. We convert the percentage rate, 7 point 5 percent, to a decimal, and multiply it by x. So, this is the first term. So what are the other terms in the equation. What should go here in the second interest. What should go here in the total interest. You can write the terms in these boxes. &gt;&gt; I know the second rate must be 8% because that was from our other fund. The second amount was y. That's the amount we invested at 8%. We don't know it, so that goes here. We convert 8% to a decimal and get 0.08y or .08 times y. Our total interest we actually knew. We gained $787.50. So that goes here. This quiz is pretty tough, and there's a lot of algebraic reasoning going on. So don't worry if you didn't get it right on your first try. Stay with me so that we, we can continue to make sense of this word problem. So, with some logic and some algebra, we can come up with two equations for this problem. We used the individual amounts from each account to equal the total amount. And we used the interest rates and those amounts to get our total interest. Now that we have two equations, we can use them to figure out how much was invested at each rate. I'm going to show you how to solve the system using substitution. I think it's easier than elimination because I can either isolate the x in this first equation or the y. If I subtract x from both sides, I can solve for y. So y would equal 10,000 minus x. Now that y is solved for, I can replace this y with 10,000 minus x, this is my substitution. I've made the substitution in this line, the I distribute the 0.08. Multiplying by 10,000 moves my decimal point right four places, so I get 800. And then I have minus 0.08 times x for the second term. Next I subtract 800 from both sides. I have my constant terms on the right, and then my x terms on the left. Next, I combine my like terms and I get negative 0.005 times x. Then, I divide by the coefficient of x to get x is equal to 2,500. But we need to make sense of what this means. Let's look back at our problem. X is 2,500. Well, that's the amount of money I invested at 7.5%. Knowing this, I want you to finish out the rest of this problem. How much was invested at 8%? Write your answer here. Well, we know we invested a total amount of $10,000. So x plus y must be 10,000. If I solve for y here, I know that number must be 7,500. Great thinking if you got that right. We know when we plug in the values for x and y, we get a true statement in this first equation. And it turns out if we plug in x and y in our second equation, we'll also get a true statement. [inaudible] Try working out this math to make sure that we have the right answer. The equations are checked, which means that we have the correct x and y. It works in both equations. Here's another problem involving interest. This time you invest money at 7% and 8%. You invested a total of $25,000 and your yearly interest was 1,900. How much money did you invest at each rate? To get started solving this problem let's first come up with some equations. We'll let x be the amount of money we invested at 7% and y be the amount of money we invested at 8%. Using these variables write two equations for representing this problem. Use the ideas of amount, and amount, plus the total amount. And interest plus interest should be total interest. And make sure to use those variables. Good luck. We don't know the first amount, so that's x. And we don't know the second amount, so that's y. If we add the two amounts together, we get a total amount of $25,000, just like in our problem. For our second equation, we know our interest rate for this first amount was 7%. So I have 0.07, 7 hundredths times x. Our second amount gained 8% interest. So we have 8 hundredths times y, and our total interest was 1900, that was written in our problem. If you're able to write both of these equations that's exceptional. This is strong algebraic reasoning. Here are the two equations that we just found, and I want you to figure out, how much money was invested at each rate? How much did we invest at 7%, and how much did we invest at 8%? Try your best. After solving, we find that x is $10,000 and y is $15,000. Congrats if you got both of these right. If you didn't, that's okay, too. Follow along with me in the solution, and then pause it when you find a mistake. Then continue solving, and see if you can get these answers. Remember, mistakes are okay. And this is the time that we learn from them. I'm going to rewrite this first equation by subtracting x from both sides to get y is equal to 25,000 minus x. I did this so I could use substitution. I think that's the easier choice here. Now I perform the substitution, then I can distribute my 8 hundredths to both terms. Here's my first term, 2,000, and my second term, negative 8 hundredths times x. I subtract my constant term to move every constant to the right. And then that leaves me with x on the left. I combine my like terms, then I divide by the coefficient of x. I get x is equal to 10,000 or $10,000 which we invested at 7%. And remember this is a system of equations. And so we have two variables, x and y. Well we know if x is $10,000, y must be $15,000, since those two have to add up to $25,000. And as always, we can check our answers. By plugging in x and y into both equations, we'll get true statements. Now that we've done some interest problems, let's try a mixture one. Mixture problems like this are helpful if you're at home and you want to make lemonade or punch. Usually, you're trying to make a different concentration than what you already have in your fridge. Scientists also use this approach when they're trying to make different concentrations of chemical solutions in the laboratory. Let's see how it works. Let's use the same approach as before with rates and amounts to try and set up equations. The wording is slightly different here because we're working with volumes and percentages, but I think you'll see a pattern. For this problem we have 5 gallons of a punch mix with 65% water. We want to mix it with a punch mix that's 80% water. So that way we get a mix that's 75% water in the end. The question is, how much of this 80% mixture should we use? These are the two equations that we're going to try and set up. The first one takes into the account the gallons of water. For example, the first volume that I have is 5 gallons of punch mix. This punch mix is 65% water. So if I take my percentage of water and multiply it by the gallons of punch, I'll get my gallons of water. I change 65% to its decimal, and multiply by 5, to get 3.25 or 3 and 25 hundredths. Remember the question can help us identify the variable. We don't know how much punch mix we need that's 80%, so I'm going to let that variable be x. Using x, and the information in the problem, I want you to complete our equation. What should go in these boxes? Mixes. Don't worry about volume 3. We actually don't know that quantity yet. &gt;&gt; I'm mixing a punch mix that has 65% water with a punch mix that has 80% water. So 80% as a decimal is 0.80. I don't know how much of it I'm using, so that volume is x. Multiplying the terms together I get 0.8 times x. For this third percentage, we know that our punch mix needs to wind up being 75% water so I want to write this as a decimal. Keep in mind that we have 65% of a punch mix that's water, and five gallons of that punch mix. When I multiply these numbers together, I get gallons of water. So I have gallons of water with gallons of water should equal my total gallons of water. We'll check this in the end to make sure it's true. &gt;&gt; Notice that we have an equation, but we still have an unknown, this total final volume. I'm going to use a bucket to try and help us figure it out. Let's see if we can get an expression for this volume. We know, for our first volume, we had 5 gallons. So, I'm going to pour those 5 gallons into my bucket. For the second volume, I don't know how much of it I used. We're going to pour an x amount of that. So, we know our final volume is going to be 5 gallons plus x gallons. This is the amount of gallons we wind up in the end, our volume 3. Now, that we know that the total volume is 5 gallons plus x gallons, we have one equation with one variable. Now, we're ready to solve. So, you solve this. How much punch mix should we use that's 80% water to get our 75% water punch mix? Write your answer here. And I've already included the unit of gallons, so don't write that. We should use 10 gallons of a punch mix that's 80% water to get a punch mix that's 75% water. Here's how we can do that. First, we distribute, next we subtract 3 and 25 hundredths from both sides. This gets my constant on the right, which means I want to move my x to the left. Then I subtract this term from both sides. And finally, I divide by the coefficient in front of x, 5 hundredths. So I get x is equal to 10. 10 gallons. &gt;&gt; Try solving this mixture problem. You have 10 liters of a chemical mixture that is 8% water, and you want to add to that a mixture that is 15% water to get a mixture that's 10% water. How much of the 15% mixture should you use? One thing that you should notice in mixture problems is that the percentage of your final mixture must be in between the percentage of the other two mixtures. The 10% falls in between the 8% mixture and the 15% mixture. This makes sense because we can only come up with the percentage that would be between these two. I couldn't make a 60% solution from an 8% water solution and a 15% water solution because, well, these two would be too low. To make a 15% mixture, we would need 4 liters. If you got that one right, that's amazing work. You've really mastered how to solve these system problems. If this one gave you trouble, that's okay. Stay with me to figure out what might have gone wrong. The question asks for how much of the 15% mixture we should use. So that's going to be our variable, x. We start with 10 liters of a chemical mixture that is 8% water. So that's going to be my percent 1 and volume 1. For percent 2 and volume 2, I'm adding 15% of x liters of solution. And for my final percentage, I know the mixture needs to be 10% water. I don't know my final volume. But if I remember back from the bucket, if I pour in one volume, and I pour in another volume, that gives me my total volume. So I poured in 10 liters first, and then I poured in x liters. This must mean that the total volume is 10 plus x. I can use that here. Now we have one equation with one variable, and we can solve for x. I multiply my terms together, and then I distribute the 0.10. Next, I subtract 0.8 from both sides. I'm moving my constant terms to the right. This means that I must move my x terms to the left. I subtract 0.1x from both sides to get 0.05x equals 0.2. And finally I divide by the coefficient of x, to get x is equal to 10 liters. To start solving this problem we're going to let d equal the number of dimes and q equal the number of quarters. The question indicates the variables that we need to use. In this case we need to know how many of each coin we have. So we need two variables, d and q. We need to set up two equations. One will involve the number of coins And the other would involve the value of the coins. We know the number of dimes plus the number of quarters has to equal a total number of coins. A register only contains dimes and quarters and it has a total number of 21 coins. So if we add the number of dimes d to the number of quarters q, we get 21. Here the variables are taking the place of the numbers. We don't know the number of dimes so we use d, and we don't know the number of quarters so we use q. We know the total value of the coins is $2.70. A dime is worth $0.10. So to get the value of dimes we multiply $0.10 by the number of dimes we have. A quarter on the other hand is worth $0.25 cents. So to get the value of the quarters. We multiply 25 cents times our number of quarters, q. And if we add these two values together we should get $2.70. I've rewritten the two equations down here and now we can use either substitution or elimination to solve this problem. I'm going to use substitution since I can easily solve for one of the variables in this first equation. If we subtract q from both sides of this equation, we'll get d is equal to 21 minus q. Now that d is solved for we can perform substitution and plug in 21 minus q, and for d in our second equation. Next I distribute 1 tenth to 21 and negative q. I combine like terms. Nest I subtract 2 and 1 tenth from both sides. And finally I divide both sides by fifteen hundredths. I get Q is equal to 4, which stood for the number of quarters. So we have four quarters. But I still need to find the number of times. My first equation I plug in 4 for Q to find the number of dimes, D. Solving for D, I get D is equal to 17. So we have 4 quarters in a register and 17 dimes. Let's go back to our original problem and make sure that this makes sense. We said we had 17 dimes and 4 quarters. Well, the total number of coins should be 21 and, yes, those two add up to 21. So we know this first equation is true. 1 dime is worth 10 cents, so 17 dimes would be worth $1.70. 1 quarter is worth 25 cents, so 4 quarters would be worth $1. And with simple addition we know that $1.70 and $1 add up to $2.70. So the second equation is true as well. For this problem, a grocer wants to mix pounds of raisins with pounds of nuts to get a trail mix. He's wondering how much of each he should use to make the trail mix. So, we know we're going to need two variables, r will stand for pounds of raisins he'll use and n will stand for the pounds of nuts he'll use. The trail mix will contain both the raisins and the nuts. So, if we add up the pounds of the raisins, and the pounds of the nuts, we'll get our total pounds of trail mix. I can use these variables to write my first equation. The pounds of raisins r, plus the pounds of nuts n, should equal 15, our total amount of trail mix. For the second equation, we know that the cost of raisins plus the cost of the nuts should be the total cost of the trail mix. Our raisins are charged at $3.50 per pound, so if I take $3.50 per pound times the number of pounds of raisins, I'll get my cost of the raisins. The same is true for the nuts. We have n pounds of nuts times $2.00 per pound. So this is my cost. The trail mix is going to cost $2.66 per pound. But we need to figure out how much pounds in total we have of trail mix. If we used r pounds of raisins and n pounds of nuts, then our total pounds of trail mix would be r plus n. This last part is probably one of the hardest steps in this problem, but if you remember that you are making the trail mix from pounds of raisins and pounds of nuts, it should make sense. I'm going to solve this system using substitution, since I can easily sub with one of these variables. If I subtract r from both sides, I'll get n is equal to 15 minus r. Now I can perform substitution. I'll take 15 minus r and plug it in for n in my second equation. I could also take 15 minus r and plug it in for n right here in the equation. But I already know the value of r plus n. I know r plus n is equal to 15, so I can replace this entire parentheses with 15. Replacing this parentheses with 15 will be much simpler than replacing this n with 15 minus r. Because here we'll get a number instead of a bunch of variables. Next, I group my like terms together. Then I subtract 30 from both sides to get 1.5r is equal to 9. Finally, we divide by the coefficient of r to get r is equal to 6. R showed for the number of pounds of raises we used, so really this is 6 pounds. The pounds of raises and the pounds of nuts should add up to 15. So, using some mental math, or solving an equation, we can get n as equal to 9 pounds, the pounds of nuts. As always, let's go back and make sure these answers make sense. Our pounds of raisins was 6, and our pounds of raisins was 9. So, the grocer had 6 pounds and 9 pounds, which did indeed total 15 pounds. Next we can replace 6 for r and 9 for n to determine the cost and make sure that our second equation is true. So, we replace each of the variables, and then I multiply each of these numbers together, making sure to add 6 and 9 before multiplying by $2 and 60 cents. So we have 21 dollars plus 18 dollars equals 39 dollars so yes this equation is true as well &gt;&gt; For the third practice problem, we were wondering how many tickets were sold. How many adult tickets and how many kid tickets. So, these must be the variables. We can let a equal the number of adult tickets, and we can let k equal the number of kid tickets. It doesn't matter what variables you use. You could use a smiley face or even a diamond. It just matters that you use the same variable for the number you're representing throughout the problem. These are the two equations we need to set up. The number of adult tickets and the number of kid tickets should equal our total number of tickets. Using our variables, I have a plus k is equal to 500. 500 was the total number of tickets sold for the fundraiser. The second equation involves the amount of money earned from adult tickets and the amount of money earned from kid tickets. If we add those two amounts together, we should get the total amount of money, which was $3312.50. I've written our two equations down here and this time, I'm going to solve it using elimination. We don't always have to use substitution. I'm going to multiply this equation through by a negative 4 so I can end up eliminating the ks. Here are the twp equations, and I can solve this equation for k. This allows me to do substitution that can plug in 500 minus a in for k. Now, we don't always need to do substitution, I could have multiplied this first equation by a negative 4 and that would have let me eliminate the ks. I could of solved it using elimination instead. Either way you do it, you should wind up with the same answer in the end. First, I distribute the positive 4 to the 500 and the negative a. Then, I combine like terms and subtract 2000. Our last step is to divide by the coefficient of a, 3 and a half. And we get a is equal to 375. This was the number of adult tickets that were sold for the fundraiser. We know the total number of tickets must add up to 500. So, I can replace a with 375 to find the number of kid tickets. Using some mental math here or an equation, we can get k is equal to 125. This is the number of kid tickets we sold. And to be sure that your answers are right, plug them in into your second equation to make sure that the amounts add up to $3,312.50. &gt;&gt; Hi. Chris and I wanted to say congratulations on finishing the first third of Visualizing Algebra. &gt;&gt; You've learned a lot about equations, inequalities, fractions and even systems of equations. &gt;&gt; Next we're going to be looking at rational expressions, factoring, radicals and exponents. &gt;&gt; Get ready for some excellent units. &gt;&gt; Good luck. To start this unit, we'll look at Math Quill so you can input exponents and scientific notation with ease. You might have already discovered how to enter exponents using Math Quill, and even if you haven't here's a quick walk-through on what to do. First you want to type the letter x, this will create an x in your math quill box. Then you want to type carrot symbol, you notice that right before you type the carrot symbol your cursor bar will appear after the x. Immediately after you type the carrot key, the cursor bar will move up and in the position for an exponent, or a superscript. You will then type the number 4 to get the 4 as the exponent. And here's where you can run into trouble. If you keep continue typing, you will be typing exponents or powers. To move the cursor bar back down to the main line, you want to hit the right arrow key. Hitting the right arrow key gets us to the main line and now it continues typing the rest of our expression. So finish entering this expression, and then try these other ones. There's also a challenge problem down here. It contains both an exponent and a fraction. For the first one, you need to type y, the caret key, the negative symbol and then 5. For the second expression, we'll start by entering z, the caret symbol and then 6. Remember this caret will move our cursor bar from the main line up into the exponent position. We hit the right arrow key to continue back down to the main line, then we type a plus sign, then number 3, and the variable x. To get this exponent of 3, we type our carrot symbol and then the number 3. Our cursor bar would be here at this point, so we need to move it back down to the main line, so we hit the right arrow key. And we finish out by typing y, the arrow key, and then the number 3. For the last expression, we start by typing in the negative sign and then a forward slash. The forward slash will create two empty spots for the numerator and the denominator. To get our numerator we simply type 5y, the carat key, and the number 2. At this point a cursor bar will be in the exponent position. We hit the right arrow key once, which will send our cursor bar back down to the main line of the numerator. To move into the denominator, we hit the right arrow key one more time. Now that our cursor bar is down to the denominator, we type 8 to get our full fraction. Now that we have our fraction, we need to move our cursor bar out of it, we hit the right arrow key one more time and then we can enter in the plus sign x the caret key and the number three. This will gove us our second term. Our cursor bar would be here, so we hit the right arrow key to get back to the main line and then we type the plus sign and 2. This gives us our full expression. Welcome back. In the last unit, we compared graphs and equations to determine if they intersected, were parallel or if they represented the same line. In this unit, we'll focus on exponent rules and polynomials. By the end of this unit, I hope you'll be able to find patterns while working with exponents and use those patterns to help you add, subtract, multiply and divide polynomials. Only one lesson in this unit will focus on exponents, but we'll use everything we learn here for the rest of the unit with polynomials. Let's start off by looking at some exponent patterns. Here are some expressions. And here are those same expressions expanded based on the exponents. I have three 3s multiplied together and three 2s multiplied together. Because the exponents were 3 and 2. The same is true down here. I have two 2s and three 5s. If I wanted to simplify these expressions, I would write the final answer with one base and the exponent. For example, for this case I would have three 5s. So, I could write this answer as 3 to the 5th. This second one's a little bit tricky. I have a base of 2 and a base of 5. The bases are different, so I can't combine these two bases and write them with an exponent. I have to keep them separate. I still have 2 twos and 3 fives. When we simplify expressions with exponents, we want to try and combine the exponents that have the same base. So think about what I did here. What did I really do with these exponents to get this answer? And what did we have to do in this case? And I know it seems weird that we have an answer, that's the original question but sometimes that happens. Sometimes we can't combine the powers. We could, of course, multiply each of these out to get a number, but I wasn't focused on the number. I wanted to look at the exponents and what we're doing with them. Based on what we just covered, try and answer this question. What are the bases and exponents for the expressions, combine any bases if you can. And write your answer in the box. If you got these answers excellent work. This would be the expanded form for the first problem. We have four 2s and three 2s. So all together I would have 2 to the 7th. I have seven 2s multiplied together. The second problem is very similar to this first problem. Instead of having a 3 as our base, we have an x. We have some unknown number. So we have 3 of those x's multiplied by 2 of those X's. So all together, we have 5x's multiplied. Or X to the 5th. Here's the expanded form for the 3rd expression. Notice that I have x's and y's. So these bases aren't the same. And i can't combine them. I just have to list x to the 3rd and y to the 4th. That's my answer. &gt;&gt; For the last problem, this is the expanded expression. Since I have a product of factors, I can rearrange the factors to group the like terms together. For example, these x's can be moved over here. And these y's can be moved to the right. We can do this because the community property of multiplication. We know 3 times 2 is the same as 2 times 3. If ever I have a bunch of factors, I can rearrange the order of those factors. We'll still wind up with the same number. Now this is a little bit easier to see. I have x to the 7th and y to the 7th. So these are the most simplified expressions with exponents. Let's try one more question. What do you think is an equivalent expression for 5 to the 8th times 5 to the 4th? Choose the best answer. The answer is 5 to the 12th. Great job if you got it. For 5 to the 8th, we would write a 5, 8 times. And then we're going to write a 5, 4 times. Here are 8 5's. And here are 4 5's. I have them multiplied all together, so I could use an exponent to represent this repeated multiplication. I have 5 to the 12th. Notice that in all these cases, we perform the same steps of the same operation with the exponents that have the same base. So what general rule could you write for any base that's non-zero, and its exponents a and b? What would x to the a times x to the b always equal? As a hint, think back to what you did in the last problems. What were you doing with these exponents? It turns out we were adding the exponents together. Whenever we have a non zero base x. We can simply combine their exponents by adding them. Just like in our first problem we encountered. We had 3 to the third times 3 squared. Well, we knew we had 3 threes and 2 threes. And multiplied all together, 3 to the 5th. So, we added the exponents. We've looked at multiplying identical bases together, as well as different bases together, now let's look at powers of powers. I have a base raised to a power, and then that quantity, raised to another power. We're going to try and come up with an exponent rule to handle these. This cubed power indicates I should write 2 cubed multiplied by itself 3 times, so I write that here. Now we can expand each of these and write our final answer as two to some power. So what do you think that would be? Can you write the expressions with one base and one exponent here? Do the same for these problems. Excellent work if you got these correct. When I expand each of these, I would have three 2s, three 2s, and three 2s, That would make nine 2s multiplied all together, so 2 to the 9th. For the second problem, I have 8 to the 4th raised the 3rd power, I multiply 8 to the 4th, 3 times then I can expand each 8 to the 4th, so I have four 8s times four 8s times four 8s, So that's a total of twelve 8s multiplied together, 8 to the 12th. We use the same reasoning on this third one, we have 5 to the 3rd three times, which means we would have nine 5s multiplied all together, 5 to the 9th. For the final problem, we have x squared to the 4th, our powers still apply to the variable. Remember, variables are just numbers, so it would work the same in this case, as it does in these three. First I multiply x squared by itself four times, then I have x multiplied by itself eight times, x to the 8th. There must be a shorter way, though, than doing all this work. That's a lot of writing, and I don't want to do that every time I work with an exponent. So what else is going on here? Maybe you can find the pattern. Take a look at the exponents on the left and the exponents on the right and see if you can answer this question. What general rule can you find for raising this base and power to another power? Choose the best answer. It turns out we multiply the exponents together, this choice. Great work if you identified the pattern. If this question gave you some trouble, go back and look at the last slide. You'll notice that the powers on the left will multiply to give you the powers on the right. Let's look at a more complicated case of powers of powers. Here, I don't just have one base, I have two I'm multiplying 4 cubed and 3 squared. And this quantity will be raised to the 4th power. If I want to simplify this problem and in particular the exponents, I would need to rewrite this. First, I write 4 cubed times 3 squared four times, that would be this. Notice that I have multiplication between every single term, so this is really just a product of factors, and I don't need to list the parenthesis. We can rearrange the product of our factors and I can group the 4 cubes together and the 3 squared's together. If I expanded all this out I would have 12 4s and 8 3s. So I know my final answer is 4 to the 12th times 3 to the 8th. So I know my final answer would be 4 to the 12th and 3 to the 8th. Again, I don't want to have to list all these factors out when I'm doing this work. There must be a shorter way. If I look at how these exponents changed, what did I really do? Well it turns out that I distributed this exponent of four to each of the factors 4 cubed and 3 squared. So I have 4 to the 3rd raised to the 4th power and 3 squared raised to the 4th power. Now we just apply the rule that we learned before. When we raise a power to a power, we multiply the exponents together. So I get 4 to the 12th and 3 to the 8th. Pretty neat. Let's see if you can put this together. Try and answer this question. What are the bases and exponents of these expressions in simplified form? Write your bases and exponents in each of the boxes. And remember, this 3 has an exponent of 1, when the exponent isn't listed, we assume it to be 1, the same is true for the c. Also for these numbers, don't worry about multiplying them out. For example, if you have the base of 7 in your answer, leave it as a base of 7 with some exponent as the number. As always, try your best and feel free to play around with these exponents, it's okay to make a mistake. Here are the correct expressions. If you got these, excellent work. I know these last two were pretty tricky. So, it's okay if you didn't get them right on your first try. First, we can distribute the 5th power to the 7 squared and the x squared. Now, we apply our power to our power rule. We multiply 2 times 5 to get 7 to the 10th. And 2 times 5 to get x to the 10th. We could only distribute this power of 5, because they had factors here. Numbers and variables multiplied together. Then next one, we distribute the square to 3 to the 1, n cubed and n squared. And we get this. We multiply the exponents together to get 3 squared. N to the 6th, and n to the 4th. Finally, for the last one, we carry out the same steps. We have a cubed, cubed. B squared cubed and c to the 1 cubed. Raising a power to a power. We get a to the 9th, b to the 6th and c cubed. There's our final answer. These were the expressions from the last problem, and these were the answers. What was going on here? What's the pattern that we could find? In other words, what do we do with the exponents a and b, when they're raised to another power, c? Choose the best rule that represents what we did here. We simply distributed or multiplied the c to each of the exponents. So that would be this choice. For the base of 7, we had an exponent of 2. And 2 times 5 makes 10. For x, the exponent was also 2. So, 2 to the 5th was x to the 10th. We were simply multiplying each exponent by 5. The same was true in the second case. 1 times 2 is 2. 3 times 2 is 6. And 2 times 2 is 4. That's how we got 3 squared. M to the 6th times n to the 4th. This was a pretty tricky pattern so, great job if you found the correct answer. Let's try putting all these properties of powers together to answer this question. What would be this in simplified form? Write your bases and your exponents. This time, for the numbers, I actually want you to multiply them together. For example, if 2 squared times 3 squared was in your answer, I would want you to write that as 4 times 9, or 36. 36 should be the coefficient in front of the box. Don't use the powers. This is a pretty tough problem, so take your time with it. I don't expect you to get it right on the first time, but I do want you to play around with the exponents. Try expanding this, and see what you get. We have negative 5x cubed times y squared, squared. So I should write this twice. Now that I have a product of factors, I can regroup the basis that are alike. So I have two negative 5, two x cubes, and two y squared's multiplied together. That would have been the same if I would just distributed the square to each of the terms. I would have had two negative 5, two x cubes, and two y squared. Now that I'm here, I can multiply my numbers together, and my bases together. Negative 5 times negative 5 is positive 25 times 2 is 50. For the base of x, I simply add the exponents together, 3 plus 3 makes 6 and 7 makes 13. The y's are a little bit easier, so I just have y to the 4th. All together I have 50 times x to the 13th times x to the 4th. If you reasoned your way somewhat through that or got any of these exponents right, great job. If you got this right on your first try, that's even more impressive, great work. Here's another one to try out. You can put your answer in this box. And remember, you should have a number as a leading coefficient and then bases are variables raised to exponents. When starting the problem, we want to recall that the negative 3 has an exponent of 1. Now, we can raise each of these bases to this power of 3. We multiply every exponent on the inside of the parentheses by the exponent on the outside of the parentheses. And we get negative 3 to the 3rd, b to the 12th, c to the 6th. The negative of 3 to the 3rd is negative 27. I regroup my numbers together and my variables with the same basis together. Finally, I multiply the numbers and I add the exponents. Our final answer is negative 54 times B to the 15th times c to the 11th. Fantastic work if you got it. In a couple of the problems before, we distributed the parenthesis on the outside to the exponents on the inside of the parenthesis. We can also do this with fractions. If we think all the way back to unit 1, we saw 1 3rd times 1 3rd times 1 3rd. We knew that result was 1 27th. We found this answer by multiplying 1 3rd by itself three times. There was actually another way we could have thought about this. I know the exponent on this base, 1, is a 1. And the exponent on this base of 3 is also a 1. We can distribute this exponent of 3, or multiply it to each of the exponents on the inside of the parentheses. So we've a base of 1 and an exponent of 1 times 3, and a base of 3 with an exponent of 1 times 3. This is really 1 cubed, and this is really 3 cubed, or 1 divided by 27. If we can get to this step more quickly, then we can get to our answer, 1 cubed is 1, and 3 cubed is 27. Here we have a negative sign, and we're going to square it, so we know our answer should be positive. So I'm going to have negative 5 squared and x squared. So all together, we have 25 divided by x squared. This last case of variables works just like this first example. We'll have a to the 5th, divided by b to the 5th. We just multiply the exponents on the inside of the parenthesis by the exponent on the outside. We raised a power to a power. Try simplifying these expressions. Write your answer as a fraction in this box and if your answer is something like 2 squared over 3 squared, I want you to evaluate the number. You would want to write your answer as 4 9ths, because 2 squared is 4 and 3 squared is 9. Here the correct answer is. Did you get them right? If so nice work. I know this last one is little bit tricky. So don't worry if you didn't get all of these right. For the first one we would have 6 7ths times 6 7ths or 6 squared over 7 squared. So 36 over 49. For the next one I would have negative 3 squared and 4 squared. So 9 divided by 16. And finally, for this last one, I have x divided by 4 raised to the 0 power. Remember, any non-zero base raised to the 0 power is simply 1. We looked at positive powers. So let's check out some negative powers. A negative exponent tells us to write the reciprocal of a base, and write it with a positive power. So here the reciprocal of 3 is 1 3rd and then I write this with a positive power of 2. This negative sign is kind of like an operation. It tells us to write the reciprocal. Of our base. In the second example we need to be careful, we have 5 times x to the negative 3. The exponent on the 5, is a positive 1, so we're just going to list the 5 as a factor. Now, we take the reciprocal of x, which is 1 over x, and then change the negative power to a positive 3. For a fraction, we'll take the reciprocal of the base, which is 3 4ths, and change our negative 2, to a positive 2. We can simplify our answers to get 1 9th, 5 divided by x cubed, and 9 16ths. Looking back at our work, we can see that a negative exponent in a numerator moves the factor from the numerator, to the denominator. The base of 3 was the numerator, and it ended in the denominator. The same is true for the x and for the 4. Let's try some practice with negative powers. What do you think this expression is equal to? Write the correct letter here. This one would be d. For a negative exponent we take the reciprocal of the base and raise it to a positive power. We know 1 divided by y cubed is the same as 1 divided by y cubed. Next, we multiply our numerators and denominators together to get 7x squared divided by y cubed. This choice. To get to the answer more quickly, think about what a negative exponent does. It moves the base from the numerator to the denominator, just like in d. Let's try another. What do you think this expression is equal to? Write the letter in the box. Answer choice e is correct here. Great job if you're figuring out the meaning of negative exponents. We know negative exponents would give us the reciprocal of the base, and then we change each negative exponent to it's positive form. In the end, I'll have 7 times 4 times 1, which is just 7, over x squared times y cubed. And again, our negative exponents move the bases to the denominator with positive exponents. What about this one? What's this expression equal to? This one would be C. Excellent work if you figured it out. Here, the negative 7 doesn't mean we do the reciprocal. A negative sign in front of a number just makes it negative. The actual move to the denominator because the power is negative. So we'll have x squared down there. This matches with answer choice C. Here's the last in our rapid fire series. What do you think this one is? This one was answer choice a. Excellent work if you figured it out. For the negative exponent, we'll do the reciprocal of our fraction, so we'll have y cubed over 7x squared. Any based race to the 1 power is just itself. So, here's our answer, a. We've seen what a negative exponent does to something in the numerator, it moves the base to the denominator. So if a negative exponent moves something in the numerator to the denominator, then a negative exponent in the denominator must move that to the numerator. When we first saw negative exponents, we learned that a base raised to a negative exponent, would be the reciprocal of that base raised to its positive exponent. This can also work in the opposite way, like if we have a negative exponent in the denominator. A negative exponent indicates to write the reciprocal of the base to the positive power, so I have 1 divided by 1 4th, the reciprocal of 4, squared, I change the negative to positive. I know dividing by a fraction is the same as multiplying by a reciprocal, so I can rewrite this expression as 1 times 4 squared. And again, notice a negative exponent in the denominator, moves the base to the numerator with its positive exponent. We can use the same reasoning with variables. I see a negative exponent in the denominator, so I know that this base is going to wind up with a positive power in the numerator, y to the 5th. For this last one we want to be careful, 5 has an exponent of 1, and x has an exponent of negative 4, so only the x term is moved to the numerator. When we handle this negative exponent, we rewrite our expression as x to the 4th divided by 5. In general here's the rule we can write for base raised to a negative exponent that appears in the denominator, we simply write it in the numerator, with its positive exponent. Here's a different type of practice problem. For this one, I want you to write each expression using only positive exponents. Then, I want you to check the boxes for the ones that are equal. Good luck. The first expression would be 2 to the 4th n cubed. I moved the n from the denominator to the numerator since it has a negative exponent. For this expression, I move the base of m to the denominator and the base of n to the numerator. Here, these 2 bases come to the numerator. So aha, I know these two are equal. This one doesn't match these other expressions, so it's out. For the second one, the m and the n both move to the numerator with positive exponents, but the 2 stays in the denominator, because the exponent is a positive 1. This one would be out, too. For this last one, I have a negative sign in front of the 2. This is not an exponent, so I just list the negative 2 in the denominator. The n to the negative 3, however, moves up to the numerator because the exponent is negative. This doesn't match these, so it's out as well. For the last problem, the two moves up to the numerator because the exponent is negative as well as the m. This definitely matches the other expressions. So here are the three. This was a really tricky quiz, so don't worry if you didn't get it right on the first try. I really wanted you to focus on negative exponents, negative numbers, and negative exponents for numbers. We have to keep in mind these differences when working with problems. We have one more pattern to cover with bases and exponents and this involves division. I can think about expanding 3 to the 4th and 3 squared, just like before. We can simplify common factors in the numerator and denominator. They make 1. Because we're working with a fraction made up of factors, we know these make 1. So we're left with 3 times 3, or 3 squared. We can think about expanding these variables as well. We simplify common factors in the numerator and in the denominator, and we're left with f to the 3rd. This last one is just like the others before except we needed to do something additional for the two numbers or coefficients. I know 6 divides into 12 and 6 divides into 18. 6 into 12 is 2, and 6 into 18 is 3. So I have 2 3rds times w to the 5th. I've showed you the expanded form, and the simplification, so that way we could look at the pattern. What's happening as we move from the left side to the right side? What do you notice about the exponents? Let's see if you can answer this with a question. What's a rule for the pattern that you see over here? You can write your answer in this box. And be sure that it includes a base of x, and involves your exponents a and b. What'd you do with them? It turns out that we subtract the exponents. We do a minus b. We can see that in the first example, we have 3 to the 4th divided by 3 squared. So 3 to the 4 minus 2, or 3 squared. The same is true for f. We have 8 minus 5, or f cubed. For the last one, we leave our numbers in the front as a fraction, and then we have w to the 8 minus 3, or w to the 5th. We saw the fraction was reduced to 2 3rds. This gave us our final result. All right, I'm going to throw something challenging at you. I want you to find these expressions simplified and I only want you to write them using positive powers. You can write your answers in these boxes, and they may contain fractions. When dividing bases, we subtract the exponents. So we have 3 to the 2 minus 4 or 3 to the negative 2. This negative exponent moves the base of 3 to the denominator with the power of 2. So we'll have 1 over 3 squared or 1 9th. Here I'll subtract the exponents again, f to the 5 minus 8 or f to the negative 3. We know this f will be moved to the denominator with a positive power. So 1 over f cubed. In both this first example and the second example, you want to think, where did you have the higher exponent? It was in the denominator. The 3 to the 4th had the higher exponent than 3 squared. And f to the 8th had a larger exponent than f to the 5th. If we look at expanded form, we can see that the 3's will simplify, and we're left with 3 of the 2's in the denominator or 1 9th. The same is true with the f's. 5 of the f's simplify to 1, and then we're left with f cubed in the denominator. This should make sense. I have more f's in the denominator than I do in numerator. We use a similar resoaning to figure out the last one. We should have five more w's in the denominator than the numerator. So I know w to the 5th is that my denominator. Now I need to figure out the other two numbers, 8 divides into 16 and 40 so I'd be left with 2 5th. So I have 2 divided by 5 times w to the 5th. There's my last fraction. I hope you found a lot of different ways to make sense of these exponents. There's no one way or wrong way to figure them out. You can apply the properties of power or look at the expanded forms to get your answers. Just be sure that it's making sense along the way. Here's your chance for another practice. Try simplifying this expression. Only write the answer with positive exponents. Try using expanded form or the rules you came up with for exponents. Here's the simplified expression. Great work if you got it correct. We can divide 10 and 15 by 5, so I get 2 3rds in the front. Then I notice that I'll have 3 more g's in my numerator than in my denominator. So g cubed in the numerator. Finally, I'll have 3 more h's in my denominator than I would in my numerator. So I'll have an h cubed, or h to the 3rd, down below. But remember I said there's always more than one way to think about this. We can simplify our fraction in the front, just like from before, so we'll have 2 3rds. Then we'll have g to the 7 minus 4 here, we follow that with h to the 5 minus 8, 7 minus 4 makes 3, and 5 minus 8 is negative 3. G to the 3rd, has a positive exponent, so we make sure we list it in the numerator. H to the negative 3 has a negative exponent, so we know that moves to the denominator, and we change the sign to make it positive. Think about the two ways to do this problem, and choose the best that works for you. Let's look at another simplification process involving negative exponents. I'm going to show you two ways of doing this problem, and then you can pick which one you prefer. We learned before that a base with a negative exponent can be moved to the denominator. So we'll have 1 divided by 2 cubed times 2 squared, or 1 divided by 2 to the 5th. If this gives you some trouble, try applying your exponent rules directly. We know when we divide bases, we subtract the exponents. So we have 2 to the negative 2 minus 3, negative 2 minus 3 equals negative 5. And finally we have a base with a negative exponent, so we move the base to the denominator with a positive exponent. Leaving us with 1 divided by 2 to the 5th. And that's exactly the same as we got before. Let's see if you have a handle on this. What do you think this expression simplifies to? Write your answer here. Well I know this negative exponent will move to the numerator. So I have y to the 5th times y to the 4th, next we add the exponents together to get y to the 9th. Excellent work if you got that one correct. If you use exponents rules you would have done y to the 5th minus negative 4. We subtract the second exponent, this also leaves us with y to the 9th, our answer. Here's one last simplification that I want to show you. Again, there's multiple ways to do that type of problem. So, I'm going to show you two, and you choose what you prefer. In the first way, I'm going to start outside the parenthesis and take care of this negative exponent. I do the reciprocal of the entire inside parenthesis to get 1 over 3a to the 4th, b to the negative 3 squared. Next, I square each factor in the parenthesis. 1 squared is 1. 3 squared is 9. A to the 4th squared is a to the 8th. And b to the negative 3 squared is b to the negative 6. Finally, we move b to the negative 6 to the numerator for our final result. The second way of doing this problem is starting inside the parentheses. We can move any negative exponents to the denominator. So I have 3a to the 4th divided by b cubed, and then all of this is raised to the negative 2. We have a fraction that's a base raised to a negative exponent. So we take the reciprocal of this entire fraction and change the exponent to be positive. Finally, b cubed squared is b to the 6, 3 squared is 9, and a to the 4 squared is a to the 8th. Here's our anwer. Both of these results are the same. So we know our work is correct. In the first case, i started with a negative exponent here. Then I handled the negative exponent on the inside. For the second case, I handled this negative exponent on the inside first, then I did the negative exponent on the outside. You'll have to move terms around either way you do it, just get comfortable with one way. Here's the last question for the lesson. Try simplifying this expression and write it with positive exponents in the box. Good luck. Our final answer is a to the 6th, times b to the 8th, divided by 4. You might have written it as 1 4th times a to the 6th, times b to the 8th. This is also correct. You would have just been putting the 1 4th out in front of our two factors. We start by moving this a to the negative 3 to denominator. Next, we take the reciprocal of our base, because we have a negative exponent. So I flip the fraction over, and change my exponent from negative to positive. Finally, we square each of our factors. A cube squared is a to the 6th. B to the 4th squared is b to the 8th. And 2 squared is 4. Here's our final answer. Here's part 2 for our math quill guide for unit 5. I mentioned learning about entering numbers is scientific notation. Let's see how we can do this. To enter a number in scientific notation. You'll want to type in the leading number or decimal followed by the asterisk symbol. This asterisk symbol will create a dot or a multiplication in between our first number and our power of 10. Be sure you don't type x for the multiplication sign. We'll think it's a variable instead. Next, you'll type in the number 10 followed by the carrot symbol and then the exponent of 5. So now you try it out. You can follow these keystrokes to enter this number in scientific notation and then, try these on your own. Enter your answers here and good luck. For the second one, you want to type in 3.06. Then, use the asterisk symbol, the number 10, the carrot symbol, and then 34 to get the exponent. For this last number in scientific notation, we start by entering the decimal, followed by asterisk symbol, and the number 10. Then, we type the carrot key and negative sign and 9 to give us our final exponent. I hope you're starting to feel like a Math Quill pro if you're getting all these correct. We use scientific notation to write extremely large numbers or small numbers, let's review that real quick. At the beach, we could think about measuring a tiny grain of sand, that grain would measure this many meters. We can rewrite this number in scientific notation, using what we learned from Unit 1. For scientific notation, the absolute value of our first number, a, must be greater than or equal to 1, and less than 10. So we know we need to move the decimal to the 6. We'll have 6 and 25 hundredths. Next, we need a power of 10 so we can move this decimal back to its original position. I know this decimal should move five places to the left in order to get this number. So my exponent is negative 5. We learned about negative exponents at the beginning of this unit and this should make a ton of sense now. Multiplying by a negative power of ten makes a number smaller because we're really dividing the number by a power of 10. And, if we carried out the math and moved the 10 to the denominator and then divided by 100,000 we would get this decimal. And, remember a positive exponent would make sense here. Positive powers of ten make numbers larger but this one's smaller. Let's make sure you've mastered this skill. Write these different numbers in scientific notation. The first is the distance from the earth to the moon. The second is the distance light travels in a year. And this last small number is the wavelength of red light. A wavelength of light is a measurement from the crest to the crest, or a trough to a trough. If you're interested about light, try looking some things up. Write your answers in scientific notation in these boxes, and don't include the unit. I've got that written for you. Also, be sure you don't round any of the numbers. You want the most accurate number with all the decimals after the decimal point. Good luck. You've mastered scientific notation for getting these right. If you had trouble with one or two of them, that's okay too. For this number, the a value would need to be 2.389, and I would have to move this decimal five places to the right, to get back to my original number. This number is also really large, so we know we're going to need a positive power. If I think about moving this decimal 12 places to the right, I end up with my original number. The last one, the decimal point needs to come after the 7. So if it were after the 7, I would need a negative exponent to move this decimal back to the left 7 spaces, and I'd get this number. And we now multiplying by a negative power 10 really divides this by a power of 10, so our number becomes smaller. What's great about knowing scientific notation an the property of exponents, is that it can make these types of calculations a lot easier. We can actually perform this without using a calculator. First I can change each of the numbers into scientific notation and I need to make sure that I'm multiplying these together, we still have multiplication between each of the numbers. This numerator and this denominator are really just products of factors, so I can regroup things. I'm going to regroup my powers of 10 next to one another, and put the numbers next to one another. And here's where our exponent properties come into play. I want you to simplify these powers of 10. What would be the single exponent on the power of 10, if we simplified this part of the fraction? Write your answer in this box. If you said 9, excellent work. I've copied this part of the fraction over here. Working with bases of 10, I can use my exponent rules to figure out what the power should be. Here are multiplying bases, so we add the exponents. 5 plus negative 3 equals 2, and negative 4 plus negative 3 equals negative 7. Next I can subtract my exponent since I'm doing division of the bases. So 10 to the 2 minus negative 7, or 10 to the 9th. This also makes sense because we know negative exponents wind up in the opposite position. So 10 to the negative 7th would wind up being 10 to the positive 7th in the numerator. 10 to the 2nd and 10 to the 7th would be 10 to the 9th. Our last step is to simplify common factors that appear in the numerator and the denominator. I can divide each of these numbers by 1 and 2 10ths, and I'll have 3 over 1. Next, I can divide 3 into 3 and 6. I rewrite my expression and then I divide 1 and 8 10ths and I get 9 10ths. Our number isn't quite yet in scientific notation, we'll need to move this decimal one place to right. So what should this last exponent be? Take some time to think about, and think about writing this number out if it helps you. The exponent should be a positive 8. Great thinking if you got it right. If you multiply 9 10ths times 10 to the 9th, we would get 900,000,000. And 9 followed by eight 0s. In order to get this number back in scientific notation, our decimal point would have to be right after the 9. This means the power on the 10 must be an 8. Our decimal point is here, and if we move it 8 places to the right, sure enough, we get 900 million. Let's try another problem. This time, you're going to fill in some of the steps along the way. I'm going to start this by writing each number in scientific notation. Once we have our scientific notation, we can rearrange our terms to group the numbers together, and the powers of 10 together. What would be the exponent for our power of 10? Enter your answer here. Well, these are the 4 powers of 10 that are to be using or simplifying. Adding the exponents, I get 10 squared divided by 10 to the negative one. Now we subtract these exponents and I get 10 to the 3rd. Our 10 should have a power of 3. Great work if you got it. Now that we've taken each of the numbers and written them in scientific notation, we've simplified down to one power of ten. Let's continue simplifying this part of our number so we have one decimal over here. So looking at two and four-tenths and one in six-tenths, what's the largest common factor that goes into each of them? In other words, what can I divide each of them by, in order to simplify this part of the fraction? And also, what's the largest common factor for three and five-tenths and the number seven? Write the greatest common factor for these two numbers here and type in the greatest common factor for these two numbers here. The greatest common factor for these two numbers is .8, and the greatest common factor for these two numbers is 3.5. Nice thinking if you've got these two factors. We know .8 divides into 1.6 two times. So this simplifies to 2. And .8 divides into 2.4 three times. For these two numbers 3.5 divides into itself 1 time. And 3.5 divides into 7, 2 times. We've removed a common factor from the numerator and the denominator since they simplify to 1. This leaves us with 3 times 1 in the numerator and 2 times 2 in the denominator. So we'll have 3 divided by 4 times 10 to the third. Three-fourths is 75 hundredths, so we have 0.75 times 10 to the third. Moving this decimal place one spot to the right, we would decrease by a power of 10. So this number is the same as 7.5 times 10 to the second. Notice how this number is in scientific notation. Since this number right here is between one and ten. The number above it isn't in scientific notation. Since the absolute value of this number is not between one and ten. So for our final answer, we know that this division simplifies to 7.5 times 10 to the second or just 750. [BLANK_AUDIO] For this last practice problem, I want you to write these four numbers in scientific notation. After you've written these in scientific notation, combine the powers of 10, and list that exponent here. Good luck. If you've got these numbers for your scientific notations, and a positive 2 as your exponent, great work. These two numbers are large numbers, so they'll need positive exponents for the power of 10. And these numbers are less than 1, they're small, so they'll need negative exponents. Now I'm going to work with the powers of 10 down here to simplify them. When we multiply the same bases, we add the exponents. So we'll have 10 to the third, divided by 10 to the 1. And next, we divide the bases of 10, so we subtract the exponents, giving us 10 squared. Now that we have our power of 10, let's try to simplify this first fraction part. What factors can divide into both the enumerator and the denominator? I want you to list the smaller factor or decimal here and the larger one here. Good luck. We can remove a factor of 5 tenths and 7 tenths from the numerator and the denominator. 5 tenths divides into 1 and 5 tenths 3 times. And 5 tenths divides into 2 and 5 tenths 5 times. 7 tenths divides into 4 and 9 tenths 7 times. And divides into 2 and 1 tenth 3 times. If you're having trouble with the decimals, think about multiplying them all by 10. We know 5 goes into 15, 3 times. 5 goes into 25, 5 times. 7 would go into 21, 3 times. And 7 would go into 49, 7 times. We don't want to use this since it might confuse us with the powers of 10. But it's another way that might help you think about this division. Now that we've simplified these numbers, let's finish our problem. Multiply the remaining factors and list them here, and then write our final answer as a fraction, the numberator and the denominator. 7 times 5 equals 35, and 3 times 3 equals 9. Now we need to multiply it by 10 squared or 100. 35 times 100 is 3,500, and our denominator is just 9. This is our final fraction. In the first lesson of this unit, we learned about exponents. For the rest of the unit, however, we're going to focus on polynomials. Let's see if we can figure out what these are. Before we get started leaning about polynomials, lets actually start off with some shapes. Here's some different shapes and some names of them. What I want you to is to determine which shapes are 2 dimensional and which shapes are 3 dimensional. A 2 dimensional shape is something that's flat that we can pick up. A three dimensional would be something that we can hold like a pen or pencil. What I want you to do is to classify these shapes and let me know if they are 2 dimensional or if they're 3 dimensional. Go ahead. Well we know that a circle is flattened on a screen, so it must be 2-dimensional. The same is true for a triangle, a square and a trapezoid. They're all flat, so they must be 2-dimensional. A cube and a cylinder are definitely 3-dimensional. We can hold a cube in our hand or we can pick up a cylinder, like a cup or a glass. Great work on that quiz. So, why did we start off with shapes? And why are these different categories of 2 dimensions and 3 dimensions? Well, we first looked at this overarching, or broad category called shapes. We think of shapes as being made up of curves and straight lines connected at points or vertices. Then we looked at how we could find differences between those shapes, two dimensional, and three dimensional. We were wondering, are the shapes flat or not? And, from that single question we were able to make these two categories about our shapes. Well, this is also true about functions. We use functions to describe particular relationships in math. For this unit, we're going to focus on polynomials. Expressions with constants, with linear terms, quadratic terms, or cubic terms are all considered to be part of polynomials. Constants are numbers like 3, negative 4,or 5 halves. Linear terms contain a single variable with an exponent of 1. We don't have to write the 1 as the exponent, because we assume that's the case. A linear term might have constant terms on it or not, but it's the variable with the exponent of 1 that makes it linear. Quadratic polynomials contain an x squared. And, cubic polynomials, they contain a cube, or a third power. For this unit, we won't focus on the graphs of polynomials. We're going to focus on working with them. So adding subtracting multiplying and dividing them. You might be wondering what some of these other functions are. They include square roots and exponentials, but don't worry about these. We'll get to them later. Lets start with the smimplest polynomial, a monomial. A monomial consists of only one term, and it could contain the product of numbers and variables. When we see a number next to a variable, we assume that there's a multiplication between the two. But, like many things in math, we don't often show it. Here are lot of examples of monomials. I've rearranged our monomials into certain groups. Here's a group of four monomials, and in this group, I have a constant coefficient and a variable. The variable is x in three of these, but it doesn't always have to be. In this one, it's y. These monomials are simply just constants. They don't even contain variables. This monomial is negative and it contains variables with exponents. Monomials can be positive or negative, like in the first group. And finally, this last group shows an example where we have a constant coefficient and multiple variables multiplied together. Each of these is an example of a monomial. Here are some examples of things that are not monomials. What do you think's different here? What's changed? Take a minute to think about it, and then choose which answers explain why these are not monomials. Check all the boxes that apply. If you said these two, excellent work. For monomials, we said that the exponent needs to be non-negative, so that means the exponent must be positive or zero. Here are two examples where the exponent in the monomial is negative, so these aren't monomials. This term is negative, but the variable, or n, appears in the denominator. Any expression or term with a variable in the denominator isn't a monomial. These two examples are the same, the b appears in the denominator, and the x appears in the denominator, so these can't be monomials. You might not have gotten this reason right, which is totally okay, it turns out that a square root can be written as x to the one half, we haven't even covered this topic yet, so if you got that right, that's amazing. We'll see this fractional exponent, later but I just wanted to preview it now. We do know that monomials can be the product of two variables and that they can be positive or negative, these are the real reasons, why all of these weren't examples of monomials. It turns out that any monomial that we encounter will be an example of a polynomial. Monomials have one term, and are the products of constant coefficients and variables. Binomials are another type of polynomial. These contain exactly two terms. A trinomial is another example of a polynomial. This one has three terms. I've been throwing this word term around a lot. And a term is simply the product of numbers and variables. This is one term. This is one term. And this is one term. The same is true for these. When we have addition or subtraction between two terms, that's when we call it a binomial. And the same is true in this case. We call this a trinomial. You can remember these terms based on their prefix. Mono means one. Bi means two. And tri means three. That should be pretty familiar. A bicycle has two wheels. A triangle has three sides. Maybe you can think of some other words that start with these prefixes. Now that we've covered some terminology with polynomials, let's try using that knowledge with a quiz. I'm going to list some polynomials here. And I want you to tell me if it is a polynomial and if it's a binomial, a trinomial or if it's really not a polynomial, choose other. Excellent work if you got all these right. We know for the first one, we have three separate terms separated by addition, so that's a trinomial. This second expression is a monomial. We have the product of a constant coefficient, 5, and variables, a cubed, b squared, and c. So just one term. The next expression contains a square root, so it's not a polynomial at all. It's something else. Here we have three separate terms separated by addition and subtraction, just like in the first one. So, it's a trinomial. For 2 m minus 4, I have two separate terms, so that's a binomial. Negative 20 is a monomial. And finally, for this last one, I have a negative exponent on this term, so it must be something else. It's not a polynomial. We learn the words monomial, binomial, and trinomial. So that way, we could talk about polynomials. I'll be saying those words a lot. So I wanted to make sure you're clear on them. For example, here we have a trinomial and another trinomial. And we're going to try and add these together. Before we get started, I'm going to show you some algebra tiles to help us think through this. Here's a square, and each side of this square is x units in length. I don't know it. But I do know that the area of the square is x times x, or x squared. This rectangle has a legnth of one on one side, and x on the other. So the area of this rectangle would just be x. And finally, this last tiny square, has an area of 1, it's a 1 by 1 square. I drew these shapes out to help us think about like terms. So let me show you what this problem would like, using these shapes. For this first trinomial, I would have three x squared's, four x's, and 3, or three 1's. You can see a similar representation for the second trinomial. So if you want to add these two polynomials together, we want to combine the like terms. To add like terms together, we simply add up the coefficients of the same term. So 3x squared and 2x squared would make 5x squared. 4 x and 2 x would make 6 x's, and 3 and 1 would make 4. I can rearrange my terms in the first polynomial and the second polynomial to get my like terms. Now that we have this, we're ready to combine like terms. Here was the original problem, and if we're just adding we can drop the parentheses and rearrange to find our like terms. So we have 5x squared plus 6x plus 4. This is the trinomial we get when we add these two together. Here's the sum of two more trinomials. These trinomials are a little bit more complicated because they have multiple variables with exponents. I want you to try this one out. What do you think the sum of this trinomial and this trinomial would be? Enter your answer here. You might stumble a little bit on this one, which is totally okay. I want you to try your best. When finding the sum of polynomials, we want to identify like terms first. I have 3x squared y squared, and negative 14, x squared, y squared, these are like-terms because they're the same variables with the same exponents. Negative 8xy and negative 2xy are also like terms, so I can list those together, down here. These last two terms are tricky, they're actually not like, so I can only list them separately, I won't be able to combine them, or add them. Now I simply count up the number of x squareds y squared that I have, I have positive 3 and negative 14 of them, so that's a total of negative 11. For the next term, I have negative 8xy, and negative 2xy, so that makes negative 10xy altogether. And finally, we just list these terms as sums on the end, because they're not like with anything else in our expression, so here's our answer. Alright, I know that last one was tough, but try this one out. Try adding these 2 polynomials together, and only combine the like terms. As always, your answer goes in the box. If you got this answer, excellent work. Here I've gone ahead and drawn the like terms in shapes. The p to the 4ths have a green square, and the p squareds have circles in a lighter color. I also drew triple lines under the constants. I'm showing you this as a method of finding the like terms. Use whatever you feel comfortable doing. These are just tools to help you out. I've rearranged the like terms in this second line. Notice I paid careful attention to keep the sign with its term. If it's positive the sign is positive. And if it's negative, the sign in front of the term still stays negative. Finally, adding our like terms together, we get this result. Here's the second practice problem. Try adding these two trinomials together and write your answer here. Good luck. If you got this as your polynomial, great work. This question was pretty tricky. So don't worry if you got it wrong the first time. I've rewritten the like terms in this line. And here's the detail that we really need to watch out for. Here we have 3m cubed. And here, we have 2m squared. Not like terms. Just because you see two trinomials. That doesn't mean you should add each term in its corresponding position together. Sometimes, they're not like terms. When I add my like terms together, I get this result. Here's our third and final practice. Use your keen attention to detail and your knowledge of like terms to find the sum. Here are the like terms, and these two aren't like, because they have 2ab squared and 3a squared b. The exponents don't match. After regrouping our like terms together, we add them to get our result. And, remember, these terms aren't like, so we just bring them down into our cell. Now that you have a handle on adding polynomials, let's try subtracting them. When we subtract polynomials we need to subtract the second quantity. We can think of this problem just like this problem. We know in this problem we don't just subtract the one, we need to subtract a total of six. So we can subtract the 1, subtract the 2 and subtract the 3. This is why these parentheses are so important they indicate that when you subtract a total of 6 and not just a total of 1. We get an answer of 9 here but this isn't so important, whats important is what we did right here. We distributed a negative 1, we're going to use the same line of thinking for tackling this whenever you subtract a quantity, you want to change every single sign because we're multiplying by a negative one. So I multiply each term by negative 1 and really that just changes all their signs. You don't have to show this step in your problem solving, but if it helps, you do it. Here's our expression after we multiply by negative 1. Once we're here we carry out the problem just like addition. We regroup our like terms, and then we combine them x squared plus 2x plus 2. Here's our final polynomial. Here's your first practice with subtracting polynomials. Write your answer here. First, we distribute the negative 1 to each term here. So I have negative 5b cubed plus 2b and negative 4. Remember, each of these terms, signs should change. Next, I regroup my like terms. I have 3b cubed and negative 5b cubed here. Negative 7b and positive 2b here. And a positive 9 and negative 4 on the end. And my final answer is negative 2b cubed minus 5b plus 5. Excellent work if you got it. Try your best on this second practice problem. Good luck. First, we distribute a negative 1 to each of the terms, and change their signs. Next, we identify the like terms. And finally, we combine the like terms together. Throughout the problem, I just kept my 4m to the 5th. And my negative 5m to the 4th. These didn't have like terms. But I need to make sure I list them in my answer. Negative 5m cubed and negative 5m cubed make negative 10m cubed. And positive 3 and negative 3 make 0. So here's my answer. Here's the last problem for this lesson. Try subtracting this polynomial. Pay close attention to your signs throughout the problem, and write your answer here. Awesome work if you got this one right. First we distribute a negative 1 to each of the terms, so we change the signs. Next we combine our like terms and regroup them in our next line. 6a to the 4th, and 6a to the fourth make 12a to the 4th. A squared and a cubed just need to be listed down here. Notice that I switched the order of them, that's okay. I know 2 plus 1 is the same thing as 1 plus 2. We can use the commutative property of addition to rewrite our expressions. The order doesn't matter. And finally on the end, we have negative 2. If you're wondering why I switched the order of these, it's because we usually have the powers decrease as we list the terms. We have a to the fourth, a to the cubed, a squared, there's no a term here and then our constant. If you're having any trouble with adding or subtracting polynomials, that's a great time to ask some questions in the forum. We love to hear from you. Maybe you're wondering about like terms, or maybe you're wondering about intergers. If so, let us know. In the last lesson, we learned how to add and subtract polynomials. Let's continue building on that knowledge and try to multiply polynomials. You'll still need to remember how to work with exponents and the idea of like terms. If any of those gave you some trouble, I would go back and do some more review. Before we multiply polynomials, let's start with something a little bit more simple. Let's try an area problem. We're going to use the idea of area to help us understand multiplication and multiplying polynomials. If I want to represent the multiplication of 10 times 12, I could set up a rectangle and call the width 10 and the length 12. Multiplying 10 and 12 would give me the total area of the square, that would be 120. This might not seem like a big deal. But we're going to do something pretty incredible next. We're going to split up 12 into 10 plus 2. I can also set up another rectangle. The width will be 10, and the length will be 10 plus 2. Notice I've created 2 smaller rectangles that make up my larger rectangle. So what's the area of each of these rectangles? Write your answer here. This rectangle would be 100 square units, and this one would be 20 square units, we know this because 10 times 10 is 100, and 2 times 10 is 20. If this side of the rectangle is 10, then this side of is 10 and this side is 10. And here's the amazing part, even though I split up one of the sides of the rectangle, my total area is still the same, 120 and 120. We simply add up these two smaller areas to get the total area of a rectangle. We work with numbers, so of course, what are we going to do next? Let's work with variables. The variable just holds the place of a number. So this x could just be like my 10. Here's another rectangle to represent this expression. One side or one factor is x, and the other factor is x plus 2. The sides of this rectangle represent the factors in this expression. Factors are simply numbers that are multiplied together. Here's the first number x and here's the second number x plus 2. We know each of these is just a number because x represents a number. So, here's one number this would be a different number. Using what we saw before, what do you think each of these areas are? This area would be x squared. And this one would be 2x. Great job if you got both of those correct. This shape has one side of x and another side of x. So it really makes it a square. So the area has to be x times x, or x squared. For this rectangle, we know one side is 2 and this other side is x, because this side is x. So we have 2 times x, or 2x. You might be wondering what this rectangle has to do with this expression. Well, really the multiplication of this factor, and this factor, represents the total area inside a rectangle. We know this answer should be x squared and 2x, or x squared plus 2x, you would have to add these two areas together to get the total area. If we distribute the x to each term on the inside of the parenthesis. We would have x times x, which is x squared, and x times 2 which is positive 2x. If we list the sum of the terms to represent the total area, we've really found the multiplication of 2 factors. Some students have trouble remembering x times x is x squared, sometimes I think it's 2x. But we know that can't be the case because if we have x by x or x times x, we formed a square or x squared. I hope this is a powerful visual for you to remember x times x is always x squared. The last thing I want to mention about this problem is what if, instead, we had x plus 2 times x? If we take our rectangle and rotate it 90 degrees we can see that our factors are just along different sides. We have one factor with a side of x plus 2 and the other factor with a side of x. Notice that we would get the same total area, x squared plus 2x. Again, this is another demonstration of the commutative property of multiplication. The order of the factors doesn't matter. Let's try multiplying this binomial by a monomial. Use what you know about multiplication and exponents to figure it out. We haven't done one like this before, so don't worry if you don't get it right on your first try. Always try to reason through it, and work from what you know. The product is 21 m cubed plus 15m to the 5th. Excellent work if you reasoned through that one. If you weren't sure where to start, always start with the rectangle. We know this is one number, so this can be one side of a rectangle. This is our second number. 7m squared plus 5m to the 4th. We want to split it up into 2 parts. Since we have 7m squared. Plus 5m to the fourth these would be different numbers. Think about if m were 2 this number would be 28 and this number would be 90. But we really don't know what m is so, we have to leave it with these expressions. Next we multiply 3m by each of the terms to find the area. 3m times 7m squared. Is 21m cubed. There's a 1 as the exponent on the m, so remember to add the exponents when multiplying with the same base. Our two numbers, 3 and 7, just get multiplied as usual. Next we multiply 3m times 5m to the 4th, that will give us the area of this rectangle, 3 times 5 is 15, and m times m to the 4th, is m to the 5th. We don't have like terms here so we can't add these together. We have an area of 21m cubed and an area of 15m to the 5th. This is our total area. And instead of writing your entry like this, you might have listed your entry like this or rearrange the terms and written your answer like this. This one is actually preferred. It's in standard form because the highest exponent comes first. When writing your answers for the rest of this lesson, you'll want to write them in standard form. Variables are usually listed alphabetically, and the highest powers come first. Use what you know about standard form and multiplying polynomials to answer this question. What's the product of this monomial with this binomial? Write your answer here. Negative 10y to the 4th plus 8y cubed is the correct answer. That's some great work if you got it correct. If you got stuck somewhere, stay with me and then pause it when you find a mistake and then keep going. This question involved exponents and a negative term, so there are a couple of places where you might have gotten tripped up. I'm going to list this factor, 2y squared, on one side of a rectangle, then I'm going to have 4y, and negative 5y squared on the other side of my rectangle. I'm going to consider this a positive region, because I have a positive number times a positive number. I shaded this region orange, because we're going to wind up with a positive number, here's a positive times a positive. For this region I've shade it grey because we have a negative number times a positive number, we'll wind up with a negative area here. 2y squared times positive 4y is 8y cubed. Next I have 2y squared times negative 5y squared, I'm finding the area of this part of my rectangle. I know a negative area might not make sense, but you can think about this area as the area that you have and this area, about the area that you owe. We use our properties of numbers to multiply 2 and negative 5, and our properties of exponents to get negative 10y to the fourth. Finally, we reverse the order or the two terms, to get our final answer. Negative 10y to the 4th should be our first term, and positive 8y to the 3rd should come second. Keep in mind, the signs in front of the terms stay with them. Now that we've covered monomials, let's make this a bit more challenging. Let's multiply two binomials. I'm going to start with numbers to give a sense of the model. Now, even I can't do this that quickly in my head. I actually go about this another way. I split up 12 into 10 plus 2. And 14 into 10 plus 4. When I do 2 digit multiplication in my head, I'm actually thinking about a rectangle. The first factor, or side of my rectangle is 10 and 2. The second factor, or side of my rectangle, is 10 plus 4. Now this is pretty easy to visualize and think about multiplying the numbers together. I would have 100, 40, 20 and 8. To get each of these areas, I'm simply multiplying the sides of the rectangles. This one is 10, and this one is 10, so 100. This rectangle is 2, and this side is 10 because this side is 10, so 20. Here, this opposite side is also 10, so I have 10 times 4, which is 40. And finally, this bottom rectangle is 2 by 4. So I get a total of 8. Adding up all of these areas, I get 168. Try multiplying this out and you'll find it's 168. Pretty amazing. This also makes sense because I have 10 times 10, which is 100. These 1s are really in the tens spot. Then I have 2 times 10 which is 20. Again, this 1 is in the tens spot. 4 times 10, which is 40, and 2 times 4, which is 8. These are for the ones spot. I hope this is a new way to think about multiplication for some of you. So, let's try something harder. What do you think the area of these rectangles would be? I've gone ahead and listed the factor of x plus 2 on one side of the rectangle and x plus 4 on the other. If you got x squared, 4x, 2x and 8, excellent work. I know I have a square of x on each side, so the area must be x squared. For this rectangle, one side is x and the other side is 4. So I get an area of 4 times x. This rectangle has an area of 2x, since this side is 2 and this side is x. Our last rectangle has an area of 8. This short side is 2. And this horizontal piece is 4. 2 times 4 makes 8. Let's add up the area of all our rectangles together. What's the total area or the product of x plus 2 times x plus 4? Write your answer here. The total area would be x squared plus 6x plus 8. I have like terms of 2x and 4x. So I know that that's going to make 6x. As some thought, do you think you can see the connection between 168 and this polynomial? How do these two relate to each other? As a hint, think about the place value of each of these numbers. And what do you think x could be. If you have some ideas, post in the forum. Try this one out. What do you think would be the product of these two binomial? You may have learned how to multiply binomials in other ways, and you can use those if you'd like. If you're stuck or don't have a starting point, I suggest the rectangle. Here, the product was 2x squared minus 1x minus 6. If you got this, you're quite the pro at multiplying binomials. Now, I know I threw a negative sign at you. So it's okay if you got stuck. There's also a coefficient of 2 here. So that might have thrown you off. I'm going to start by listing the factors on each side of my rectangle. I'll have 2x plus 3 and x minus 2. So I'll have 2x times x, which is 2x squared. Then I'll have 2x times negative 2, which is negative 4x. Notice that we're distributing or multiplying the 2x in the first parenthesis to each term in the second parenthesis. That also happens in our rectangles. Then I'll do 3 times x, which is 3x. And finally by making a little bit more room, I'll have 3 times negative 2, which is negative 6, our last area of our rectangle. And finally, we combine our like terms, the negative 4x and the 3x, to get our answer. Now let's try something a little bit harder. Try multiplying these two binomials together. Notice that we have a variable in the first term and in the second term, in both binomials. Our process for multiplying works the same way, you want to be careful with your exponents and combine like terms. You can put your answer here, good luck. We start with a rectangle. One side will be 2b minus 5c. And then this other side will be 9b plus 4c. Multiplying the first two terms together, we get 18b squared. Multiplying 2b times 4c, I get 8bc. Next, we distribute the negative 5c to 9b. Negative 5c times 9b is negative 45bc. And finally, we multiply negative 5c times 4c to get negative 20c squared. We combine like terms, and we get 18b squared minus 37 times bc minus 20c squared. We worked with multiplying monomials and binomials, and binomials with other binomials, now let's try something a little bit harder. We're going to multiply a binomial with a trinomial. Let's start with our simple case using numbers, and then see if you can extend that to figure out something harder. Just like before, we can split-up each of these numbers, so that way we can make this multiplication problem more simple, I'll have 13, which is 10 plus 3, and 123, which is 100 plus 20 plus 3. Now can imagine doing this multiplication using a rectangle with the appropriate side-lengths. When I find the area of each of these rectangles and add them up, I get 1,599, the answer to our multiplication problem. In the case of multiplying a binomial by a trinomial, we just want to add some rectangles so we can complete our multiplication. Just like with these numbers, I'm going to set up a rectangle, and then I'm going to label each factor along the side of the rectangle. This one will be x plus 3, and this one will be x squared plus 2x plus 3. Using what you know about multiplication, I want you to figure out the area of each of these rectangles. What would they be? For this first rectangle, we have x times x squared. So that's just x cubed. Remember, we add the exponents, 2 and positive 1. For this rectangle, we have x times 2x. So, the area's 2x squared. And this third rectangle over here is x times 3, or 3x. Notice, we're really just distributing this positive x to each of the 3 terms in the second trinomial. This leaves us with 3 new terms. Next, I have 3 times x squared, which is 3x squared. For this next rectangle, I have positive 3 times 2x, so I get 6x. For this last rectangle, we have positive 3 times positive 3 which is 9. The sides of the rectangle give us an area of 9. So find the product of this binomial multiplied by this trinomial by adding up the area of the rectangles. What's their sum? To find the product, we add up the areas of the rectangles. I've listed out all my areas, or my terms here, and I've listed the x squares together and the x's together. These are my like-terms, 3x squared plus 2x squared, makes 5x squared, and 6x plus 3x equals 9x, so here's my total sum. If you haven't made the connection before between this diagram and this diagram, we've simply replaced the 10 with an x. And in fact if we plugged in a 10 for x into this expression, we would get 1599, the same number here. Now that we know that we can use our area model in a bunch of different cases, let's see if we can use it here. We're going to try and square a binomial. When we square a binomial, we simply raise a binomial to the second power. And what we're wondering here is, is this equal to this? Let's use what we know to figure it out. I've drawn out the rectangle for you. Now I want you to fill in the products that you would get when you multiply each of the terms. Basically, you're finding the area for each of these rectangles. After you find the area of each of the rectangles, then write the sum, or the total area, in this box. If you got 4x squared plus 12x plus 9, excellent work. We know that first rectangle is actually a square, each side is 2x, so, 2x times 2x is 4x squared, this rectangle would be 2x times 3, which should be 6x. The same is true for this rectangle,, 2x times 3 makes 6x. And finally for this last rectangle, we would have 3 times 3, for each of these sides which makes 9. When we multiply 2x plus 3 by itself, we end up with this perfect square. This perfect square has an area of 4x squared plus 12x plus 9, which we know isn't equal to 4x squared plus 9. So to answer our original question, no, these are not equal. All the way back from unit 1, we said that squares can't distribute over sums or differences. If we only squared the first term and the last term, we miss out on these middle terms of 6x, these are considered to be linear terms, they only have one variable with an exponent of 1. I now it's really easy just to think about squaring each of these terms to get this answer, but in this case, the math goes against our intuition, it's not true. This is what makes learning math interesting, and sometimes the patterns aren't exactly what they seem. Let's continue investigating these perfect squares. What I want you to do is multiply these 2 perfect squares out. What would you get here and here? Here are the correct answers. For a square, we know we need to multiply X plus 4 by itself twice, the same is true for 3 x plus 1. I draw out my rectangle and I label each of the sides. Finally, we add up all the rectanges to get our total area. I can only add the 4x and the 4x areas together because they're like terms. That's where I get 8x. Down in this square, we have 3x times 3x, which is 9x squared. Then we have 3x times 1 which is positive 3x, and 1 times 1, which is positive 1. We add up all of these areas just like before to get 9x squared plus 6x plus 1. Great work if you got these correct. Based on these two examples, maybe you can figure out a pattern. How did we get this answer from this term and this term? And how did we get this answer from this term and this term? Using what you see here, write a general rule for finding the quantity of a plus b squared. Well, to get this x squared, we multiplied x times x. And, to get this 9x squared, we multiplied 3x times 3x. So, we just squared the first term. If I squared the first term here I would get A squared. This middle term is a little bit trickier. If I do 4 times x I have 4x. But I don't need one of them, I need two. So I'm going to have 2 times my first term and my second term. The same is true down here. I don't just have one 3x, I have two. So I'm going to have the first term times the second term, times 2. So here's the first term, a, times the second term, b, times 2. I listed the 2 first, since we usually put coefficients in front of variables. Now we need to think about the last term, the 16 and the 1. Well I know 4 squared is 16, and 1 squared is 1. So to get the last term, all I need to do is square the second term. So we square the b, we add b squared. Here's a general pattern we could always use if we ever have to square a binomial. Now, you don't have to memorize this, but this is helpful in these particular cases. If you do commit this to memory, or continue to recognize the pattern, it will help you out in later lessons. Let's see if we can identify one more pattern using our perfect squares. This time we're going to have a subtraction sign in between the terms of our binomials. What I want you to do is start by squaring each of these binomials. What would the products be? If you got these 2 correct, excellent work. We'll set up our rectangles as usual. What we want to be careful about is working with these negative signs. I know x times negative 4 is negative 4x, so these 2 areas will wind up being negative. We also want to be careful when computing the last area. We have negative 4 times negative 4, which is positive 16. If we add up our like terms we'll have x squared minus 8 x plus 16. That's the total area or the product for the first binomial. If we square the second binomial we'll get 9 x squared minus 6 x for the like terms, and plus 1. Let's use these two examples to come up with a general rule for a minus b squared. What do you think this would be equal to? Well, to get the first term in both of our answers, we just squared the first term, x times x is x squared, and 3x times 3x is 9x squared. So again we're going to start off with a, a squared. We square the first term. This middle term is just like from before except instead of being positive they're negative. So I take the first term, multiply it by the second term, and then multiply it by 2. X times negative 4 is negative 4x times 2 is negative 8x. 3x times negative 1 is negative 3x times 2 is negative 6x. So, we take the first term,a, multiply it by the second term, negative b, and then multiply it by 2, and we get negative 2ab. This last part is simply this last term squared. Negative 4 times negative 4 is positive 16. Negative 1 times negative 1 is positive 1. So we know negative b times negative b is positive b squared. There's our pattern. The two patterns that we just found are actually called perfect square trinomials. They're called this because we can represent the binomial squared as a perfect square. When we multiply out the binomial, we'll get the trinomial, a squared plus 2ab plus b squared. The only difference between the two patterns is the plus sign and the minus sign, which also appears here in the second term. The second term is positive 2ab with the first one, and negative 2ab for the second. Let's see if you can use these patterns to answer our next question. What would you get be squaring this binomial? Write you answer here. Great work if you got 16x squared plus 40xy plus 25y squared. I start by listing out my factors twice. Then, I can draw a triangle to represent the areas that I'm going to calculate. 4x times 4x is 16x squared. 4x times positive 5y is 20xy. 5y times 4x is 20xy. And 5y times 5y is 25y squared. Finally, we just combine our like terms, the xys and the xys, to get 16x squared plus 40xy plus 25y squared. Let's try and figure out one last pattern with our multiplication. We're going to start by multiplying each pair of these binomials. Notice that the first term is the same in each of the cases. Also notice that the second term is the same for each of the cases, except the signs are different, One's a plus, and one's a minus. Use what you know about multiplying binomials to find the product of each of these. If you got any of these correct, great work. We can use our area model to figure out the product of these two binomials. We know x time x is x squared, x times negative 4 is negative 4x. Positive 4 times x is positive 4x, and positive 4 times negative 4 is negative 16. We use a similar approach to figure out this multiplication problem and this one. When looking at each of these three problems, what do you notice about the linear terms? What do the x terms add up in each of these cases? Write your answer here. The linear terms add up to zero, if you got it, great work. We can see that for this problem the positive 4x and the negative 4x add up to 0. This middle terms are linear terms, sub is 0. So we're left with x squared minus 16. The same is true down here for this case and for this third case. So, using the patterns that you see here. What do you think a plus b times a minus b would be equal to? Think about what you're doing with the first term and think about what you're doing with the second term, to get your answers. Well, it turns out it's just a squared minues b squared. We know that these middle terms, or linear terms, always sum to zero. So we're really only left with these, our squares. So we'll have our first term squared minus our second term squared. That's true in every case. This pattern is called the difference of squares. Because here, we have two squares, and we have the difference of them. A subtraction sign or a minus sign means difference. Using our pattern, what's the product of 8 minus 3y times 8 plus 3y? Put your answer here. If you got 64 minus 9 y squared, excellent work. This problem was a little bit tricky, because I switched the signs on the parentheses. But remember with multiplication, we can switch the order of our parentheses, 2 times 3 is the same as 3 times 2. The same is true for more complicated expressions, so the 8 is my a, and the 3y is my b. A Squared would be 64, we just square 8. Then we have a subtraction sign and then we have b squared, which is 9y squared. Good thinking if you got it. Throughout this section, we moved from factored form to standard form. We multiplied binomials to find the product, or answer. The key idea here is that both of these forms are equal. They are a different way of writing the same thing. As factors, these represent the sides of a rectangle. But right now as a sum, this represents the area of the rectangles. I think this is an amazing part about math. It's two ways of writing the exact same thing. This idea of factors is really important, and it's one we're going to see throughout the rest of the course. In fact, in just the next unit, instead of going from factored form to standard form, we're going to go in the reverse direction. We've seen how to multiply polynomials, so now let's see how we can undo that process. In this section, we'll learn how to divide polynomials and how to check our answer. Here's a polynomial, and we're going to divide it by one monomial, a term. This problem's actually very similar to the problems we've seen in exponents, and in fact, you already have the skills to solve it. We can write this another way by dividing the entire polynomial by 2x. These two forms are equivalent. Next, we divide 2x into each of the terms. So using what you know about exponents and division, I want you to find the answer or the quotient to this division problem. For the coefficients, we just divide them. We know 8 divided by 2 makes 4. For the bases of x, however, we want to subtract their exponents. We have 7 minus positive 1, which is 6. Another way to think about it is we would have x to the 6th left in the numerator. So 4x to the 6th is our first term. 6x to the 4th would be our second term. 12 divded by 2 makes 6. And x to the 5th divided by x to the 1 makes x to the 4th. Our last term should be negative 3x squared. 6 divided by 2 equals negative 3. We know it's negative because the sign is negative. And then x to the 3rd divided by x to the 1 is x squared, or x to the 2nd. Here's the answer to dividing this polynomial. Great work if you got it right. What's great about division is we can always check our answer. We know division and multiplication are inverse operations of each other, so if I take my answer 4x to the 6 plus 6x to the 4th minus 3x squared and multipliy it by 2x, what we were originally divided by, we should get our same polynomial. 2x Times 4x to the 6 is 8x to the 7th, 2x times 6x to the 4th is 12x to the 5th And 2x times negative 3x squared is negative 6x cubed, this is great. We know our polynomials match, so this must be the correct answer to our division problem. Let's consider the same problem with a constant added to our dividend. The dividend is simply the thing that we're dividing into, and the divisor is the second thing that we're dividing by. How would adding this constant 4 change our answer? What new term would we need to include? Take some time to think about this, and then when you're ready, write your answer in this box. We divide our polynomial by 2x, which means we really divide each term by 2x. The first three terms would stay the same, because that's the same division we performed earlier. For the last term, however, we have 4 divided by 2, which is positive 2 divided by an x and x is in the denominator. You might have written this as your answer, which is correct as well. A negative exponent moves the base from the numerator to the denominator. And just like before, if we wanted to check, we can multiply this entire polynomial by positive 2x, and we'll get this as our answer. Let's try something a little more difficult. Here's a polynomial with multiple variables. We have a and b. We're going to divide this polynomial by 5ab squared. We divide each of these terms by 5ab squared. So now, you tell me. Using what you know about division and exponents, what would the answer be? For this first term, we'll have 5 divided by 5, which equals 1, we'll have a cubed in the numerator and one b in the numerator as well. The second term would be, 8a squared b, we'll have a squared in the numerator, and one b in the numerator as well. For the third term, we'll have positive 3a, we'll have one a left in the numerator, and b squared, divided by b squared, makes 1, so just positive 3a for the third term. And finally, for the last term, we'll just have negative 12, 60 divided by 5 equals 12, and the sign is negative, so we need to make sure we include that here. Ab Squared divided by ab squared would just equal 1, that's why we're only left with negative 12. This would be our answer to our division problem. Here's another problem for you to try out, this one's tough. Think about what numbers and variables will appear in the numerator and the denominator, take your time and as always good luck. Just like all the other problems, we're going to start by dividing each term by our divisor, 6fg squared h. 3/6 Reduces to 1/2, so that's going to start my answer. F cubed divided by f would leave me with f squared in the numerator, and then g squared divided by g squared equals 1. And then h 4th divided by h equals h cubed. Our second term would be 4fh squared, 24 divided by 6 equals 4 and f squared divided by f makes f to the 1. The g squared divided by g squared simplifies to 1 again, and then h cubed divided by h is equal to h squared. And finally for our last term, we'll have negative 3 halves, f times h. F squared divided by f is equal to f, and our g squared divided by g squared is equal to 1, so those simplify out. And finally, we have h squared, divided by h, which leaves us with h to the 1. This first term and this last term, were a little tricky, since we had fractions, but hopefully you got most of the variables right. If you got everything right, excellent work. But what if we want to divide by something other than a monomial? What if I wanted to do this? Here we're dividing a polynomial by a binomial. You might not know it, but you already have the skills needed to solve this problem. Let's look at how. We're going to compare this to a division problem that you've seen before. We're going to divide 4 into 852, and I want you to fill in the boxes for the division problem. Don't just put the answers here. Complete everything as if you were doing the long division. We know 4 divides into 8 two times. So we put a 2 above the 8. 2 times 4 is 8, so we subtract 8 from 8 to get 0. To continue our long division problem, we bring down the 5 and then ask, 4 divides into 5 how many times? Well, that's just once. 1 times 4 is 4, and then we can do our subtraction. 5 minus 4 equals 1. We bring down the 2 to continue our long division. And finally, 4 divides into 12 three times. So our final answer is 213. So why would I have you enter all those numbers for long division? Are we only concerned about the answer? Well, no. Math is about reasoning and we can use that reasoning in new situations like here. We'll use our understanding of dividing numbers to divide polynomials. To divide x plus 5 into x squared plus 7 x plus 10, we're going to start with these first two terms. I want to think about the expression that I could put here to multiply by x to get x squared. In other words, I'm taking x squared and dividing it by x. That variable must be x. Next, we multiply x by x and positive 5, and we get x squared plus 5x . This step was very similar to multiplying 2 times 4 to get the 8. Now that we're here, we want to subtract. So I want to subtract this entire amount or expression. This is really a negative 1 times each of these quantities. So we want to make sure that we change both of the signs. When I subtract the amount I'll have negative x squared and negative 5x. Both of the signs change. X squared minus x squared equals 0, and 7x minus 5x equals 2x. Next we bring down the ten to continue the next step of our long division problem. Now I want you to try that same process again. You're going to divide x plus 5 into 2x plus 10. What number would go here? And then when you multiply this number by x plus 5, what two expressions do you get here? Then you're going to subtract this quantity, and put in your final answers down here. When we divided x plus 5 into 2x plus 10, we want to look at these first two terms. We want to ask ourselves, what number times x equals 2x? Well, that must be positive 2. 2 times x is 2x and 2 times 5 is 10. You can also get this number by dividing 2x, this first term, by the first term that we're dividing by, x. 2x divided by x, is positive 2. Now we need to subtract this expression. We know subtracting an expression changes both of the signs. We have negative 2x and negative 10. 2x minus 2x equals 0, and positive 10 minus 10 is also equal to 0. So when we divide this polynomial by x plus 5, we get an answer of x plus 2. Finally, we can check our answer by multiplying x plus 2 times the divisor x plus 5. X times x is x squared and x times positive is positive 5 x. 2 times x is positive x and 2 times 5 is positive 10. And finally, if we combine our like terms, we get x squared plus 7 x plus 10, our original polynomial. Here's a more challenging problem. For this one, I'm going to draw in the boxes, and I want you to fill them in for completing the long division process. Here are the boxes that you can fill in for the long division. You want to make sure that you put the original product, once you multiply this term, by 3x and negative 2. Also include the appropriate sign in the box. If it's positive, don't put a sign, but if it's negative, do include it. I want to think about what number multiplied by 3x is 12x squared. That must be 4x. Again, to get that, we simply divide the first term 12 squared, by the first term of our divisor, 3x. 12x squared divided by 3x is positive 4x. 4x times 3x is 12x squared. And 4x times negative 2 is negative 8x. Now we're ready to subtract this expression, which means we change both of these signs. The first term is negative and the second term becomes positive. 12x square minus 12 square equals 0, and 1x plus 8x equals 9x. Fantasic work if you got all four of those boxes. Finish solving this problem by filling in these boxes. You're going to do the division process one more time. Then write your final answer, or your quotient, here in this box. We know a positive 3 should go here, since 3 times 3x is equal to 9x. Remember, to find this number we can also divide 9x, this first term, by the first term of our divisor, 3x, 9x divided by 3x is positive 3. 3 Times 3x is positive 9x, and 3 times negative 2 is negative 6. Now we subtract the 9 x and the negative 6, which changes both of the signs. This leaves us with 0 as the remainder. So 4x plus 3 is the quotient, our answer, when we divide this polynomial by 3x minus 2. Here's our first practice problem with division. Divide this polynomial by 4k cubed. 3k squared plus 7k minus 2 plus 3 divided by 4k squared is the correct answer. That's an amazing work if you got that correct. We know that 12 divided by 4 equals 3, and k to the 5th divided by k to the 3rd is k squared. 28 divided by 4 equals 7. And we're left with 1k when we compared k to the 4th, to k to the 3rd we'll have one k left in our numerator. Next we'll have negative 2 for negative 8 divided by 4. And then the k cubed divided by k cubed equals 1, so we don't have any variables here. And finally, we're left with 3 4th as a fraction and then k squared in the denominator. We have more ks down here then in the numerator. At these exponents are giving you trouble, it would be a great idea to review. Try going back to properties of exponents and solving those problems. Here's the second practice problem. Good luck. To start this division problem, we want to think about what number, times 3a, is 6a squared, well that must be positive 2a. 2a Times 3a is 6a squared, and 2a times positive 2, is positive 4a. Next we subtract this second expression. When we do subtraction, we simply change all the signs. We distribute the negative 1. 6a Squared minus 6a squared equals zero, And minus 17a minus 4a, is negative 21 a, then we just bring down our negative 14 to continue long division. Next we want to think about what number times 3a is equal to negative 21a. The number must be negative 7, negative 7 times 3a is negative 21a, and negative 7 times positive 2 is negative 14. When we subtract this expression, we really distribute the negative 1 which changes both of the signs. Adding our like-terms together, we get 0. 2a Minus 7 is our answer and we can check it by, multiplying it by 3a plus 2. Try this one out. We divide each term by negative 7x squared. 21 divided by negative 7 equals negative 3, and x squared divided by x squared is equal to 1. So this first term is simply negative 3. For the second one, I have 14 divided by negative 7, which equals negative 2. For the xes, I'll have one more x in the denominator than I will in the numerator. So I have minus a negative 2 divided by x. We're subtracting a negative number here. So really, this is just addition. And finally, 42 divided by negative 7 equals negative 6, and then we're left with x squared and the denominator. This one was pretty tricky, so great work if you got it. Try dividing 5x minus 4 into this polynomial. Write your answer here. You're really mastering division, if you got 3x plus 7. First we think about what number times 5x, would give us 15x squared, that must be 3x, 3x times 5x is 15x squared, and 3x times negative 4 is negative 12x. Now we subtract this expression, which changes both of the signs. 15x Squared minus 15x squared is 0, and 23x plus 12x is 35x, we bring down the negative 28 to continue our long division. Repeating our process one more time, we want to think about what number times 5 x gives us 35 x? That should be positive 7. Positive 7 times 5x, is 35x, and positive 7 times negative 4 is negative 28. We subtract this expression, which changes both of the signs, this leaves us with a remainder of 0, so our final answer is 3x plus 7. We're going to start this new unit by looking at a quadratic equation. A quadratic equation has an x squared term in it. That's where the quadratic comes in. Let's look at one student's attempt to try and solve this. The student attempted to solve for x by isolating the variable. First, the student subtracted x squared from both sides. And then subtracted 6 from both sides. Finally to isolate x, the student divide both sides by 5. So did the student find the number that x equals? Yes or no? Well, no. The student has not found a number for x. The student did manipulate or change the equation up here, which is great, but we still don't know the value of x. You might be able to look at the original equation and do some mental math to come up with the values for x that make the equation true, but what we're going to do in the upcoming lessons is figure out a solving method for this exact kind of problem. We're going to keep coming back to this equation as we learn new skills to see if we can solve it. But for now let's start by solving a number puzzle. For number puzzles, we're going to find 2 numbers that multiply to give us the top number and that add to give the bottom number. So for this one I want to find factors of 20 that sum to 9. We can think about it in our heads or make a list of the factor pairs. This is usually more helpful. We start with 1 since 1 divides into any number. 1 times 20 is 20. So this is definitely a factor pair. 2 times 10 is 20, that's another one and 4 times is 20. So this is our third factor pair. I don't need to continue writing any more factor pairs because well I've repeated one of them already. Ten and two would end up being repeated as would 20 and one if I continued listing factor pairs so if I'm going in order I can just stop when I have a repeat. I look at my list and I see which one of the pairs adds up to nine, that must be this one. So four and five would be the answer to this number puzzle. Try solving these two number puzzles. You want two factors that multiply to give you the top number, like 4 times 5 equals 20, and the two numbers need to add to the bottom number, 4 plus 5 equals 9. And it doesn't matter which order you put the numbers in. I could have also written five here and four here. You'll be correct either way. To find the numbers here, we list the factor pairs of 24. 1 and 24 is a factor pair, since they multiply to give us 24. After 1, I should try 2. Well, 24 is even, so 2 definitely goes into it. 2 times 12 is 24. 3 goes into 24 as well, so 3 times 8 is another factor pair. 4 and 6 is another factor pair. I know that 5 doesn't go into 24, because, since this number doesn't end in a 0 or a 5. And then, if i try 6, I repeat a factor pair, so really, I'm done here. Any higher factor pairs will be repeated like 8 and 3, 12 and 2, and 24 and 1, so I look at my list of factor pairs and I see which pair adds to 10. Well, 4 and 6 add to 10, so that must be the answer. Here are the factor pairs for 36. And notice that I've only listed the positive factors here. We could also have negative 1 and negative 36, but we'll talk about that later. I just want to find the pair that adds to 13. 4 and 9 add to 13, so that must be my answers for my number puzzle. Great work if you got those two right. Throughout the next few lessons, we'll be talking about factors and terms. We want to make sure we know the meaning of each word, so let's start by focusing on the differences between their meanings. Terms are separated by addition or subtraction in an expression. So this expression has three terms, 3 xy, 4x and 5. Within each term there are factors. So, the factors of 3xy are 3, x, and y. These are the things we multiply together to give us our term. The factors of 4x are 4 and x and the factors of 5 are 5 and 1. We could also write 4 time x as 2 times 2 times x. This would be the prime factors of this term. Prime numbers have only 2 distinct factors. Here's another case where we have 2 factors, 2x plus 5 is 1 factor and 7 is another. Within this 2x plus 5 factor, we have 2 terms. Positive 2x and positive 5. Let's check our knowledge with a little check. Are these expressions a term or a factor? Choose the appropriate choice. We know the 7 is multiplied by 4x plus 5y, so these two are factors. The 2 is separated from this multiplication by addition, so this is just a term. Within this factor of 4x plus 5y, we have two terms, 4x and positive 5y. So, this 4x must be a term as well. And finally, we know x and y are both factors since x appears in the multiplication for 4x, and y appears in the multiplication for 5y. When we factor a number, we split up the number into the product of other numbers. 216 can be written as 2 times 108. This number is even, so I know I can divide by 2. Then I just continue my process to get all the other factors. 108 breaks down into 2 times 54, and 54 breaks down into 2 times 27. 27 isn't divisible by 2, but it is divisible by 3. So we have 3 times 9 is 27 and then 9 is 3 times 3. These factors are the prime factors, because the numbers only have two distinct factors, 1 and itself. The only factor of 2 is 2 and 1, and the only factor of 3 is 3 and 1. We can rewrite 216 using bases and exponents. We know we have 2 to the third power, since we have 3 2's. And we have three to the third power since we have three 3s. This is the prime factorization for 216, since the only numbers that appear here are prime factors. Use what you know about prime factors to figure out what's the prime factorization for 192. You can write your answer in this box and be sure to include the appropriate bases and exponents. 2 to the 6 times 3 is correct. Great work if you got it right. This would be the factor tree for a 192. Notice each time we're dividing our numbers by two. We have two to the six and one, three. So two to the six times three would be the prime factorization. We're going to use these prime factorizations to find the greatest common factor for 216 and 192. The greatest common factor for these two terms, is the product of the lowest power of each of the factors that appears in each term. For example, if we looked at 12, and 44, we could see that they both share a two to the second power. They don't share a power of three, and they don't share a power of 11. So two squared, or four, would be the greatest common factor for 12 and 44. So what do you think is the greatest common factor for these two numbers? Write your answer in this box. You'll also want to simplify your answer. For example, if you think two cubed times five is the greatest common factor, you would really write that as 40, since two cubed is eight, and eight times five is 40. The greatest common factor for these two numbers would be 24. Excellent work if you got this one correct. If we expand the prime factors of 216 and the prime factors of 192, we can see that they share three, two's and one, three. The greatest common factor is the product of the lowest power of each factor that appears in each term. So two to the third is the lowest power of the basic two that appears in both terms. And three to the one is also the lowest power that appears for the base of three in each term. We want to simplify our result so two cubed is eight and eight times three is 24. The greatest common factor of variable expressions works just the same as it does with numbers. The greatest common factor or GCF is simply the product of the lowest power of each number factor and variable factor that appears in every term. So what do you think would be the greatest common factor for 45 x squared y cubed and 36 x to the fourth y squared z? The GCF is 9 x squared y squared. Let's see why. This would be the prime factorization for 45 x squared y cubed. And this would be the prime factorization for 36 x to the fourth y squared z. I'm going to regroup my numbers together so that we have the 2's together and the 3's together. I want to find the lowest power of each factor that appears in both terms. We know that 3 appears in both terms, and in fact a power of 3 squared appears in both terms. So that's going to start the product of my greatest common factor. This number has a 5, however this number does not, so I can't list 5 as part of my greatest common factor. However X is a factor that appears in both terms and we have a power of X squared that is common between them. So we can list X squared in the product of our GCF. And finally, they both share the lowest power of y squared, so we can include that in our GCF as well. The greatest common factor is the product of all of these factors together. So we have 9 times x squared times y squared. We can actually use the greatest common factor to factor expressions like this. This would be factored form. We have one factor multiplied by another factor of two terms. When we factor a number out of other numbers, we want to think about what would be left, or what's remaining. For example, if we factor out 9 x squared y squared from our first term, we would be left with 5 times y. These are the left over factors remaining. This should also make sense, because if we multiply 9 x squared y squared by 5 y, we would wind up with 45 x squared y cubed. What do you think should go inside this box? What's our second term inside of our parenthesis? Great work if you got 4x squared z. We can see that 2 times 2, times x times x times z, would be our leftover factors, so that makes 4x squared z. You might have also thought about it in your head. If you divide 36 by 9, you'll get 4. And if you divide x to the 4th, by x squared, you'll get x squared. If you divide y squared by y squared, you would be left with 1. And then you have one z remaining, so 4x squared z. When we factor an expression like this, we're finding two numbers or expressions that multiply together to give us what we originally started with. We can quickly check by using multiplication. If I multiply 9x squared y squared by 5y and by 4x squared z. I should wind up with my original statement. This is where the properties of exponents come in handy. 9x squared y squared times 5y would be 45x squared y cubed. We add the exponents here. There's a 2 and a 1. And 9x squared y squared times 4x squared z would be 30 x to the 4th y squared z. 9 times 4 is 36, x squared times x squared is x to the 4th, and then we have y squared and z on the end. Before we get to the practice for this lesson, let's try some number puzzles. This time the top numbers are negative. This means that one of that factors has to be negative, since a negative times a positive is a negative number. I want you to find the factors for these number puzzles. Remember, we want to find two numbers that multiply to the top number, but some to the bottom number, And it doesn't matter which order you place the factors. Here are the factor pairs for negative 20. In the first three factor pairs I made the first number negative and the second three factor pairs I made the second number negative. The only factor pair that adds to negative one is four and negative five. So these must be the answer and we could have switched these around. I could have had the 4 over here and the negative 5 on this side too. These are the factor pairs for negative 24. I want to find the factor pair that has a sum of negative 5. That would be 3 and negative 8. So those set is to be my factors. Here are the factor pairs for negative 36. I've only made the first set negative. I know negative 4 and 9 sum to 5 so this should be my answers to the number puzzle. Now if none of these factor pairs added to 5, I would have made this column positive and this column negative. Then I could continue searching. For the first practice problem, try factoring this expression. We want to put the greatest common factor on the outside and then put what would be left for each term in these boxes. To factor this expression, we first want to find the greatest common factor. We can find the prime factorization of each of our terms. Now we want to look for the lowest power of each factor that appears in each term. We can see that a factor of 2 appears in each term and in fact there's two of them. So 2 squared is a part of our greatest common factor. The next factor that we multiply into our greatest common factor is 3. There's a power of 3 to the 1 for all of our terms. We can not include x as a factor since it doesn't appear here, but we can include a y. Y to the 1 would be part of our greatest common factor. When I multiply all these factors together I get 12 y. That goes on the outside. When we divide this first term by 12y, we're left with 2x. We can also see that in our factors. If we take out 12y, then we're left with 2x. The second term is a little bit more simple. We will just be left with x times y, and again, we see that in our factors. The last term will be negative 3y squared. It's what we'll get when we multiply the remaining factors together. So this expression has been completely factored. We have one number times another number. Try factoring this expression. This time write your entire factored form in this box. Your answer should have a greatest common factor on the outside and then terms that are added or subtracted inside the parentheses. Be careful with your exponents and good luck. Listing out the prime factorizations, we can see that our greatest common factor is 8ab squared. So this is what I list on the outside of a parenthesis to start the factor. We're left with 5ab for the first term. If I factor 8 times ab squared out of the first term, I'm left with 5 times ab. That goes here. Negative 2b squared would be remaining from the second term. And negative 3 would be remaining for this last term. Essentially, we're just dividing this term by 8ab squared. We know ab squared divided by ab squared would equal one, so we're just left with negative 24 divided by 8, which is negative 3. As always, you can check your result by multiplying or distributing this 8ab squared to each of the terms. You should wind up with your original expression. And finally, what would be the result of factoring this expression? The variables are the hardest part here. The greatest common factor for 15, 20 and -35 is just 5. That's going to start the product for my GCF. Now I want to lowest factor for f that is common between all the terms. Well, just 1 x is common between all the terms. The lowest power of Y that is common is 2. So y squared would also appear in my GCF. An finally, I look at the lowest power of Z between all of the terms, but I have to be careful. There's no z over here. So z won't be included in my GCF. So a factor of 5x y squared from each of these terms. I need 3x y squared z cubed for the first term. 4z to the fifth of the second term and negative x squared y for the last term. I can do this pretty quickly if just check the multiplication as I go. 5 times 3 is 15. X times x is x squared, and y squared times y squared is y to the 4th. Of course, I also have this z cubed on the end. So this is my first term. When I multiply these two terms together, I get 20xy squared z to the fifth. The variables are just listed are multiplied together. And 5 times 4 is 20. Finally, I know this last term must be correct. 5 times negative 7 is negative 35, and x times x squared is x cubed. The last variable is y cubed, which comes from y squared times y. So yeah, this is definitely my factored form. Thanks, Chris, for teaching us how to find and factor out the greatest common factor or GCF. For this practice problem, I want you to factor out the GCF and put the GCF in front, and the remaining terms in parentheses following. So we have 27 q squared p cubed, minus 18 q squared p squared, plus 45 q p cubed. Put your answer in this box. So how do you do? The correct answer is that the GCF is 9qp squared, and the remaining factors are 3qp minus 2q plus 5p. Let's see how we got that answer. First I want to look at the numbers 27, 18, and 45. So I ask myself, what is the largest number that goes evenly into 27, 18, and 45? And with some practice you'll notice that the largest number that goes into those three numbers is 9. When we look at the variables, I need the variable to be in each of the 3 terms and I want to take the lowest exponent of each of the variables. So for the q's, I have q squared, q squared, and q. So the lowest exponent is 1. For the p's I have p cubed, p squared, and p cubed, so the lowest power of p is squared. So the GCF as we said was 9qp squared. What I'm trying to figure out what are the remaining factors, I want to look at the first term, 27 q squared p cubed and I want to ask myself, what do I need to multiply the GCF by to get the first term. First you'll look at the coefficient. I need to multiply 9 by 3 to get 27. I have to multiply q by q to get q squared. And I need to multiply p squared by p to get p cubed. So, that's the first term. For the next term, once again I ask myself. What do I need to multiply the GCF by to get the second term? I need to multiply 9 by 2 to get 18. I need to multiply q by q to get q squared. And what do I need to multiply p squared by to get p squared? Nothing, just 1. So our second term is 2q or negative 2q. And then I put the next sign, which is plus. What do I need to multiply 9qp squared by to get the third term? Well, 9 times 5 is 45. Q times 1 is q. P squared times p gives me p cubed. When factoring, one of the most important steps is to find and factor out the GCF. Let's get back to Chris so he can teach us more about factoring. Let's see if we can use our knowledge of the greatest common factor to solve this new equation. What's the greatest common factor of x squared, 5x, and 6? Now, this question is pretty tough, so take some time to think about it, and think about any number that can go in to each of the terms. Writing out the prime factorizations of each of these might help as well. The greatest common factor, or the GCF is 1. These would be the prime factors for X squared, 5 X and 6. Notice how I have it listed all three of them don't share a common factor, but we really know that we can multiply each of these by 1. So, 1 is the only common factor shared between these 3 terms. If you ever think that a group of terms doesn't have a common factor they actually do, and it would be 1. Whenever we start to factor an expression like this, we should always take out the greatest common factor first. Factoring out a one in this case, will not change our equation. So, we need to learn something else in order to solve this problem. We are going to learn a factoring method called factoring by grouping. We're going to start my grouping terms together that have common factors. We are going to trying to remove our common factors from this group of terms and from this group of terms of so what's the greatest common factor for ax and ay and what's the greatest common factor for 2x and 2y, you can write your answers here We're going to start my grouping terms together that have common factors. Looking at these two terms, we can see that they both share a factor of a. So a is the greatest common factor. For the next two terms, they only share a common factor of two. We can factor an a from ax and ay so we have a times x plus y. We can also factor a 2 from 2x and 2y. So we'll have plus 2 times x plus y. And notice if we were to just distribute we'd get back with what we started with. But in this line there's something incredible happening. This would be one term made up of two factors a times x plus y. This would be another term made up of two factors, 2 and x plus y. So do you see it? What's the common factor for each of these terms? Write your answer here. Well, they both share a factor of x plus y. Remember that a here is one factor, and the quantity x plus y is another factor, since we're multiplying these two numbers together. The same is true on the right, 2 is a factor, and then x plus y is another factor. Since this first term and the second term share an x plus y, we can actually factor it out. This is called factoring by grouping. We can perform this because we were dealing with factors here. We were multiplying between these two numbers. So we removed a common factor of x plus y. And notice we still have multiplication here. Again if I think about distributing this a to x plus y, I would get this first term, and if I distributed this positive 2 to this x plus y, I would get my second term. This factoring is the opposite, or the inverse, of the distributive property. So you try one out. What would be the factored form for this expression? Write your answer here. Be sure you use parentheses, and there's no need to put a multiplication sign in between them. Here's the correct answer, and great job if you got it right. We can factor a 2 a from the first two terms to give us 2 a times a plus 4. The second two terms share a b, so we can factor that out, leaving us with b times a plus 4. Now this term and this term share an a plus 4, so we can factor that out, leaving us with 2 a plus b. And here are our two factors. Try factoring these four terms. Notice that the first two terms are positive, but the second two terms are negative. This means that for these two terms, you should have a negative greatest common factor. Try using our same approach, and just be careful with the negative sign. Factor this expression and write your answer here. The quantity 2y minus 3z times the quantity 3x plus 4 is correct. Fantastic work for getting that one right. Now, I know we haven't covered negative signs yet, so don't worry if you didn't get it right. Let's see how we could do this. I can see that both this term and this term share a y, and also, they're both divisible by 2. So, 2y must by my greatest common factor. If I divide 2y into 6xy, I'm left with 3x. And if I divide 2y into 8y, I'm left with positive 4. Here, this term is negative and this term is negative. The negative 9 and negative 12 share a negative 3 as a common factor. They also share a z. Now, I want to think about what two terms should go in here. What number times negative 3z will give me negative 9xz? That must be positive 3x. Then, I think about what number times negative 3z will give me negative 12z. This must be positive 4. And this is great. This first term and the second term share a common factor of 3x plus 4, so we can factor again. So, this 3x plus 4 is here for one of my factors and 2y minus 3z is my other factor. And again, this line should make sense because if we distribute 2y, we'll get 2y times 3x plus 4, our first term. And then if we distribute negative 3z, we'll have negative 3z times 3x plus 4, our second term. So, this is our last finaled factored form. But sometimes factoring by grouping isn't so straightforward. Let's consider an expression like this. Notice that in these first two group of terms I have a greatest common factor of one. The same is true in these second two terms. So I need to do something else. So we can switch the order of the terms. So you try this one. Regroup the terms and then try factoring by grouping. These would be my two factors, excellent work if you got this one correct. You might have done this in a couple of ways, let's check out one of the methods. If we switch the middle two terms we can see that we'll get a common factor of N in the first terms and a common factor by P in the second terms. If we factor a 7 N from the first two terms we'll be left with two M and positive one. And if we factor a 5p from the second term, we'll be left with 1 and positive 2m. These 2 factors might appear different but we just wanted to switch the order of these 2 terms. Remember addition is commutative. Now that we can see there's a common factor of 2m plus 1 in the first term and 2m plus 1 in the second term. We factor again which leaves us with our factored form, 7n plus 5p times 2m plus 1. But we could have regrouped the terms in another way. I could have grouped this first term and this last term together and then kept the middle 2 terms together as well. If we factor a 2m from these first 2 terms we'll be left with 7n and 5p. Now in this last group of terms there's only a greatest common factor of 1. They don't share any variable factors or number factors. Notice that I have 7n plus 5p and 7n plus 5p in these two parenthesis. This is the next common factor. So, our two factors are 2m plus 1 and 7n plus 5p. Notice that these answers are exactly the same. We've just switched the order of the multiplication. This first parenthesis represents a number. And the second parenthesis also represents a number. So, it would be like 2 times 3, would be the same as 3 times 2. Our multiplication is commutative. Before we get to the practice for this lesson, let's try some more number puzzles. You'll discover the importance of these number puzzles, in the upcoming lessons. Here are the factored pairs for negative 45 and we want to find one that sums to four. Well, negative 5 and 9 multiply to negative 45 and add to 4, so these are my answers for the first number puzzle. For the second number puzzle, I want to find 2 numbers that multiply to negative 45 and add to negative 12. That must be 3 and negative 15. For the third number puzzle, I want to find factors of 45 that sum to negative 14. Well, here are the positive factor pairs for positive 45, but none of these pairs add to negative 14. This must mean I need the negative factor pairs of positive 45. We know a negative times a negative is a positive. So now, I'm just looking for the factor pair that adds to negative 14. This would be negative 5 and negative 9. This must mean the last factor pair is negative 1 and negative 45. They sum to negative 46 and they multiply to positive 45. Let's look more closely at these two number puzzles. I put the first two here, and the second two here. In our number puzzles, these were the products. So explain the observation: if the product is negative, what's true about the factors, and if the product is positive, what's true about these factors? Check all the statements that are true in each case. Well, if the product is negative then one of the factors must be negative, that would be this case. If the product is positive then that means that both the factors can be negative, that's this case, but we want to be careful over here. We could have made another number puzzle where the product was positive 45 and the sum was positive 14. In this case both of the factors would have been positive. This case could also be true. So we have to have one negative factor if our product is negative. And we can either have two positive factors or two negative factors if our product is positive. Try using your knowledge of the greatest common factor, and factoring by grouping, to factor this expression. Good luck and have fun. We can factor a 2x from the first two terms and a positive 5 from the second two terms. We can see that this first term and the second term have a common factor of 3x plus 2. We factor that out leaving us with 2x plus 5 times the quantity 3x plus 2. So here's our factored expression. Try factoring these four terms. This one's a bit harder since we have negative signs. Great factoring skills if you got this correct. We can factor a 3x from the first two terms. We'll have 3x times the quantity 4x minus 3. I've been saying this word quantity a lot and I use it when I really talk about the parentheses. I have 3x times some quantity 4x minus 3. If we distribute the 3x to 4x and minus 3, we wind up with what we started with. So this is correct factoring. Next, I can see that negative 8x and 6 share a factor of 2. This would leave me with negative 4x plus 3 in the second parentheses. You might have gotten stuck here and that's okay. We notice that this first parentheses and the second parentheses aren't the same. The 4x is positive and this is negative. The 3 is negative, but this 3 is positive. Well, instead of taking out a positive 2, let's take out a negative 2. If we factor out a negative 2 from negative 8x, we're left with positive 4x. And if we factor a negative 2 from positive 6, we're left with negative 3. Finally, we factor out the 4x minus 3 from the first term and the second term. This leaves us with 3x minus 2 times 4x minus 3. You could have either have written your answer like this or like this. Both are correct. Try factoring these four terms. Watch out for negative signs and remember to rearrange terms if necessary. There are a number of ways to do this problem. I'm going to show you one of them. I can factor a 6a from the first two terms, leaving me with 4a minus bc in the parentheses. For the second parentheses, I could try pulling out a positive 5, but that would leave me with a negative 4a as my first term. I want a positive 4a here. So instead of factoring a positive 5, let's factor a negative 5. If I factor a negative 5, I'll be left with 4a and negative bc. Here's where you want to be really careful and check. If we distribute both of the terms, we should wind up with we started with. Most importantly, I'm concerned about this last term. I have negative 5 times negative bc. A negative times a negative is a positive. So yes, this is correct. Finally, we factor out our 4a minus bc, which leaves us with this expression. So these are my two factors, and this is the expression in factored form. Now that we've learned about factoring by grouping, let's try another practice problem. Here, we have four terms one, two, three, four, 18x squared minus 9xy minus 30x plus 15y. Since there is four terms, we know that we're going to be factoring by grouping and I want you to put your answer in this box. Don't forget to factor out the GCF if you can find one. So, how did you do? The correct answer is 3 times 2x minus y times 3x minus 5. Let's see how we got that answer. Whenever I see a four term polynomial, I know I want to use factoring by grouping. But remember the first step in any factoring problem is to look for a GCF. In this case, when I look at the four terms, I know that it has a GCF of 3. So I'm going to factor out the GCF from these four terms. So, when I factor out a 3, I'm left with 6x squared minus 3xy minus 10x plus 5y. Now, I'm going to try to factor out what's left inside the parentheses. When I factor by grouping, I want to find the GCF of the first 2 terms, which is 6x squared minus 3xy. The GCF of these first 2 terms is 3x. When I factor a 3x out, I'm left with 2x. 3x times 2x is 6x squared minus y. 3x times negative y gives me negative 3xy. The next thing I want to do is factor out the GCF of the second 2 terms. Now, you have to be careful here. We know we want the second binomial to be 2x minus y over here. But right now, we have negative 10x plus y. This is one of the cases we need to factor out the negative. The GCF of 10x and 5y is going to be negative 5. The reason I factor out the negative is because I want positive 2x. Negative 5 times 2x gives me negative 10x and negative 5 times negative y gives me 5y. Because negative 5 times 2x is negative 10x. And negative 5 times negative y gives me positive 5y. My next step is to factor out the GCF of the two terms inside the parentheses. Remember to carry along the three, and I'm left with 2x minus y, times 3x minus 5. And these second pair of parentheses is redundant. So I can just write 3 times 2x minus y times 3x minus 5. Did you get that? Well done. Let's learn more about factoring. We've seen how to factor a polynomial with factoring by grouping. But, sometimes, it's easier to just recognize special patterns to make factoring easier. We're going to look at those special patterns in this lesson. The special patterns involve the square of binomials and the difference of two squares. When we multiplied polynomials, we saw how to expend each of these three cases. But this time, we're going to be given these forms and we're going to move in the other direction. We want to find the factored form. We're going to focus on these two patterns first. We're going to factor the perfect square trinomials as a perfect square or a squared binomial. See if you could find the pattern and figure out what a and b would be to factor this expression. Now, I know I haven't even shown you how to do this, but, I think you'll be able to figure it out. Write your factors with parentheses in this box. Good luck. x plus 10 squared is correct. Great job if you got that one right. If you're a little stumped, then stay with me and we'll figure this out together. You might've also put x plus 10 times x plus 10, which is also correct. We have the same factor listed twice, so we could've just written it as x plus 10 squared. This expression follows this factoring pattern. The first term is a perfect square. Since x squared is x squared, and the last term is also a perfect square. Since 10 squared is 100. So the a is really x, and the b is really 10. This means that we can rewrite this expression as x squared plus 2 times x times 10 plus 10 squared. We know this perfect square trinomial can be written as a binomial squared. So, we really have x plus 10 squared. Don't worry if you didn't get this first one right, there'll be more to come. Here's a different trinomial, and I want you to try and figure out its factored form. Write your answer in this box. Here the answer should be the quantity x minus 3 squared. Great pattern recognition if you figured that one out. We can see that the first and last terms are perfect squares, x squared is x squared and 3 squared is 9. This term is negative which fits my negative sign in the factoring pattern, so I'll have x squared minus 2x times 3 plus 3 squared. The a is really x and the b is really 3. I know I can factor this using a minus b squared, so I just write parentheses, x minus 3 squared. The one thing we want to notice is that, if this term is positive, then we use a positive in the squared binomial. If this term is negative, then we use a negative sign in our factored form. What do you think would be the factored form for this expression? The quantity 4x plus 5 squared is correct. Fantastic work if you got that one right. We can see that this expression fits this first factoring pattern. We have a perfect square trinomial. The first term is a perfect square, a 4x squared, and the last term is a perfect square, a 5 squared. So the a term is really 4x and the b term is really 5. So to write my factor form, I simply write 4x plus 5 and then square it. Now that we've looked at factoring perfect square trinomials, let's look at the difference of squares. If ever I have the difference of 2 squares, I can factor it as a plus b, times a minus b. This factoring pattern is really helpful, and we'll see it throughout the course. So let's focus on this difference of squares and see if you can factor a couple examples. Try factoring 49x squared times 4. What do you think are the two factors we need? I know this is a perfect square since 7x squared is 49x squared. 4 is also a perfect square, since 2 squared equals 4. So, the a is really 7x, and the b is really positive 2. We can factor the difference of squares as a plus b times a minus b. So the two factors are 7x plus 2 and 7x minus 2. This is our answer. You could have also switched the order of the factors and you would still have gotten it right. What do you think would be the factors for this expression? Be sure your answer is completely factored. That is, there should not be a common factor between any two terms inside of a parenthesis. This question was a bit tricky. Whenever we start factoring, we should remove the greatest common factor first. 9 is the greatest factor that goes into 9x squared and 36y squared. So I can factor that 9 out of my expression and I'll be left with x squared minus 4y squared. So the first term is a perfect square since x squared equals x squared, and the second term is also a perfect square since 2y squared is 4y squared. We can factor this inside parenthesis using a+b times a-b. When I write the factored form, I want to remember to keep my GCF, my greatest common factor. That stays on the outside of the other parentheses. So here's our factored expression. And in this case we have three different factors, one of them being the GCF of these terms. You might have thought to factor this as 3x plus 6y times 3x minus 6y. There's a common factor of 3 in this term, so we can factor it out. There's also a common factor of 3 in these two terms, so we can factor a 3 out from this parentheses as well. So I've 3 times x plus 2y times 3 times x minus 2y. And we can easily see by distributing we'd wind up with these parentheses back from before. We know the order of multiplication doesn't matter, so I can just multiply the 3 times 3 and then list my other two factors. This would have been another way to get our same result. If you want to avoid removing common factors between pairs of terms, then it's best to factor out the GCF first. If we do that, then we won't need to do this in the end. I hope you've gained some insights into factoring more quickly using these patterns. Before we get to some practice on this factoring, let's review our thinking. First we want to decide if there's a GCF. If there is, we should factor it out first and keep it on the outside. If there's not a GCF, then we should ask is there a special pattern here? The special patterns make our life a little bit easier and we can use these to identify the factors. If there's not a special pattern, we want to use factoring by grouping. We can pull out common factors from four terms and then pull out another common factor from those two terms. Try factoring this expression. See if it fits one of the three factoring patterns we've covered and then identify the a and the b. This perfect square trinomial is really a binomial squared. Our a is really 3c, since the quantity 3c squared equals 9c squared. Our b term is really 2d. We know 2d squared equals 4d squared. So this is a perfect square trinomial. And we can factor it as a minus b squared. So we have 3c minus 2d squared. What would this be in factor form? This perfect square trinomial fits this pattern. Our a is really 3x and our b is really 4y. So our final answer is 3x plus 4y squared. Great work on this one. Try factoring this expression. Whenever we start factoring, we want to first look for a GCF, a Greatest Common Factor. There is a Greatest Common Factor for these two terms, it's 3. So I can see that I have a GCF times the quantity a squared minus b squared. The a is really 3x and the b is really 2. So to factor this pattern, we use a plus b times a minus b. We want to make sure we include our GCF in the front, and then we have 3x plus 2, times 3x minus 2, our a plus b, and a minus b. Try this one out. As always we want to start by looking for our greatest common factor. And yes indeed, there is one. It's 5. We take up the 5, leaving us with x squared minus 4y squared. I can see that this line is really a greatest common factor times a squared minus b squared. Our a is x and our b is 2y. So here's our final answer. 5 times x plus 2y, times x minus 2y. This is our factored form. Try factoring this trinomial. Here's the correct answer. Excellent work if you got it. When we start to factor, we want to look for a greatest common factor first. The three terms don't share an x, so I can't factor an x out. The three terms also don't share y, since this first term doesn't have one. And when we look at the coefficients, the greatest common factor is just one. This trinomial is a perfect square trinomial pattern. The a is to x and the b is 5y. So we can factor our trinomial using a minus b squared. 2x minus 5y squared. Try factoring this one. This would be the factored form. Amazing work if you got it right. This one was really tough. As always we want to look for a greatest common factor first. And it turns out eight goes into both terms. So I have 8 times one minus 4x squared. So we have a greatest common factor sitting on the outside, and a squared minus b squared sitting on the inside. The a's really 1, since the quantity a squared is 1. And the b is really 2x since this quantity squared is 4x squared. We keep our GCF on the outside and then we factor using our pattern, a plus b and a minus b. Let's try another practice problem for factoring patterns. Here, we have 18a squared minus 84ab plus 98b squared. Factor carefully and put your answer in this box. The answer's 2 times 3a minus 7b squared. This was an example of a perfect square practice problem. Did you get the right answer? Congratulations if you did. Let's see how we got that answer. Remember, whenever I factor any polynomial, I want to look to see if there's a greatest common factor. When I look at the variables, I can see there is not a variable portion of a greatest common factor. But, I notice 18, 84 and 98 are all even numbers. Since they're all even numbers, I know that there is a greatest common factor of two. So the first thing I want to do is factor out the two. When I factor out the greatest common factor of two. I'm left with 9a squared minus 42 ab plus 49b squared. What I notice when I look at this problem is that the first term and the last term are perfect squares. Let me write it that way. 9a squared can be written as the quantity 3a squared. 49b squared can be written as the quantity 7b squared. When I see a perfect square in the first term, and a perfect square in the second term. I have to check to see if the middle term is 2 times the square root of the first term times the square root of the last term. Let's check. 2 times 3a times 7b is equal to. 21 times 2 is 42 ab. So we know that this is a. Perfect square. Since the first term is 3a squared and the last term is 7b squared and the middle term is 2 times the square root of the first term times the square root of the last term, I know what's a perfect square. Now knowing that it's a perfect squire I have to remember the formula. The square root of the first term is 3A. I nee a minus because the middle term is minus. And then the square root of the last term which is 7B and we square it. Now a good thing to do when you're doing these factoring problems is to check your asnwer. When you check you answer, let's foil this out. 3 a minus 7 b squared is 3 a minus 7 b times 3 a minus 7 b. 3 a times 3 a is 9 a squared. 3 a times negative 7 b is negative 21 a b. Negative 7 b times 3 a is negative 21 a b. And negative 7 b times negative 7 b is Positive 49b squared. So I can combine the 2 middle terms. I can also multiply it through by 2. When I finish multiplying through by the gcf, I get 18a squared minus 84ab plus 98b squared. Which is what we started with. So we know that we got the right answer. Let's see if we have the skills to solve our original equation. We've learned about the greatest common factor, how to factor using special patterns, and how to factor by grouping. Can we use any of those techniques on the left-hand side to help us solve this equation? Answer these questions using yes or no. The answer to all three of these questions is no. The only factor common to all three terms is 1. We also know that we can't use a factoring pattern to factor this side of the equation. 6 is not a perfect square, so this doesn't fit the pattern for a perfect square trinomial, or for the difference of two squares. And finally, we need four terms to do factoring by grouping so this won't work either. Let's look at the left size of that equation more closely. We could remove an x from the first two terms so we'd have x times x plus 5 plus 6. Is this expression the same as this factor for it. Let's try and figure this thing out. I'm going to have you multiply these two factors and then we'll be able to determine if this is the same as this. If we distribute this x, x plus 6 and the 5 text plus 6, what will we get the boxes below? Write the product of the term that we get from the multiplication. x times x would be x squared. X times 6 would be 6x. 5 times x would be positive 5x. And 5 times 6 would be positive 30. These are the four products. If we combine the like terms, we're left with x squared plus 11x plus 30. So, when we think about this factored form and this expression, is it equal to this original expression? Well, we know it's not equal. These are two different polynomials. This 6 wasn't multiplied by a factor of x plus 5 so we can't say that these two things are equal. Let's look more closely at the product of these two factors and this polynomial. Do you remember that number puzzle that we've been playing? Well, there's a deep connection going on between these factors and this number puzzle. We know all three of these forms are equivalent. And for the number puzzle, I'm going to put a 30 in the top and 11 in the bottom. So what are the answers to this number puzzle? Write them in here. I want to start by listing the factor pairs of 30. We have 1 and 30, 2 and 15, 3 and 10, and 5 and 6, and we could keep listing by putting 6 and 5. But we start to repeat a factor pair so we can stop. This lower number is positive 11. So, I know I don't need to have a negatives for both of the factors. I just want to find the factor pair that sums to 11. That factor pair, is 5 and 6. Good thinking if you found that factor pair. So, let's make the connection between these equivalent forms and a Number Puzzle. What do you notice about the answers to this Number Puzzle? Which of these statements is true? Be sure to check all the statements that apply. It turns out all of these are true. 5 and 6 sum to 11. 5 and 6 are also used as the coefficients of x to rewrite 11x. We know 5 and 6 is a factor pair of 30 since they multiply to give us 30. And finally we can see that a positive 5 and positive 6 up here in our binomials. You might be wondering where the 30 and the 11 come from in the number puzzle. Well we actually multiply the coefficient of the x squared term and the constant term together to get this top number. This bottom number 11 comes from our x term. Whenever we want to factor a trinomial we can set up a number puzzle and then find the two factors we need to rewrite the x term. So, I can rewrite this expression as x squared plus 5x plus 6x plus 30. We can rewrite the 11x as 5x and 6x. The 2 numbers come from our number puzzle. By rewriting this x term as 5x plus 6x we can use factoring by grouping. I remove an x from the first 2 terms and a six from the second two terms. And whoa, look at that, our factored form. So for any quadratic trinomial, we can try this process to factor it. We can find two factors of a times c, that sum to the middle number b. We'll rewrite the middle term using those factors and then try factoring by grouping. Try factoring this polynomial, using our techniques. We start the number puzzle by multiplying 1 and 12. This gives us our top number. The x term has a coefficient of 7. So that goes inside the bottom. We need a factor pair of 12 that sums to 7. So that must be positive 3 and positive 4. We rewrite this middle term using the factors that we found. So x squared plus 7x plus 12 is equal to x squared plus 3x plus 4x plus 12. We can use factoring by grouping and remove an x from the first pair of terms and a 4 from the last pair of terms. This leaves us with x plus 4 times x plus 3 Here's a very similar polynomial, and I want you to try and factor it. Write your answer here. We start by multiplying 1 and negative 12, the coefficient of the x squared term, and our constant term. That gives us the top number. Negative 4 is with the x term, so this goes in the bottom of our number puzzle. Here are the factor pairs for negative 12. I know one of the numbers needs to be negative in each of the pairs since a negative times a positive is a negative. We want to find the factor pair that sums to negative 4. That must be this pair, 2 and negative 6. Next we use our factor pair to rewrite the x term. We'll have x squared plus 2x plus negative 6x minus 12. I'm just showing you where these two factors come from in our number puzzle. But it's best to write this part as negative 6x. We can use factoring by grouping to remove an x from the first two terms, and a negative 6 from the last two terms. I need to remove a negative 6 from both these terms, so I wind up with x plus 2 for both of these parenthesis. Remember to distribute, to always have a quick check, to make sure you're doing the step right. We can factor one last time to get x minus 6 times x plus 2, our completely factored form. As you factor more and more problems you want to look back at your work. Loot for patterns. If the product of the first coefficient and the constant term is positive, then both of the factors will have to be positive or they'll both have to be negative. If the product of the first coefficient and the last coefficient is negative, then we know one of these factors must be negative. We also see this in our factored form. Both of these are positive, where as here, one of them is negative. Let's try factoring a harder trinomial. What number should we place in the top and bottom positions inside of our number puzzle in order to factor this trinomial? Our polynomial is in the form ax squared plus bx plus c. We multiply the a and c together to get 12. This is the top number. This number will always come from the product of the coefficient of the x squared term and our constant. The b or the bottom number comes from our x term, the 13. Great work if you put 12 and 13. Finish factoring this polynomial by finding the factors needed to rewrite the x term. Once you've rewritten the x term, use factoring by grouping to finish up. And you might have noticed that this problem is slightly different because we have a 2 here. Our coefficient, our a value for the x squared term is not equal to one. Here, the factor pairs for 12. And I know that each factor pair must be positive, since I have a positive 13 in the bottom. The only factor pair that adds to positive 13 is 1 and 12. This allows me to rewrite the middle term 13x as 1x plus 12x. Next we start factoring by grouping by taking out an x from the first two terms an a 6 from the second two terms. Finally, we factor out a 2x plus 1, leaving us with x plus 6 times 2x plus 1, our completely factored form. You're really improving your factoring skills if you got this correct. What's so great about factoring is that we can check our solution. If I multiply these 2 binomials together, we would do this process in reverse and end up with our original problem. If you want to get faster at factoring trinomials, you want to find the factors of 2 times 6 or 12 that add up to 13. You always want to find factors of a times c that sum to b. Finding these 2 factors allows us to rewrite the middle term. And then allows us to use factoring by grouping. Try factoring this polynomial. Write your answer here. We start out number puzzle by multiplying 5 and 2, which equals 10. 7 is the x term, so that goes into the bottom. We want to find a factor pair of 10 that sums to 7. That must be 2 and 5. We can rewrite the 7x as positive 2x and positive 5x. Now we'll use factoring by grouping to finish out our problem. From the first two terms I can factor out an x, leaving me with 5x plus 2. The second two terms are a little bit tricky. They don't share a factor of 5, of x or 2, but they do share a factor of 1. We can always factor out a 1 if it appears that two terms do not have common factors. Our final factored form is x plus 1 times 5x plus 2. I want to acknowledge that there's other ways to factor this. You might have switched the 5x and the 2x and then continued factoring by grouping. That would work as well. As a quick check on the end, we can do some mental math to make sure this factored form is equal to this polynomial. X times 5x is 5x squared, 1 times 5x is 5x. And x times 2 is 2x. If I add 5x and 2x together, I'll get 7x. And finally, 1 times 2 is positive 2. Whenever we want to factor a quadratic trinomial, we want to find two factors of a and c that add up to b. This allows us to rewrite our x term, like in 7x in the last problem, and then to continue using factoring by grouping. But our real first step is to see if there's a greatest common factor first. We should factor that out and then continue this process if we can. Try factoring this polynomial. Write your answer in this box. We want to find factors of a and c that add up to b, or 1 in this case. 2 times negative 15 is negative 30. And our positive 1 goes in the bottom. Here are the factor pairs for negative 30. Let the other side be the first factor negative in each pair. This factor pair adds up to 1, so I write negative 5 and 6. I rewrite the positive 1x using negative 5 and 6 as coefficients for x. We use factoring by grouping to remove an x and a positive 3 from the first group of terms and the second group of terms. This leaves us with our factored form x plus 3 times 2x minus 5. Great job if you found the factor paired and even better if you got to the factor form. For all the trinomials we've factored so far they had a Greatest Common Factor of 1. We haven't had to pull out a Greatest Common Factor first yet. Whenever we're given a trinomial we should first look to see if there is a Greatest Common Factor. What do you think is the Greatest Common Factor for this trinomial? Write that answer here. Then I want you to factor the GCF from this trinomial. You should have a GCF on the outside and then three terms in parenthesis here. 3x is our greatest common factor, and if we factored it out we would be left with this expression. Amazing algebra skills if you got that right. This will be the prime factorization for these three terms. We can see that 3x would be the greatest common factor. If we multiply what's remaining we'll get 12x squared for the first term, negative 5x for the second term, and negative 2 for the third term. So, we know this trinomial can be factored like this. And now, we want to see if we can continue factoring this inside trinomial. So, if we wanted to continue factoring, which number should we use in our number puzzle? One of these numbers will be the top number, and then one of these will be the bottom number. Choose one from each row. Since we've already factored the 3 x out, we want to work with this trinomial. This top number should be a times c. A is the coefficient in front of x squared and c is our constant term. So 12 times negative 2 equals negative 24, this choice. The bottom number is the b or the coefficient in front of x, so negative 5. Great work if you found these two numbers. I know this question was tricky, since I threw another polynomial at you. But, we want to make sure we work with factoring this quadratic. So when trying to factor this polynomial, we want to rewrite the middle x term, by finding factors of negative 24, that sum to negative 5. Try finishing this number puzzle, and factoring this trinomial. The final answer will have all of the factors including the greatest common factor. So your answer should look like the GCF, a factor, and then another factor. Try your best and don't worry if it's not right on the first try. Here are some factor pairs for negative 24. I made the first factor negative in each of the pairs. I know that none of these pairs could sum to negative 5 since the greater number is in the right hand column. All these sums would be positive. If I make the second factor negative, I can see that the sum of each of these factor pairs would end up being negative. So, the factor pair of negative 8 and 3 sum to negative 5. We can rewrite our negative 5x and negative 8x and positive 3x using these two factors. When our factor pairs are negative and positive, it's generally easier to list the negative term first. This makes our factoring by grouping a little bit easier. We can factor our 4x from the first two terms, and a positive 1 from the second two terms, since the only factor that these two terms share is 1. I used brackets around this part of the factoring because I have parentheses inside. For this inside bracket portion, we have common factors of 3x minus 2, so we can factor that out, leaving us with our final complete factored form. Let's see if we can put our knowledge together and try some practice problems. What do you think the factored form of this expression is? We want to find factors of 10 that sum to negative 7. Well, the two factors must be negative 2 and negative 5. We can rewrite the middle term using minus 2x and minus 5x, from these factors. Then, we do our factoring by grouping and our final answer is x minus 5 times x minus 2. This stuff right here is the trickiest part. We need to factor out a negative 5 from both of these terms. If I factor out a negative 5 from positive 10, I'm left with negative 2. Remember that you can check your work by distributing. This allows us to be sure that we've done factoring by grouping correctly. Moving this way would be factoring, so if we distribute, we would be undoing that process. Nice work with your negative numbers and your factoring if you got that one correct. Try factoring this expression. This was the factored form. Excellent work if you got that one correct. When we start to factor, we should always ask ourself, is there GCF. Each of these terms doesn't share an a, but they do share a 5. If we factor out a 5, we're left with this trinomial. We multiply a times c to get negative 45. And then we put negative 4 in the bottom, the b term. We want to find factors of a times c that sum to b. So we want to find factors of negative 45 that sum to negative 4. Here are factor pairs for negative 45. I made the first factor negative, each of these sums would be positive so I need to make the second factors negative. 5 and negative 9 sum to negative 4. So this is what I use to rewrite negative 4a. Remember it's best to put the negative coefficient first. It makes our factoring more simple. We can factor 3a from the first two terms, and a positive 5 from the second two terms. Finally we factor out an a minus 3 to give us this expression. And we don't actually need to include these brackets anymore since all we have between factors is multiplication. This is the complete factored form. Here's another practice problem. Good luck on this one. For this trinomial, we want to find factors of a hundred, that sum to negative 20. We get the hundred from multiplying 25 times four. These are the factor pairs for positive 100. But remember that this is positive 100, and I have a negative 20 down here. We need to find factors of positive 100 that sum to negative 20. This must mean that our factor pair must contain two negative numbers. So negative ten and negative ten must be the answers here. They multiply to give us positive 100 and they sum to negative 20. But before I go to do this step, I should have asked myself first, is there a GCF here? Well two doesn't go into every number because this one's not even. They don't all share an x, and there's no other common factors for 4, 20 and 25 besides one, so I can continue factoring as usual. We can factor 5x from the first two terms and a negative two from the second two terms. Completing my factoring by grouping, I have 5x minus 2 times 5x minus 2. Since it's factors repeated, I can simply write it with a square. Here's my complete factored form. Some of you might have taken a shortcut. You might have recognized this as a special pattern. Our first term and our last term are perfect squares. So this fits our perfect square trinomial pattern. We can just write out answer as 5x minus 2 squared. The a is 5x and the b is 2. For this practice problem, try factoring this expression. First we want to check to see if there's a greatest common factor other than 1, 1 is the greatest common factor for all three terms, so we don't need to factor anything out. We want to find factors of negative 120 that sum to positive 14. Here's the start of a factor pair list. There are other factors for negative 120 but I already found the one I need, negative 6 and positive 20. We can check this real quick to make sure negative 6 times 20 multiplies to negative 120, and that they sum to positive 14. It's best to rewrite 14a with a negative term first. We finish out our problem by factoring by grouping, and these are two factors, 3a plus 4 and 5a minus 2. That's some great work if you got that one correct. If these are giving you trouble, stay with it. The more practice you do, the better you'll get at math. As you put in more effort, you will improve. Here's another practice problem, try this one out. First we look for a greatest common factor. The only factor shared between the three terms is 1, so we don't need to worry about that. We want to find the factor pair of 42 that sums to 17. That must be positive 3 and positive 14. We can rewrite 17x with 3x and 14x. Then we use factoring by grouping to get our final answer. Great work if you got all or even part of it correct. I know this factor pair was probably hard to find. How about this one? What do you think the factor's would be for it? Write them here. We want to start by looking for our Greatest Common Factor and what do you know all the coefficients are even, so 2 can come out. Now that we factored out a 2, we want to continue factoring this inside portion if possible. We want to find factors of positive 14 and some to negative 15. This 14 comes from multiplying the coefficient of the x squared term 2 by the constant term 7. The negative 15 is simply the coefficient of our x term. We have a positive 14 and a negative 15. This must mean every factor in a factor pair must be negative. We want to use negative 1 and negative 14 since they multiply to give us positive 14 and they add to negative 15. We continue factoring this portion by rewriting the middle term with these two factors as coefficients for x. Then we factor by grouping. We take out an x from the first two terms and a negative 7 from the second two terms. When I remove a negative 7 from positive 7, I'm left with negative 1 here. I also know I did this step correctly, since negative 7 times 2x is negative 14x. And negative 7 times negative 1 is positive 7. We have a common factor of 2x minus 1. So this is our completed factor form. Fantastic work, if you got that correct. Here's a challenge problem for you to solve. Now, there won't be a solution video posted, so feel free to discuss this with a friend or with other students on the forum. Write your factored form here, and good luck. Here's another challenge problem that you can try. And again, this one won't have a solution video. Here's the last challenge problem for this lesson. I just wanted to say you guys are doing great so far. Congratulations on getting so far in visualizing algebra. Let's try another factoring trinomial problem. 2a cubed b, minus 28a squared b squared, plus 96ab cubed. Don't let the problem intimidate you. There's nothing to be afraid of. Just use what you've been learning to factor this trinomial. You can put your answer over here. That was not an easy problem. Correct answer is 2ab times a minus 6b times a minus 8b. If you got it right, well done. If you didn't get it right, don't worry. We're going to go through it right now. Remember the first thing that you always want to do when factoring a trinomial is to look for the GCF. And that is the most common mistake that students make, is they forget to factor out the GCF. If you don't factor out the GCF first, you'll make your life a lot more difficult. Here, when I look at these 3 terms, first of all I noticed that all 3 of the numbers are even, and 2 is the largest number so 2 is going to part of our GCF. If I look at the variables I have an a cubed, an a squared, and an a, so the lowest power of a is to the first. I have a b, b squared and b cube to the lowest power of b is just b. When I factor out the GCF of 2ab from a polynomial, what I am left with? 2ab times a squared is meant 2a cube b. 2ab times minus 14ab, 2ab times negative 14ab, gives me negative 28 a squared, b squared. And 2 times 48 gives me 96. A, I need a b squared. So after I factor out the GCF of 2ab, I'm left with a squared minus 14ab plus 48b squared. Now I need to factor this polynomial. For this polynomial, since the coefficient of the a squared term is 1, I need the factors of 48 that add up to negative 14. Since this is a positive number and this is a negative number, I know that both of my factors are going to be negative. A negative times a negative is a positive and a negative plus a negative gives me a negative. When I think of the number 48, there are several ways to factor the number. The 2 factors of positive 48 that add up negative 14 is negative 6 times negative 8. So I can rewrite negative 14ab as negative 6ab minus 8ab. Now that I have 4 terms, I can factor by grouping. Don't forget to carry down your GCF. Now I need to look at the GCF of a squared and negative 6ab. Which is simply a. When I factor an a out, I'm left with a minus 6b. Now I need to factor out the GCF of the second two terms. I know I want my first term to be positive and my second to be negative. So I know I need to factor out a negative. The GCF of 8ab and 48b squared is going to be 8b. What do I need to multiply 8b by? What do I need to multiply negative 8b by to get negative 8ab? Just a. And what do I need to multiply negative 8b by to get positive 48b squared? Negative 6b. Now the last step for factoring by grouping here is to pull out the new GCF which is a minus 6b. And what do I have left over? A minus 8b, that's how we got the answer. I know these problems aren't easy, but factoring is a key skill for the whole rest of the course. So it's very important that you're able to factor any polynomial to finish this course. So don't get discouraged, it takes a lot of practice. Keep up the good work. And don't worry, you will master factoring. Factoring is a key concept for the rest of this course. We will be using factoring to solve many additional problems throughout the rest of the course. So mastering factoring skill is extremely important. I know it's not easy, but the more you practice, the better you'll get. And you will master factoring. I know you've already had some practice factoring some trinomials. Let's try a couple more problems. 50 x squared y squared minus 15 x y squared minus 20 y squared. Put your answer in this box. The correct factorization of this trinomial is 5y squared times 5x minus 4 times 2x plus 1. That was a pretty tough problem, How do you do? If you got it right, you are on your way to being a factoring genius. Let's see how we got this answer. Remember, when I'm factoring any polynomial, I want to check to see if there's a greatest common factor. When I look at these three terms, I notice a couple of things. The first thing I notice is all three terms have a y-squared. In that case, I should be able to factor out a y-squared. The other thing that I notice is that each of the three terms is divisible by 5. So this polynomial has a GCF of 5 y-squared. When I factor out the 5 y-squared from each term, what am I left with? When I factor out the GCF, I'm left with 10 x squared, minus 3 x minus 4. 5 y squared times 10 x squared gives me the 50 x squared y squared. 5 y squared times negative 3 x is negative 15 x y squared, and negative 4 times 5 y squared gives me the negative 20 y squared. After I factor out the GCF, I need to look at the remaining polynomial, 10 x squared minus 3 x minus 4. Now I have to factor this trinomial. Remember when there is a coefficient in front of the x squared variable, you have to multiply the coefficient of the x squared variable by the constant term. To factor this polynomial, I have to look at the factors of 10 times negative 4 which is negative 40, that add up to negative 3. There are a lot of different factors that multiply together to get negative 40, but the factors that multiply together to get negative 40, and add together to get negative 3, are negative 8 and 5. Negative 8 times 5 is negative 40, negative 8 plus 5 is negative 3. Now we need to rewrite the middle term, using these two factors. When I rewrite negative 3x using my factors, I get 10x squared minus 8x plus 5x which gives me the negative 3x minus 4. Now I can factor by grouping. When I factor by grouping, I notice that the GCF of the first two terms is 2x, and I have 5x minus 4. 2x times 5x is 10x squared. 2x times negative 4 gives me negative 8x. Now this is an interesting situation. Here I have 5x minus 4, and that's what I want my second binomial to be. So what do I factor out? There is no GCF here. Well, technically there is a GCF, but the GCF is simply one. 1 times 5x, 5x. 1 times negative 4 is negative 4. Now I see the same binomial in both places, so I can now factor that out. Don't forget to bring along our overall GCF, 5x minus 4 times 2x plus 1. That was a pretty difficult problem. Great job if you got it right. If not maybe try it again. We've learned about the greatest common factor and how to factor by grouping. Let's see if we can use that knowledge to solve this equation. Let's start by factoring the left side of the equation. Write your two factors in this box. When we factor a quadratic trinomial, we want to find factors of a times c that sum to b. So in this case, we want to find factors of 1 times 6, or just 6, that sum to 5. I know 3 and 2 are factors of 6, that add to 5. So I can use those to rewrite my middle term. Then we use factoring by grouping to get x plus 2 times x plus 3. Great work if you got that one right. You might have noticed a pattern when factoring trinomials that have an a value of 1. The two factors here always appear in this parentheses. But keep in mind, this is only if the a value is 1. We changed our equation to look like this now. Let's think about this new equation. We know x really represents some number so I have one number here added to 2 and I have another number here added to 3. We really have a number times a number equals 0. Which of these statements must be true about the two numbers? Choose the best choice. This last choice is correct. Fantastic reasoning if you figured that one out. As an example, the first number could be 4 and the second one could be 0. We know 4 times 0 equals 0. And let's say the second number is 5. 0 times 5 equals 0. Now, I don't actually know that one of the numbers is 4 or the other is 5, but one of them must equal 0, since our product is 0. When we multiply two number together and get zero, then we know that one of the numbers, a or b, must equal zero. This is called the Zero-Product Property. Let's use that knowledge and try and answer this question. What would the product be of all of these binomials? And if all these variables are confusing to you, just remember that all of these are numbers. Write your answer here. Well the answer would be zero. This one was tough. So don't worry if you didn't get it right on your first try. We can see that one of the factors is x minus x. Well, we know x minus x would equal zero, so I have a bunch of other numbers, times zero, times a bunch of other numbers. Anything times zero is just zero. I think it's pretty amazing how one number can have such a unique property in math. This one zero makes this whole entire multiplication zero. Let's get back to trying to solve our quadratic equation. We know either this first number can equal 0 or the second number could equal 0. So, we can set each factor equal to 0. We solve each equation and we know x could equal negative 2 or x could equal negative 3. Just like linear equations, we can also Check a Quadratic Equation. After we solve for our two answers, negative 2 and negative 3, we can plug them back into our original equation to make sure we're correct. I want you to check our two solutions by plugging in the appropriate numbers into the parenthesis. For the first one, we plug in negative 2 for x. The quantity negative 2 squared is 4. And 5 times negative 2 is negative 10. These numbers sum to negative 6. And these numbers sum to 0. For this check, we have the quantity negative 3 squared. Plus 5 times negative 3 plus 6 equals 0. The square of negative 3 is 9, and 5 times negative 3 is negative 15. These numbers sum to negative 6 and these numbers sum to 0. Whenever we write the solution to a quadratic equation, we write it as a set. X could equal negative 3, or x could equal negative 2. Use curly braces on the outside, and commas between the elements. You'll also notice that I listed the negative 3 first. By convention, we list the numbers from least to greatest. For the first practice, try finding the solution to this equation. Keep in mind that not all quadratic equations can be solved using factoring. This one can. For this quadratic, we want to find factors of 1 times negative 4 that sum to 3. Negative 1 and 4, multiply, to give us negative 4 and sum to give us 3. Since the coefficient on the square term is just 1, I can use these factors for my factored form. Remember that this would not be the case if this was not a 1. We'd have to use factoring by grouping. Then, we use our 0 product property to set each factor equal to 0. Adding one to both sides, we get p is equal to 1. And subtracting four from both sides, we could get p is equal to negative 4. Great work if you got this solution set. Just as we did when factoring trinomials, we want to factor out any greatest common factor before solving an equation. After we factor, we want to set each factor equal to zero, including our greatest common factor. For example, if we wanted to solve this equation, we'd want to remove a greatest common factor first. Do you see it? And it turns out that this equation will have three solutions. And you might be wondering why. Well, the highest power here is a three, and this highest power on the variable tells us how many solutions we'll have for an equation. So, since we have z cubed or z to the third, we'll have three solutions. So, what would be the answers here? What could z equal? You might have done some mental math or you might have shown all the work. Either way, the final answer is negative 1, 0, and 1. First, I factor 6z out from both terms. This is the greatest common factor. Next, we factor this difference of two squares. You have a squared minus b squared. So I can write z plus 1 and Z minus 1. And we know the product of these factors equals 0. We set each of the factors equal to 0 and then we solve for z. So z could equal 0, negative 1, or positive 1. So, we saw that we could get three solutions when we have a third power for a variable. In this case the three solutions were all different. But sometimes we can get the same solution more than once. For example, in this equation, one of the solutions will be repeated. Do you think you can find what they are? Sometimes we'll need to change the equation before attempting to factor. What do you think would be the best step to perform next if we wanted to factor this equation? Choose one of these steps. Well it turns out it would be best to subtract 30a from both sides. I know there's a lot of different options here, so lets see why. We've seen factoring quadratic equations in this form. The variable was x and the numbers were a, b, and c. In this case, my variable isn't x. It's a. And my numbers are 2, 30, and 112. If I can move this 30a to the other side, then I'll have my quadratic in this form. 30a is not like with a squared or 112. So, I'm going to list it here, so that way it falls in the middle of the 2 terms. I'll get 0 on the right, and then 2a squared, minus 30a, plus 112 on the left. Now this is something I'm familiar with and we can factor it. So you try and finish solving this problem, what would be the solutions to the equation? Write your solution as I said in this box. I'll admit, this one is a bit tricky. So try again if at first you don't succeed. 7 and 8 were the correct answers. Fantastic job factoring if you got those correct. When we start to factor a quadratic Equation we should look for the GCF first. All the coefficients are even, so we can remove a 2. If we factor a 2 ,we're left with a squared minus 15a plus 56. Now we want to find factors of 1 times 56. At sum to negative 15. This top number's positive, and this bottom number's negative. This must mean my two factors have to be negative. Negative 7 times negative 8 is positive 56. And negative 7 plus negative 8 is negative 15. Since the coefficient is 1 I can use these two factors in my factors. Next we set each factor equal to 0. We know 2 does not equal 0. So 2 is not a solution. When we solve these two equations we get a is equal to 7 and a is equal to 8. Try solving this equation. As a hint, you'll want to distribute the p and then rearrange your equation. Write your answer here. p could equal negative 2, or 1 4th, excellent effort if you got that one correct. First we distribute the p then we subtract 2 from both sides. The negative 2 does not have any liker terms. So we have 4p squared plus 7p minus 2 equals 0. We look for our greatest common factor, and the only common factor between these three is 1. So we can't factor anything out. Now I want to find factors of negative 8 that add to 7. The two factors are 8 and negative 1, they multiply to give us negative 8 and they sum to give us 7. These two factors allows to rewrite our middle term and then we can use factoring by grouping. We continue factoring our equation by factoring a p by the first group of terms, and a 2 from the last group of terms. Next we said each of these factors equal to 0. P could equal 2 or p could equal 1 4th. These are our solutions. I know these are some tough problems, so keep up your effort. Try this one out. What could m equal in this case? Write your answer here. Negative 2 and 5 are correct. This equation doesn't need to be rearranged. We just want to find factors of negative 10 at sum to negative 3. Negative 5 and 2 are the factor pair we need. We write our factors, set each one equal to zero and solve for m. So, m could equal 5 or m could equal negative 2. And remember, we can always check our answers. We can plug each answer into the original equation to check. I get true statements in the end, so yes, 5 and negative 2 are correct. How about this equation? What could be the values of a? Negative 1 and 3 halves, or 1 and a half, is correct. Excellent algebra skills for getting that one right. When we look at the quadratic equation, we want to look for our greatest common factor first. Each term shows a factor of 5. So I can factor that out. We can factor the 5 out, leaving us with 2a squared, minus a, minus 3. Remember to keep writing this as an equation. All of these factors multiplied together equal 0. Next I want to find factors of negative 6 that sum to negative 1. I can use negative 3 and positive 2. We remove an a from the first group of terms and a positive 1 from the second group of terms. There's no other greatest common factor for these two terms except 1. I notice that I have 2a minus 3 for both of the parenthesis. This lets me do factoring by grouping. We factor 2a minus 3 from this first term and the second term to leave us with a product of factors. Next we set each factor equal to 0, and then we solve for the values of a. We know 5 doesn't equal 0, so this is not a solution. A could equal negative 1, or a could equal 3 halves. And this would be our solution set. For our challenge question I want you to try and solve this equation. What's the solution set? In the previous lessons we worked with polynomial expressions. The variables had non negative integer exponents. And our expressions could contain any number of terms. We learned how to add, subtract, multiply and even divide these polynomials. In the upcoming lessons, we'll make use of our new factoring and look at performing these same operations for rational expressions. A rational expression is a ratio of two polynomials. It is a fraction in which the numerator and the denominator are both polynomials, 1 over x is an example of a rational expression, since 1 is a mynomial and x is also a mynomial. The second example contains the polynomial x plus 2 in the numerator, and 3x minus 1 in the denominator. So this is also a rational expression. And this course will prepare you to handle any sort of polynomial or rational expression. You'll be able to add, subtract, multiply and even divide these rational expressions by the end of this unit. Before we go into more depth about rational expressions, let's recall our knowledge about fractions. A fraction is a rational number or a ratio of two integers. In this case, we have the ratio of five to eight or five eighths. A student showed the following work when trying to simplify five eighths. Do you think this work is correct, and why? Choose yes or no and then check off either reasons that support your answer. This work would not be correct, since we know that four-eighths would be equal to one-half. More importantly, we know that this step cannot be correct. The student tried to simplify terms in the numerator and in the denominator. Remember terms are separated by addition or subtraction. We cannot cancel terms, but we can cancel factors. Factors are numbers or variables that are multiplied in the numerator or denominator. For example, if we started with six-12ths. We can rewrite the 6 as 2 times 3, and 12 as 2 times 6. We can simplify the factors of 2, since these cancel out to equal 1. This would leave us with 3 6. We repeat this process one more time by rewriting 3 and 6 with factors. We can cancel the 3s, since they make an equivalence of 1. This leaves us with one half. So whenever we're working throughout this unit keep in mind that we can't cancel terms, we can only cancel factors, things that are multiplied in the numerator and in the denominator. And finally, we know 5/8 cannot be simplified since 5 and 8 do not share a common factor. So we also need to include this reason. We can use our knowledge of canceling factors to help us simplify rational expressions. We simplify a rational expression the same way that we simply fractions. We just need to cancel the factors that appear in the numerator and the denominator since the factors reduced to 1. We can use these steps for any rational expression we encounter. So let's start off with this one. I want you to factor the numerator and the denominator in the set here. Well we know we can factor a 3 from both the 1st term and the 2nd term leaving us with x minus 4 for our 2nd factor. For the denominator we know that they share a common factor of 5 so we put that out in front which leaves us with x minus 4 for our 2nd factor. So, this would be our factor rational expression great job if you found it. Now that we have factored each part of our fraction, we can remove the common factors or simplify them since they equal one. For example, we know that this quantity that X minus four divided by the quantity X minus four would equal one. This would leave us with three times one which is three and five times one which is five, or three 5th. We know we can do this because X really represents a number, so if X were five we would be left with three times one and five times one, which is 3 5th. But x doesn't have to be 5, it could be any number. If we let x equal 6 then we plug in 6 for x and we get 3 time 6 minus 4 divided by 5 times 6 minus 4. This is really the same as 3 times 2 divided by 5 times 2. The twos are factors that reduce to 1, so we really have 3 fifths. It wouldn't matter what the value of x was. The quantity x minus 4 divided by the quantity x minus 4 would always equal 1. But this simplification to 3 5th wont be true for every value of X. There is actually one value of X that makes it not true. What value do you think it is? You'll want to think back to what you know about fractions and what you know about their denominators. Take some time to think, and when you're ready, put your answer here. We know that the denominator of a fraction cannot equal 0. So, if we solve this for x, we know x cannot take on the value of 4. Now, I didn't show the steps of adding 20 to both sides and then dividing by 5, but I think that you can easily see that if x were 4, we would get 0, which can't happen for the denominator. This idea of excluded values of x is really important. Later, when we solve equations with rational expressions, we want to make sure we don't allow certain values for the variable or for x. We don't want the denominators to be 0. Let's try simplifying this rational expression. First, I just want you to factor the numerator and the denominator. Write your factors here. To factor the first trinomial, we want to find factors of 30 that sum to negative 11. These factors are negative 5 and negative 6, and since our quadratic term has a 1 in front of it, we can just use these factors in our factored form here. X minus 5 times x minus 6. For the denominator we want to find factors of 1 times 20, or 20. That sum to negative 9. Those would be negative 4 and negative 5. And again since our quadratic term has a 1 as the coefficient, we'll use these factors in our factored form. Great job factoring if you got one or both of those correct. Now, that our fraction has been factored, we can cancel the factors that appear in the numerator and in the denominator. You can write your answers here. We can see that there's a common factor of x minus 5 in the numerator and in the denominator. So we know those simplify to 1. This would leave us with x minus 6 in the numerator and x minus 4 in the denominator. Great job on that simplification. Now, that we have this fraction, can we make this simplification to get 3 halves, yes or no? Well that answer would be no. We can't do this simplification. We cancelled terms here. Remember we can only cancel factors, or things that are multiplied in the numerator and in the denominator. X minus 6 divided by the quantity x minus 4, would be our final answer. If you're ever trying to simplify a fraction further, ask yourself if you can factor the numerator and the denominator, or if you can cancel factors that appear in both. In this case, we can't factor anything besides 1 out of the numerator and the denominator, and these 2 factors aren't the same. So, this is our final result. Try simplifying this rational expression. Remember to only cancel factors that appear in the numerator and in the denominator The first thing we want to do is factor our numerator and denominator. To factor the numerator, we find factors of negative 8 that sum to positive 2. And since the coefficient in front of m squared is 1, we can use these two factors in our binomials. For the denominator, we want to find factors of negative 12 that sum to negative 1. These factors are negative 4 and positive 3. Now, we can't just use these factors in our binomials since the m squared has a coefficient of 2. Instead, we'll need to use factoring by grouping. Using that method, we get a denominator of 2 m plus 3 times m minus 2. Now that we have our factored form, we can cancel factors that appear in the numerator and denominator. Since they equal 1. And this leaves us with our solution. We know we can't simplify the m's anymore since we have a sum and the numerator and the denominator. We don't have anymore factors to cancel. In the last few examples, we saw when rational expressions had a factor in the numerator and the denominator that equaled 1. This is true for the quantity m minus 2 divided by m minus 2. We know this fraction really equals 1. But what do you think about for these expressions? What do you think these would equal? Write your answer in the boxes. Well it turns out all of these are negative 1. For the first fraction we can think about simplifying the common factor of 6. Leaving us with negative 1 divided by 1 or just negative 1. We can use the same reasoning for the rest of the examples. They will all equal negative 1 since we'll have one factor that's positive in the numerator. And one factor that's negative in the denominator. It doesn't matter where the negative sign falls, we just need one of them to be negative in order for our answer to be negative one. Instead of just looking at numbers, now, let's look at polynomials. What do you think these expressions would equal? Write your answers here. The second one might have been tricky but they both equal negative 1. We want to remember that the negative sign is really a negative 1 being multiplied by this expression. We know x plus 3 divided by x plus 3 equals 1. So now we can simplify our fraction. This just leaves us with negative 1. For our second rational expression, we can think of a 1 being outside of the expression a plus 4. For the denominator, we're going to factor out a negative 1. Leaving us with negative 1 a plus 4. If we were to distribute this negative 1 back inside the parenthesis we'd get our original denominator. We know this step is correct. We can simplify the a plus 4s since they equal 1leaving us with 1 times 1 in the numerator and negative 1 times 1 in the denominator. This just simplifies to negative 1. You might have spotted this first one easily. Great work if you. If you did. It's okay if this one gave you trouble. We're going to focus in on this idea of opposite polynomials. For two polynomial expressions to be opposite, every corresponding pair of terms must opposite in sign. We know addition is commutative so we can rewrite these terms by adding the opposite. I'll move the negative x squared to the front, the 3x to the middle, and the negative 8 to the end. Notice that when we move these terms around, we just keep the sign with it. The three x's are positive, the eight is still negative and the x squared is also still negative. Now we can definitely see that these two polynomials are opposites. The x squared terms are opposites since one is positive and the other is negative. The three x's are opposites since one is negative and the other is positive And the eights are opposites, since the first one's positive and the second one's negative. And the neat part about opposite polynomials and rational expressions is that they simplify to negative1 . We can think about factoring a negative 1 from each of these terms. So we'll have negative 1. Times the opposite sign of all those terms in the denominator. The numerator will just stay the same and we can think about multiplying it by a positive 1. Here we have a common factor in the numerator and a denominator, so this all equals 1. And finally, since we have this negative sign down in the denominator, our answer simplifies to negative 1. For two polynomial expressions to be opposites every corresponding pair of terms must be opposite in sign. Knowing this, I want you to determine whether each of these rational expressions is equal to positive one, negative one or something else. Choose one of these for each expression. Good luck. For the first expression, we can switch the terms in the denominator, since addition is commutative. So we'll have x plus 7 divided by the quantity x plus 7. These expressions are identical, so we're really left with positive 1. For the second rational expression, we know it equals negative 1. This b squared is positive and this b squared is negative, whereas this 5 is negative and this 5 is positive. So, we definitely have opposite polynomials. We see that here, if we just reverse the terms of the denominator and keep the signs in front of them. We factor a negative 1 from the denominator and then the b squared minus 5s can cancel. This leaves us with negative 1. For this third one, you might have thought it was negative 1. You might have cancelled the terms which are a and then simplified negative 5 over positive 5. But, remember, we can't cancel terms. We can only cancel factors. A is positive in the numerator and positive in the denominator, so, these aren't opposite polynomials. The 5s have different signs which mean this polynomial can't equal positive 1. It must be something else. And for the last one, we could switch the terms in the denominator, and then, factor a negative 1 from the numerator. The common factors of 2x minus 9 simplify to 1, leaving us with negative 1 as our result. Great work if you even got two of those correct. These were pretty tough. What about these rational expressions? Are they equal to positive 1, negative 1, or something else? The first two are equal to negative 1, the 3rd one is equal to positive 1, and the last one is something else. We know these first two are equal to negative 1 since each rational expression contains opposite polynomials. The x terms are opposite in sign here, and the y terms are also opposite in sign. So we know that this fraction can simplify to negative 1. The same is true for this fraction. The b squared terms are opposite in sign, the 5b terms are opposite in sign and the constant of 1 is also opposite in sign. I didn't show the factoring here, but we know that it will equal negative 1 if we remove a factor of negative 1 from the denominator and cancel our trinomial. In our third example, the y terms have the same sign, and the x terms have the same sign. So really, this fraction is the same expression. In this third rational expression, the y terms have the same sign, as do the x terms. If we switch the order of addition in the numerator, we'll have x minus y divided by the quantity x minus y. We know these expressions are exactly the same, so we really have 1 divided by 1, or just positive 1. For this last expression, we know it needs to equal something else. We can't just square each term and call it a day. We know that this is really x plus 2 times x plus 2. When we square a binomial, we get a perfect square trinomial. Looking at this numerator and denominator, we know that our fraction doesn't equal positive 1 or negative 1. Let's continue our exploration of rational expressions. This time I'm going to show you 4 rational expressions and I want you to find the one expression that is not equal to the other 3. In other words you want to try and either to simplify these to be positive 1 or negative 1 or you want to rearrange them to make them look like each other. Be sure to chose the odd one out. The one that looks different. This expression is the odd one out. The other ones equal positive 1. This expression equals 1 since we have the same expression in the numerator and the denominator. We've seen something similar like this before if we just switch the terms in the denominator we can see that numerator and the denominator have the same factors. Notice that I'm not cancelling an individual term. I'm cancelling an entire numerator with an entire denominator. So I have one divided by one or just one. This one might have been a little bit tricky. Here we have a negative one times our rational expression. Well we can just distribute this negative sign or this negative one to each term and the numerator. This would give us x plus 3 Divided by 3 plus x. This fraction is identical to this rational expression, so we know it equals 1. For this rational expression, we know that these factors can reduce to 1, but we're left with a negative sign out in front, or a negative 1 times 1, which is just negative 1. What about for these four expressions? Which one of these is different? We know this is the answer. This rational expression is the odd one out, since it equals positive 1. This expression over here is really equal to negative 1, since x minus 7 divided by the quantity x minus 7 simplifies to 1. We get a negative 1 since we have a negative sign sitting out here. This is really negative 1 times 1. For this first rational expression, we can switch the order of the denominator. I can have the negative x come first, and then followed by the positive 7. We can see that this expression is the same as this last expression down here. But this doesn't quite look like negative 1. But these two rational expressions don't look like negative 1, but in fact, they are. We know these expressions in the numerator and denominator are opposite polynomials. The x terms are opposite in sign, as are the constant terms. We can factor a negative 1 from our denominator to get negative 1 times x minus 7. Then we can simplify our common factors in the numerator and denominator, leaving us with negative 1. Nice thinking if you found that one. What about for these four expressions? Which one is different? And as a hint, these won't simplify to positive 1 or negative 1. You'll need to manipulate each rational expression to see if they're the same. We can see that these two rational expressions are equal. If we switch the order of the terms in the numerator of this expression, we'll get x plus 9 divided by the quantity x minus 9. Now we need to decide between these two expressions. We can switch the order of the terms in the numerator and in the denominator. The x stays negative here and the 9 stays positive. For this expression, we don't want to switch the order of the numerator, since it's already x plus 9. It matches the other ones. And here's where this negative sign comes in handy. We can distribute this negative sign to each term in the numerator, or to each term in the denominator. I'm going to multiply our denominator by negative 1. Negative 1 times 9 is negative 9. And negative 1 times negative x is positive x. Finally, we commute this edition to get x plus 9, divided by the quantity x minus 9. So we know this rational expression is equal to these two. This one is definitely different. Now that we've seen different types of rational expressions that equal 1 and negative 1, let's try and define some others. What do you think this would equal? Write your numerator here and your denominator here. Good luck. This first trinomial can be factored as x plus 4 times x plus 6. We want factors of positive 24 that sum to positive 10. The second trinomial can be factored into x plus 5 times x plus 4. We want factors of positive 20 that sum to positive 9. Once we have our factored form, we cancel the factors that appear in the numerator and the denominator so we're left with x plus 6. Divided by the quantity, x plus 5. Great work if you've got this as your final rational expression. Try factoring this expression. Remember to use all your factoring skills and start by looking for a GCF. Good luck. This is our simplified expression, 8a divided by the quantity a plus 5. We can start factoring the numerator by removing a common factor of 8a from each term. This leaves us with a second factor of a plus 4. This denominator is actually identical to the last problem we looked at. The x has been replaced with a. So we have the same factors, a plus 5 and a plus 4. We just have a instead of x. We cancel the common factor of a plus four in the numerator and denominator, leaving us with eight a divided by a plus five. Keep in mind these are both positive ones, so we wouldn't need to change anything in terms of signs. Sometimes our two factors might reduce to negative one. In that case we would need to multiply our expression by a negative one. We would have a negative sign in front. Try simplifying this expression. Write your answer here. Here's our answer. Great work if you got that one correct. We can factor the numerator to be x plus 3 times x minus 3, since this is the difference of two squares. Our denominator factors into x plus 3 squared. This is a perfect square trinomial. The first term is a square. The second term is a square, and the middle terms is twice the square root of the first term and the last term. We know for the square exponent, we really write this factor twice. From here, it's easy to see we have a common factor of x plus 3, in the numerator and the denominator. So those simplify to equal 1. Another way to think about simplifying this is to do it over here. We have an exponent of 1 for this x plus 3. An exponent of 2 for this x plus 3. We use one of these x plus 3s to cancel with the 1 and the numerator. So our power of 2 drops down to a power of 1 and we lose this factor altogether. Keep in mind that things aren't equal in 0 here, it's really that we have an equivalence of 1, x plus 3 divided by x plus 3. This leaves us with our final answer. Try simplifying this expression. Write your answer here and be sure to factor out a greatest common factor first. We can remove a 4 from the first 3 terms of out numerator, leaving us with 4 times x squared plus 4x plus 4. We can also remove a 4 as a greatest common factor from 4x and 8. This leaves us with 4 times x plus 2 in our denominator. We have a quadratic trinomial here and not only that it's a perfect square trinomial, so we can factor that as x plus 2 times x plus 2. Finally, we cancel the factors in the numerator and the denominator. So x plus two divided by x plus two equals one, and four divided by four equals one. Remember, we're only simplifying factors, or things that are being multiplied in our numerator and our denominator. This leaves us with x plus two divided by one, or just x plus two. Notice that not every rational expression simplifies to another fraction. Sometimes we'll just get another polynomial. What about this expression? What do you think it equals? We can factor this numerator as the difference of two squares. We can write it as 6 minus x times 6 plus x. For this denominator we want to find the factors of negative 48 that sum to positive 2. These factors are negative 6 and positive 8. When I look at my factors it doesn't seem as if anything can simplify out to equal 1 but if i look at these two factors i can see that these are opposite polynomials. The constant term 6 is positive while this one's negative and the x term is negative here while this x term is positive. This means I'll have a factor of negative 1. We can see this if we were to just switch the order of the terms for these two, we'll have negative 6 plus x, then I can factor a negative 1 from this factor. I'll have negative 1 times positive 6 minus x. I change the signs of both of these terms since i factored a negative 1 out. These factors of 6 minus X simplified to 1 but i still have a negative 1 out in front, just like I thought here. Whenever you see opposite polynomial factors you can simplify them to be negative 1. We don't need to show all this work. So we're left with this expression. Now, I want to acknowledge there are a lot of different answers here. This negative sign could have been distributed to either the numerator or the denominator. If we distribute the negative 1 to the numerator, we could have gotten this expression. Or switch the order of these terms and you got this expression. These are all equal. If we distribute this negative one instead of the denominator, we can wind up with any of these expressions. And in fact, all of these are correct. In general, it's easiest to list the negative sign out in front of a fraction and then write your rational expressions. What about this rational expression? What would you get? Notice we've changed one thing here, the sign. This is a negative 2x instead of a positive 2x. Our solution is 6 minus x, divided by the quantity x minus 8. Great job if you got this rational expression. We factor the numerator the same as before, but this time in the denominator we want factors of -8 and positive 6. They multiply to give us -48, and a sum to get us -2. I noticed that x plus 6 and 6 plus x are really the same factors.So I can cancel those since they equal 1. This leaves me with the remaining factors, so I have 6 minus x divided by x minus 8. You might have switched the order of these two terms, giving you negative x plus 6 for the numerator. This would be okay. You might even have gone a step further, and factored negative 1 from the numerator, and that would have been okay too. All of these answers are correct. And if you even followed my advice from the first time, a negative sign out in front would look like this. For our last problem, try simplifying this expression. Our numerator is a difference of two perfect squares. So we can factor it as 2x plus 5y times 2x minus 5y. This denominator isn't identical to one of our factors, but it is an opposite polynomial for this factor. We can see that the 2xs are opposite in sign and the 5ys are also opposite in sign. So these two factors simplify to be negative 1 and were left with negative 1. Times 2x plus 5y. We can distribute our negative 1 to get our answer, negative 2x minus 5y. Fantastic work if you got that expression. Now that we've seen how to simplify rational expressions, let's use that knowledge to help us multiply and divide them. But before we can multiply and divide rational expressions, let's think back how to multiply fractions. What would you get if you multiplied these two fractions together? Write your answer here. Great work if you got 6 divided by 55. When we multiply fractions, we multiply the numerators straight across and the denominators straight across. And if you recall all the way back to our first unit, we want to factor the numerators and denominators first to simplify our math. We know 4 divided by 4 equals 1, and 3 divided by 3 also equals 1. Keep in mind I can only simplify one of these 3's, since one is the numerator and one is the denominator. This other 3 must stay in the numerator since there isn't another 3 in the denominator to cancel it out or simplify to 1. We're left with 2 times 3, which is 6, and 11 times 5 which is 55. We can use the same approach when we multiply rational expressions. So, even something that looks really complicated like this, we can simplify to a smaller fraction. First, we want to factor the numerators, and then factor the denominators. Once we've done that step, we want to cancel or simplify the common factors that appear in the numerator and denominator, since they'll equal 1. So, try factoring and then simplifying this multiplication. What would you get? Put it here. x plus 4 divided by x plus 1 is correct. For the first numerator, we find the factors of 12 that sum to positive 7, which are positive 3 and positive 4. For the second numerator, we find the factors of positive 4 that add to negative 5. These are negative 4 and negative 1. Notice that the a coefficient in front of the x squared term is 1 in every single quadratic. This means that we can just use the factors we find of 12 That summed to 7 in our binomials. The same was true here, we used the factors of positive four that sum to negative five and four in our binomials. These are the factors for our other denominators and now we're ready to simplify. X plus 3 divided by x plus 3 equals 1. And x minus 4 divided by x minus 4 Also equals 1. The last equivalence of 1 is x minus 1 and x minus 1. Remember that these factors don't dis, disappear, they really equal 1. So we multiply 1 times x plus 4 and one's times x plus 1. Any times anything is itself. So we're left with x plus 4 divided by the quantity x plus 1. Let's try another practice problem. What do you think would be the result of multiplying these two fractions together? Write your answer here. 1 divided by x plus y is correct. Fantastic work if you figured that one out. You might not be sure what to cancel here. So let's look at one fraction, and our factors multiplied together. First I'm going to expand this power of two. The quantity x plus y squared is really x plus y times x plus y. Now we just multiply our numerators across and our denominators across. I need to make sure to put parentheses around this x plus y, since we would really be distributing this 2x to each of the terms. We could see that here. But I don't actually want to distribute or multiply the 2x to each term, since you want to be able to cancel factors here and here. These factors reduce to 1, and we're left with a 1 in the numerator and an x plus y in the denominator. You want to make sure that you don't think the numerator is zero. These factors really reduce to 1, so we have 1 times 1, which is 1. Some fractions will end up with a 1 in numerator, and others might have a 1 in the denominator. You'll want to watch out for that. Try multiplying these two fractions together. You'll want to factor the numerators and denominators first, and then, cancel any factors that reduce to one. Write your answer here and leave it in factored form. For example, if your fraction multiplies to this, you don't want to multiply your two factors together in the numerator. Just leave them factored. A plus 3 times a plus 5 is correct, great work if you figured that one out. We can start by factoring the two numerators. The factors of negative 5 that sum to 4 are positive 5 and negative 1. For the second numerator we want to find factors of 15 that sum to 8, those are positive 5 and positive 3. We know we're going to multiply these two fractions together, so we'll multiply every factor in the numerator and every factor in the denominator. We can think of this denominator as 1 times the quantity a plus 5. The same is true for this one, 1 times a minus 1. I show this so that way we can understand we 're really multiplying these two factors together. This is why I use the parentheses around these two expressions. We know a plus 5 divided by a plus 5 equals 1 and a minus 1 divided by a minus 1 also equals 1. This leaves us with a plus 5 times a plus 3 in the numerator divided by 1 in the denominator. Anything divided by 1 is itself so this is our answer. Now, we're going to try something a little more complicated. For this problem, you'll want to start by factoring each parts of the fraction. We'll start there first and check in and then we'll cancel factors after that. These are the correct factors for each part of the fractions. I know factoring can be tough, so if you're getting at least half of these right, great work. If you got stuck on one of these, try to look back at your work and see where you went wrong to get these factors. If you can't find an error in your work then stay with me for this solution. For our first numerator we can pull out a 2x from each term. So we'll have 2x times x squared minus 6x plus 9. Then we notice that this is a special factoring pattern. It's a perfect square trinomial. So we have 2x times x minus 3, times x minus 3. This gives us our first numerator. For this denominator, we want to find the factors of negative 12, that sum to negative 4. This allows us to rewrite our middle term. And then we'll use factoring by grouping to get 3x plus 2 times x minus 2. This is our factored form for our first denominator. For this numerator we want to find the factors of 12 that sum to negative 8. These two factors are negative 6, 6 and negative 2. We'll use factoring by grouping to get 3x minus 2 time x minus 2 for this numerator. And finally for this last denominator we pull out a 6x from both terms leaving us with 6x times x squared minus 9. Then we can factor this difference of squares using x plus 3 times x minus 3. This difference of squares pattern appears in all sorts of math. So it's great that we can recognize it quickly. Here are our fractions in factored form. Now, I want you to use your knowledge of canceling factors to simplify this multiplication problem and then write your final answer here. We can cancel an x minus 3 in the numerator and the denominator. We can also cancel an x minus 2. Now we're left with these factors. We want to be careful here. We can't simplify 3 x minus 2 and 3 x plus 2. They're not identical rational expressions. And they're not opposite polynomials, since the 3 x have the same signs. The same is true of x minus 3 and x plus 3. The signs for the x terms are the same. So these are not identical polynomials, and they're not opposite polynomials. We can, however, simplify 2x and 6x. You know, x divided by x equals 1. And 2 divided by 6 reduces to 1 third. You want to make sure you don't forget about monomial terms. Be sure to cancel common factors for the numbers. And common powers for the variables. After we've done that we have our simplified rational expression, 3x minus 2 times x minus 3 and 3x plus 2 times 3 times x plus 3. Let's try another problem multipying rational expressions. Again, we're going to break this problem into two parts, first I want you to factor each part of the fractions and then we're going to cancel the factors that appear and the numerator and denominators in the second part. You can write the factor expressions here in the corresponding boxes. Be sure you use all that you know about factoring. Look for a greatest common factor first and then use your knowledge of factoring patterns and factoring by grouping if necessary. These are the factored forms. Great work for getting at least half of these right. If you really struggled with these, I would go back and review factoring. Try and get in some more practice before moving on. If you only missed one or two, then see if you could find your mistakes by looking at your factors. If you can't find your mistakes, then continue watching the solution to see where your reasoning went wrong. The greatest common factor for these three terms is one. So let's use factoring by grouping to get our two factors. We want factors of negative 30 that sum to negative 1. The factors are negative 6 and positive 5. Then we can use factoring by grouping to get the factors of 3x plus 1 and 5x minus 2, this is our first numerator. For the denominator, we want to find factors of negative 20, that's sum deposit of 8. The factors would be positive 10 and negative 2. We use factoring by grouping to get our denominator of 2x plus 5 times 2x minus 1, here. Next, we factor this trinomial. The greatest common factor for each term is one, so we need to find factors of negative 60 that sum to negative 7. We don't need to factor out a g c f. These two factors are negative 12 and positive 5. They might have been tough to find. We use factoring by grouping to get 2 x plus 5 times x minus 6. And this is what we put in our numerator. For our second denominator, we want to find factors of negative 30 that sum to positive 13. We use factors by grouping to get our factors of x plus 3 and 5x minus 2. And now we're done factoring, and we're ready to simplify. Use your knowledge of opposite polynomials and canceling factors to simplify this multiplication problem. Write your answer here. And here again, leave your answer in factored form. Don't multiply out any factors together. Here are the common factors that simplify to 1. This leaves us with 3x plus 1 times x minus 6 in our numerator, and x plus 3 times 2x minus 1 in our denominator. Nice thinking if you got here. Here's another multiplication problem. Try finding the factored form for each part of the fractions and write your answers here. Here the factored forms for each part of the fraction. Great work if you got all of these correct. If you made a mistake that's okay too. Now's a great time to go back and look over your work. See if you can figure out how to get these factors. If not, you can always watch the solution. For our first numerator we can remove a 2 x squared as the greatest common factor. This leaves us with x squared plus 4 x plus 3 for our second factor. Now we can easily factor this one by finding factors of 3. That sum to positive 4. That would be positive 3 and positive 1. This is why it's important to find a greatest common factor first. If we don't find this greatest common factor we won't be able to factor each these and cancel our factors in the end. For this denominator we have a coefficient of 1 in front of the x squared term. So we just want to find factors of negative 15 that add to 2. This would be positive 5 and negative 3. For this numerator the greatest common factor of the three terms is 1. So we just want to find factors of negative 50 that sum to positive 5. The factors would be negative 5 and positive 10 and then we can use factoring by grouping. To get our factors of x plus 5 and 2 x minus 5. For our last denominator we can remove a common factor of 6 x from every single term. If we factor the 6 x as a greatest common factor, we're left with 2 x squared plus 3 x plus 1. If we distribute this really quickly we can make sure that this is correct. When we look at factoring this expression, we want to value in factors of positive 2 that sum to positive 3. We can use factoring by grouping. To arrive at the factors of x plus 1 times 2 x plus 1. These factors take the place of this quadratic trinomial. Now we're ready to simply our fractions since everything's in factored form. Great work. Alright, you've done all the legwork to get up to this point. Now reap the rewards and simply cancel the factors in the numerator and denominator. Write your final answer here. And again, leave your answer in factored form. Don't multiply it out like these. Leave it like this. This is the simplified fraction, fantastic work if you found it. I think it's best to start by reducing the factors of x plus one and x plus five. These factors in the numerator and denominator cancel or reduce to one. I don't want to forget about these monomial terms, but everything looks a little confusing right now. So I'm going to rewrite my line. So we have two x-squared, times x plus three, times two x minus five, for our numerator. For the denominator we have x minus 3 times 6x times 2x plus 1. Notice that I switched the order of this 6x and this x minus 3. We can do that since we're multiplying here. We know the multiplication is commutative. We know 2/6 reduces to 1/3 so I can simplify this fraction. We can also simplify our powers of x we have x squared in the numerator and 1 x in the denominator so we'll be left with 1 x in our numerator in our final answer. I'll show it more easily by writing x squared as x times x. We simplify each of these x's since they really equal 1, and 2 divided by 2 equals 1, and 2 into 6 equals 3. This gives us our final answer. Now that you've gotten some practice with multiplying rational expressions, let's move on to dividing rational expressions. And instead of diving right into dividing rational expressions, let's start with what we know, dividing fractions. If we want to divide by a fraction, we really multiply it by the reciprocal of that fraction. So three-sevenths divided by two-sevenths would be three-sevenths times seven-halves. We cancel the factors in the numerator, denominator which leaves us with three halves. We divide rational expressions the same way that we divide fractions. We're going to change division to multiplication and multiply by the reciprocal. So try doing this rational expression problem. Change the division to multiplication and multiply by the reciprocal of this fraction. Make sure you find the cube of 2t before you multiply. When you think you've got it, write your answer as a fraction here. First we cube the quantity 2t. The quantity 2t cubed is 8t cubed. Now that our fraction is simplified, we can change division to multiplication, and multiply by the reciprocal of the second fraction. We just flip this fraction over. I'm going to multiply these fractions straight across to get negative 24t to the 4th, divided by 40t to the 8th. You might have chosen to go ahead and simplify the common factors here. Which is great. We know 8 divides into 24 three times and 8 divides into 40, 5 times. When I look at my t's, I notice that I'll have four more t's in the denominator, so I'll have negative three divided by five times t to the fourth. That's some amazing algebra if you got that one correct. lets try another division problem. We are going to divide this rational expression by this rational expression. Remember to change your division to multiplication and then multiply by the reciprocal of the second fraction. Then your problem turns into something that you've definitely seen before. You can write your final answer here p plus 4 divided by the quantity p plus 2 is correct. Impressive work if you've got that correct. To divide by a rational expression, we multiply by the reciprocal of the second fraction. Now, we really just have a multiplication problem that we're familiar with. We factor this trinomial to get p plus 5 time p minus 1 and we factor this denominator to get p plus 5 times p plus 2. These factors reduce to 1 and we're left with p plus 4 in our numerator, and p plus 2 in our denominator. Try dividing this rational expression. Write your answer here. Fantastic work if you've got 12 n divided by 5. This 3 n minus 6 might have given you trouble so let's see how to do it. We changed division to multiplication, and multiplied by the reciprocal of our second fraction. Also you might have noticed that I factored a 3 from the first two terms in the numerator. I factored this and since I knew I was going to be multiplying my numerators and my denominators together. I want to be able to find factors that reduce to 1. You don't need to show all your simplification at once. So a lot of times I think it's best to rewrite what's remaining. When we write out all the factors, we can see that the 5s would reduce to 1 and one n would reduce to 1, leaving us with 12 n divided by 5. Try dividing these two rational expressions. Write your final answer here. Here's our factored answer. Great work if you got that one correct. To divide a rational expression, we multiply by the recripricol. So, we change division to multiplication and flip the second fraction over. We can use factoring patterns to find the factors of this numerator and. And denominator. This is a difference of squares. So we have x plus 3 times x minus 3. Our denominator, however, is a perfect square trinomial. So we'll have x minus 3 times x minus 3. We find factors of negative 6 that sum to negative 5. Those factors are negative 6 and positive 1. We use factoring by grouping to get 2x plus 1 times x minus 3. For our denominator, we want to find factors of negative 36. That sum to negative 5. Those factors are negative 9 and positive 4. After factoring, we get 3x plus 2, times, 2x minus 3. Now we're ready to simplify our factors. This x minus 3 divided by x minus 3 equals 1. And look at that, there's another x minus 3, divided by x minus Is 3. Those will also equal 1. And our remaining factors are x plus 3 and 2x plus 1 for the numerator, and 3x plus 2 times 2x minus 3 in our denominator. Try dividing these rational expressions. Write your final answer here. R plus 6 s divided by r plus s is correct. That's some amazing work with rationals if you're getting it right. You might have been stumped on how to factor one of these. If so, watch me do the first one, and then see if you can finish tackling this problem. To divide by any fraction, including a rational expression, we change division to multiplication and multiply by their reciprocal of the first fraction. Now we want to start factoring each piece of these fractions. I'm going to start with this first one. We know the first two terms must be r since r times r is r squared. Now we're just trying to find factors of negative 12 that sum to positive 1. Since there's a 1 in front of this r times s. We know that positive 4 and negative 3 multiplied together is negative 12, and sum to give us positive 1, but notice that I need a negative 12 s squared for my last term. This must mean that I need a variable of s after each of these numbers. We can quickly check this factoring by multiplying out the binomials in our head. R times r is r squared, and 4s times negative 3s is negative 12s squared. This positive 1 r s comes from multiplying these two terms together, and adding it to the result of multiplying these two together. So we have negative 3 r s plus 4 r s, which is 1 r s. For this first denominator, we want to find factors of negative 20 that sum to negative 1. For our second fraction we want to find factors of negative 30 that sum to 1. That would be positive 6 and negative 5. And then for our denominator of our second fraction we want to find factors of negative 3 that sum to negative 2 which are negative 3 and positive 1. Now that everything's factored let's cancel our terms in the numerator and denominator. There, r minus 3 s divided by r minus 3 s equals 1. And r plus 4 s divided by r plus 4 s also equals 1. The last factor we need to cancel is r minus 5 s. And this leaves us with our final answer, r plus 6 s divided by r plus 1 s, or just s. For our next problem, I want you to find the quotient or the answer, to this division problem. Write your answer in factored form here. As always, we start by changing division to multiplication, we multiply by the reciprocal of the second fraction. I'm multiplying these binomials together, so I want to make sure that I use parentheses. I have x plus 5 and 5 plus x. If I think back, I can remember that these two are actually identical, they're the same factor. So, we can simplify those or cancel those to make one. This leaves me with 5 minus x in my numerator and x minus 5 in my denominator. And here we have opposite polynomials. The 5's are opposite in sign as are the x's. We know opposite polynomials really reduce to negative 1. So negative 1 is our final answer. Try dividing these rational expressions. Write your final answer here in factored form. We start our problem by multiplying by the reciprocal of our second fraction. We flip it over. We can factor this first numerator as 5x plus 3 times 5x minus 3, since this is the difference of two perfect squares. Our denominator is also a difference of two perfect squares. So we have 2x plus 3 times 2x minus 3. For this fraction, we can factor this numerator by finding the factors of negative 18 that sum to negative 7. Those factors are negative 9 and positive 2. We use factoring by grouping to get 3x plus 1 times 2x minus 3 for this first numerator. And finally, for this denominator we find factors of positive 45 that sum to negative 14. Those two factors are negative 9 and negative 5. These factors let us rewrite our middle term, and then we can use factoring by grouping. We get a denominator of 5x minus 3 times 3x minus 1. Now that we have all of our factors, let's cancel factors that simplify to 1. These two factors would reduce to 1, and these two factors would also reduce to 1, leaving us with these factors for our answer. You're doing amazing at dividing rational expressions and factoring if you got this one correct. All right, For our 7th and final problem I want you to try dividing these two rational expressions. This is a challenge problem, so it's going to be a little bit tougher than one's you're used to. I'll admit, the hardest part is actually factoring, but if you do get the correct answer then great job. You're on your way to becoming a pro at factorizing and rationalizing expressions. Okay, if you attempted to solve this, you should have gotten these as your factored fractions. Now there's a lot of missing work in between. You needed to change division to multiplication and take the reciprocal of that second fraction. I'm not going to show you all the factoring for each of these, but hopefully you can figure it out. In the end, we can simplify the factors a plus 7, 3a plus 2, and 2a minus 5. This leaves us with our answer, 4a minus 3 divided by 3a minus 4. You want to be really careful at the end here, as well. These last two factors have different coefficients for the a. One is 4, and one is 3. You might think that these are opposite polynomials, but we know that's not true since the a's have different coefficients, and the constants are different as well. We can't simplify these at all, so we'll leave this as our answer. For this lesson, we're going to try our hand at adding rational expressions. We're going to draw upon our knowledge of adding fractions to figure that out. For example, if we wanted to add 3 11ths to 2 11ths, we would just add the numerators and keep the denominators the same. We would get a total of 5 11ths. Keep in mind we can only add or subtract two fractions whenever the denominators are like. Keeping this in mind, I want you to try and add these rational expressions together. This last one isn't addition though, it's subtraction. So you want to make sure you subtract the numerator. You'll also need to use your knowledge of simplifying rational expressions for these two problems. Try your best, and don't worry if they're not right on the first try. Here are the correct answers. Fantastic work if you got at least one of those correct. If either of these problems are giving you trouble, then watch the solution and we'll figure it out together. To add these two fractions together, we simply add the numerators. 3 n and 2 n equal 5 n. We leave the denominator alone, so we have 5 n divided by 11. This problem is exactly like the one we saw before. It's just we needed to combine the like terms and our numerator first. For the second problem, we want to add the numerators a and b together, and keep the denominator the same. Since we have a plus b divided by a plus b, we know those reduce to 1. And finally, for this third one, we want to subtract a y from this numerator. So we'll have 2 y minus 1 minus 1 y, we subtract the like terms to get y minus 1 for our numerator. Now we want to factor our denominator to see if it can reduce with our numerator since our numerator has changed and it turns out that's a great move because we can factor and reduce and equivalence of 1. Y minus 1 divided by y minus 1 equals 1. This leaves us with the answer of 1 divided by y plus 2. If you got the first two, excellent work, and I know this one might of given you some trouble. But what if we wanted to add these 2 fractions together? What do you think we could do? Well, adding these 2 rational expressions together is very similar to adding 2 fractions together. If the denominators are different, we need to change each fraction. By finding the lowest common denominator first. We know the lowest common denominator would be 90, the product of these factors. We multiply 1 10th by nine over nine, which is the missing factor from ten. 1 10th by 9 9ths is 9 90ths. For 1 18th we multiply by five over five. This is the missing factor for 18. So 1 18th time 5 5ths is 5 90ths. Now we add these 2 fractions just as we learned before. 9 plus 5 equals 14 and we have 14 90ths. These numbers are both even and so we can reduce them by 2. So these are a couple of fractions. Now, that we've remembered how to add two fractions together, I want you to apply this method to figure out the LCD for these two fractions. What's the lowest common denominator? Two K S squared is the lowest common denominator, great work if you found it. If you're wondering why that's true, it's because these two numbers share a common factor of two. Remember these variables are the placeholders of numbers so two times K would be a number and two time S squared would really be a number as well. We don't know what K is, but it's the other factor for this denominator. And the same is true for s squared. It's the other factor for 2 s squared. We multiply all these together to get 2 k s squared. Now I know I did a little bit of reordering in this situation, but we usually list the coefficient or number first. Then we list the variables in alphabetical order. Now that we know that the LCD is 2ks squared. What should we multiply each of these fractions by in order to get new fractions with denominators of the LCD? Write your answers in these boxes. Well, we should multiply the first fraction by s squared divided by s squared.This would give us s squared over 2ks squared. I know I multiply this first fraction by s squared divided by s squared. S squared is missing from the 2k. If we multiply s squared by 2k, we'll get 2ks squared, which would be the new denominator or our lowest common denominator. For the second fraction, we only need to multiply by k over k. 2s squared times k would give us our lowest common denominator. 2k s squared. Keep in mind that we're really just multiplying by a form of 1 in both of these cases. We're not changing the value of the fractions, we're just changing what they look like. So, just like when adding fractions, we start out by finding the LCD or the lowest common denominator. Next, we multiplied each of these fractions by the missing factors of the lowest common denominator. That was the same for our actual numbers. Now, we're ready for the last step. Let's find the actual fractions that are equivalent and then find the sum. So, what are these two equivalent fractions? And then, what I want you to do is to find the sum of the two fractions and put that here. Good luck. For the first fraction we'll have s squared for a numerator and 2 k s squared for the denominator. For the second fraction we'll have k for a numerator and 2 k s squared for the denominator. And now we're ready to add these two fractions together. We add the numerators together, just like from before and then keep the denominator the same. Be careful that you don't multiply these two numbers together. We really just have s squared plus k. We don't multiply them, since we're adding. So whenever we want to add rational expressions together we should find the lowest common denominator of our fractions. The lowest common denominator is the product of all of the different factors that appear in each denominator. Keep in mind that we want to take the highest power of any factor that appears in a denominator. We're not going to jump into the entire process yet. Let's just get comfortable with this first step of finding the lowest common denominator. What LCD or lowest common denominator would we need in order to add these two fractions together? Now, we aren't going to actually add the two fractions together since we're just getting comfortable with the first step. What do you think the LCD would be? Write it here. If we had a binomial or trinomial in these denominators, we would want to factor them first. But since these are monomials, we can use our factor tree method to figure out what they share. I know 9 and 15 share a common factor of 3, and the a's share a common factor of 1a. The highest power of b that's in common is b squared. So 3ab squared is my greatest common factor. The other factor for this denominator is 3a squared. If we multiply these two together, we'll get our original denominator. Whereas for this fraction, the missing factor is 5b squared, if I multiply these two together we'll get 15, 3 times 5, a, and then b squared times b squared or b to the fourth. We multiply all these factors together to get our LCD. So our lowest common denominator is 3 times 3 times 5, which is 45 and then a squared time a which is a cubed, and b squared times b squared which b to the fourth. I said earlier that you want to use the highest power of any factor for the lowest common denominator. Notice that we have a cubed in a. A cubed is the highest power in either denominator. So we want to make sure that appears in our LCD. Likewise between b squared and b to the fourth, this fourth power is higher, so we know b to the fourth needs to appear in our LCD. This is a quick way you can check to make sure your variables or your factors are correct. Let's try another problem where we find the lowest common denominator. You'll need to factor these denominators first, since they're not just monomials. As a hint, your LCD will contain a constant and two binomials. And you'll want to make sure you leave it in factored form. I know you might not have seen this before, but I want you to give it a try. If you get stuck, there's always this solution. The LCD is 2 times u minus 3 times u plus 3. Fantastic work if you figured that one out. Again, I don't expect you to get that right on your first try, or even maybe at all. Let's see how we do it. We know u squared minus 9 is a difference of two perfect squares. So we can factor this as u plus 3 times u minus 3. So we can rewrite this first fraction like this. For the second denominator we have a common factor of 2. So we can factor that out. Now that we have factored denominators, we can use our factor tree method. These two denominators share a common factor of u minus 3, and the other factor for this one is u plus 3, while the other factor for this one is positive 2. And there it is. We multiply all these together to get 2 times u plus 3 times u minus 3, our LCD. Alright, here's our third and last example of trying to find the LCD. Remember we're not quite adding these two rational expressions together yet. We just want to get a common denominator since these two denominators are different. The lowest common denominator for these three fractions would be p minus 1 times p minus 2 times p plus 3, fantastic work for finding that one. First we factor this denominator to p minus 2 times p minus 1, we find factors of 2 that sum to negative 3. For our second denominator, we find factors of negative 6 that sum to positive 2, which are positive 3 and negative 2. Once our denominators have been factored, we're ready to use our factor tree. So we have p minus 1 times p minus 2 times p plus 3. This is our lowest common denominator. So why do we need to find the lowest common denominator? Well remember that we have to find a common denominator in order to add or subtract fractions. In our very first example, we needed to have 90th in order to add these two fractions together. In the second example, we needed to have a common denominator of 2ks squared in order to add these two fractions together. Once we have a lowest common denominator, we multiply the numerator and the denominator in each fraction by the factors that are missing to change our fraction into an equivalent form. So for 18, it was missing a factor of five. So we multiplied by 5 divided by 5. Likewise for the denominator 2 s squared, we multiply this fraction by k over k. Since k is the missing factor. From 2s squared. When we multiply by k divided by k, we're really multiplying by 1, and we're changing our first fraction into its equivalent form. So let's go back to our third example of finding the LCD. We found the lowest common denominator for these two fractions, and it was p minus 1, times p minus 2, times p plus 3. Remember we want to change these two fractions to an equivalent form. So here's your question. What should we multiply each of these fractions by to get an equivalent fraction with a lowest common denominator of this? We multiply this first fraction by p plus 3 divided by p plus 3. The denominator here is missing a factor of p plus 3. This is the one factor we need in order to change our denominator into the LCD. For our second fraction we multiply by p minus 1 divided by p minus 1. And this denominator, p minus 1 is the missing factor we need in order to get the LCD. Now we multiply these two numerators together and these two denominators together this gives us our new first equivalent fraction. We do the same process for the second fraction to get this, these two denominators may look different but they really the same. We know the order of the factors don't matter because its multiplication. Now that the two fractions have like denominators, we can simply add the numerators together. We add the like terms. The p's and the constants. 1 p and 1 p would equal 2 p and positive 3 and negative 1 would equal positive 2. Now that we're here, we should ask ourselves, are we done? Well, we added two things in a numerator together, so we have a new numerator entirely. We want to see if we can factor it if possible, and it turns out we can. We can take out a 2, to have 2 times p plus 1. But this doesn't really help us. We can't cancel a factor of p plus 1 since another factor of p plus 1 does not appear in the denominator. So the answer is yes, we're done, and here's the addition of these two rational expressions. Now this is some algebra. So here's our guide, our steps that we could follow to add rational expressions together. First, we want to factor the denominators and find the LCD. Next, we multiply each fraction by the missing factors of the LCD to get equivalent fractions. Finally, we add the numerators together and then we check if we can simplify this by cancelling any factors. And again, don't make the mistake of canceling terms. We can't cancel these since this is addition in the numerator. We can only cancel factors. Let's try adding these two rational expressions together an see if we can get the correct answer. We're not going to do all of the steps at once instead we're going to break it down into three pieces let's start with the first one. What do you think would be the lowest common denominator for these two fractions? Write your answer here. We find the lowest common denominator by factoring each of these denominators first. The first denominator will have factors of x plus 2 times x minus 6, since factors of 12 that sum to negative 4 are positive 2 and negative 6. The factors for x squared minus 36 would be x minus 6 and x plus 6. This is just the difference of two perfect squares. We can see that both of the denominators share a common factor of x minus 6. So this is the factor they share, and we list it in the middle. The other factor of this denominator is x plus 2, and the other factor of this denominator is x plus 6. Finally, we just multiply all these factors together to get our lowest common denominator, right here. We've completed step 1 and we found the lowest common denominator for these two fractions. Now we're ready to make equivalent fractions for each of these. What do we need to multiply this fraction by and this fraction by to get our new equivalent fractions? You can write the factors in these boxes. Good luck.. We need multiply the first fraction by x plus 6 divided by x plus 6. We know that because this denominator is missing a factor of x plus 6. If we multiply the numerator and the denominator by x plus 6, we're multiplying by a form of 1, and we changed this denominator into our lowest common denominator. For the second fraction we need to multiply by x plus 2 divided by x plus 2. This denominator is missing our factor of x plus 2 to form the LCD. If you got these correct, excellent thinking. Now that we're changing each of these 2 fractions, I want you to multiply these numerators together and write your answer here. For the denominators, we don't want to multiply them out. We just want to list the factors. This is because we're going to add the numerators in the end. We'll refactor that if possible and see if we can cancel any factors in the numerator and denominator of our final answer. Six x plus 36, and five x plus ten, are our new numerators. Great work if you found those two. We know we're really just distributing the six to the x and the six. So six times x is six-x. And six times six is 36. For this new numerator, we're distributing the five times x, which is five-x. And 5 times 2 which is 10. So, 5x plus 10 is our new numerator. First we found the LCD and then we changed each fraction by multiplying by the missing factors of the LCD. Now that we've converted this fraction and this fraction into new fractions that have common denominators. What would the sum be? Write the numerator here and the denominator here. we would get 11X plus 46 divided by the factors x plus 2 times x minus 6 times X plus 6. Fantastic work if you just added these numerators together. When we add the numerators we just want to add the like terms, like 6X and 5X Which would equal 11x. Likewise we would add the constant terms. Positive 36 and positive 10 equal positive 46. So here's our numerator and here's our denominator. Now we formed a new numerator right here; we added these two together. So, we need to check one more time. Can we simplify this fractional expression further? What do you think? Yes or no? Well, the answer would be no. When we look at 11x and positive 46, we can think about the greatest common factor between them. That greatest common factor would just be 1. Because there's no other factor of 11x plus 46 in our denominator, we can't cancel this factor with anything down here. This is another reason why we want to leave the denominator in factored form. At the end, we should check to see if this is factorable and cancel any factors that appear in the numerator and denominator. But what if our sum, instead, was 11 x plus 22? What do you think our final answer would be this time? Now, I know this wasn't the sum for our last problem, but I want you to see if there's an extra step you need to do at the end. Sometimes you need to simplify further. Can you in this case? Write your answer here. It turns out we can. The numerator would be eleven and the denominator would be X minus six times X plus six. Great job, if you've figured that one out. When I look at this numerator and these two terms, I can see they share a common factor of eleven. If we factor eleven out of our numerator, we'll get eleven times X plus two. Now we can see this X plus two is a factor and the numerator. Add in the denominator, which means we can simplify. These factors cancel to 1, and we're left with 11 divided by x minus 6 times x plus 6. Alright, now you try one on your own. I want you to add these two rational expressions together and remember to check to see if you can simplify your numerator and your denominator in the end. Make sure your numerator is multiplied out in the end, and make sure the denominator is in factored form. Have fun and good luck. This was our final answer. Excellent work if you found it. We start by finding the lowest common denominator, which means that we have to factor this denominator and this one first. Factors of 24 that sum to positive 10 are positive 6 and positive 4, while the factors of negative 12 that sum to positive 1 are positive 4 and negative 3. This means that our lowest common denominator would be y plus 6 times y plus 4 times y minus 3. Next, we multiply each fraction by the missing factors of our lowest common denominator. For the first denominator, it's missing the factor y minus 3. So we multiply the numerator and denominator by y minus 3, since we're really just multiplying by 1. For the second fraction, we need to multiply by y plus 6 divided by y plus 6. When we multiply each of these fractions by a form of 1, we get two new equivalent fractions. We multiply these two numerators together, or these two binomials together, to get y squared minus 6y plus 9. And then here again, we multiply these two binomials together to get y squared plus 12y plus 36. We multiply these out, since we're adding our numerators in the end. The denominators, however, we can just leave in factored form since these won't change. When we add the like terms of our numerators together, we get 2y squared from 1y squared and 1y squared. We get positive 6y, from negative 6y and positive 12y. And we get 45 from positive 9 and positive 36. And finally, we want to check to see if this is factorable, to see if we can cancel a factor in the numerator and denominator. We find factors of 90 that sum to positive 6. When I look at the positive factors of 90, these are the factor pairs. None of these add to positive 6. So I know this numerator is not factorable. Since we cant factor this numerator, we actually have our final answer. None of these add to positive 6. For our third practice problem, I want to you to try to add these two rational expressions together. Write your answer here. This was the correct answer. Fantastic job if you found it. Now if you got stuck along the way, it might of been at this denominator that gave you trouble. Let's see how we can find our lowest common denominator first. This denominator factors to x plus 2 times x minus 1. And then this denominator is actually the difference of two perfect squares. So we can factor it as X plus 1 times X minus 1. We see the two denominators have a common factor of X minus 1, so we list that in the middle for our factor tree method. The other factor's on the outside and then we multiply all of them together to get our lowest common denominator. X plus 2 times X minus 1. Times x plus 1. Next we want to turn each of these fractions into an equivalent fraction with the lowest common denominator. This first denominator is missing the factor x plus 1. So we multiply the numerator and denominator by it. The second fraction is missing the factor x plus 2. For this numerator we're multiplying 2 binomials together and we get x squared minus x minus 2. For the second fraction we're[INAUDIBLE] this 3, the quantity x plus 2. So we have 3 times x which is 3 x and 3 times 2 which is 6. Now that we've added our numerators together we have a new numerator. And we should always ask ourselves can we factor this? If we can factor this then we'll be able to simplify another factor in the numerator and denominator. But in this case, this numerator can't be factored. There are no factor pairs of 4 that sum to positive 2. This is why we're finished and we can have this as our answer. To subtract this fraction, we're going to distribute this negative sign to every term in the numerator. We know subtraction is the same as adding the opposite. And in this case, we only had to change the sign of one term, the positive 3. If there were more terms in the numerator, we would want to change the sign or distribute the negative 1 to each of those terms. Now, we're in familiar territory. We know how to add two rational expressions with different denominators. First, we'll find the LCD, create equivalent fractions, and finally, add the numerators together and check to see if we can simplify. So, you give this one a shot. What would be the final answer? This would be our solution, great work if you found it. We want to start by finding the lowest common denominator, so we should factor each of these denominators. We factored this denominator to be m plus 1 times m minus 5. This denominator, we'll need to use factoring by grouping. You need to find factors of 30 that sum to negative 13. Those factors are negative 3 and negative 10. They multiply to give us positive 30, and they add or sum to give us negative 13. We use our factoring tree method to get this lowest common denominator. We multiply our first fraction by the missing factor of two m minus three, whereas we multiply our second fraction by the missing factor of m plus one. And remember, we're really just multiplying by a one here and a one here. We're changing these fractions into equivalent forms. We distribute m to 2m minus 3 to get the first numerator, 2m squared minus 3m. Next, we distribute the negative 3 to the m plus 1. We'll get negative 3m and negative 3. Now, we want to add the two numerators together and keep our denominator the same. The like terms in these numerators are negative 3m and negative 3m. So we have 2 m squared, minus 6 m, and minus 3. Finally we want to check to see if this is factor able. We want to find factors of -6, that's sum to -6. Well there are no factor pairs of -6 that sum to you -6. So we're finished. So really subtracting rational expressions is not that different from adding them. We just want to make sure we remember to distribute the negative sign. Okay, try this one on your own. Subtract these two rational expressions and write your numerator here and your denominator here. Good luck. To subtract the second rational expression we really want to add the opposite. We want to distribute our subtraction sign to each term in the numerator which gives us a negative 1. Now we factor each denominator and try to find the lowest common denominator between the two fractions. The lowest common denominator is x minus 1 times x minus 1 times x plus 1. We know this since these two denominators share a common factor of x minus 1. The other factor for this denominator is x minus 1. And the other factor for this denominator is x plus 1. We multiply each fraction by the missing factors of the lowest common denominator. For the first fraction, we distribute 6x to the quantity x plus 1. We'll get 6x squared plus 6x. For this second fraction, we'll have negative 1 times the quantity x minus 1. We really just changed these two signs. So we'll have negative x plus 1. Now that we have two fractions with common denominators We can add the numerators together. We just add the like terms. When we add the like terms of 6x and negative x together we'll get 6x squared plus 5x plus 1. Now remember, we have a new numerator here. And let's see if we can factor it. We want factors of positive 6 that's sum to 5. Well yes that would be 3 and 2. This would be the factored form if we use factoring by grouping. But notice that this doesn't help us out. None of these factors appears in our denominator. We can't simply any more. I final answer would be 6 x squared plus 5 x plus 1. Divided by the factors of this denominator. Try this third subtraction problem now. Be sure you distribute this negative sign to each term in our numerator. Then, you'll have an addition problem and you can proceed as usual. Good luck. You'll also want to get the most simplified answer. Multiply out your numerator and then leave your denominator in factored form. Here's our answer. Great algebra skills if you found that one out. First we distribute our negative sign to each term in our numerator. So we'll have plus negative two b plus five. Make sure you change that sign there. Next we find the lowest common denominator, which is b plus two, times b minus two, times b plus five. Next we multiply each fraction by a form of one. This denominator was missing b plus 5, and this denominator was missing b plus 2. Next we multiply these two numerators together, to get b squared plus 8b plus 15. For the second equivalent fraction, we'll multiply negative 2b plus 5, times b plus 2. This gives us this trinomial, and finally we add the like terms of each numerator together. B squared and negative 2b squared equals negative 1b squared. 8b and positive b equal 9b and 15 and 10 equal 25. So this is our final answer. We also know that this is our final answer because we can't factor this enumerator further. There are no factors of negative 25. That's sum to positive nine. I hope you've gained a lot of practice with adding and subtracting rational expressions. In this lesson, we are going to continue using the lowest common denominator to help us simplify expressions. The lowest common denominator or LCD has tremendous power. We're going to use it again to help us simplify complex fractions. A fraction like this one. I'll guide you through the questions you want to ask yourself to simplify a fraction like this. To get started, we want to find the lowest common denominator of all the internal fractions of our complex fraction. Complex fractions, like this one, have fractions either in the numerator or in the denominator, or in this case, both. So, let's start our path to try and simplify this crazy looking thing. What do you think is the LCD for the denominators x, 4, and 8. Write your answer here. To find the LCD of these three denominators, we want to find the highest power of each factor that appears in any denominator. We know four is already a factor of eight, so we really just want to find the greatest common denominator for x and eight. The only common factors for x and eight are one, so we'll have x times 1 times 8, which equals 8x, our lowest common denominator. Now that we know the LCD for this complex fraction, we can multiply the numerator and the denominator by the LCD. We want to make sure we multiply this entire numerator by 8x, and this entire denominator by 8x. We do this since we're really multiplying by a form of one. So what do you think would be the product of this multiplication? I want you to write the product for the numerator here and the product for the denominator here. Keep in mind you should have two terms for your numerator and two terms for your denominator. Good luck. This would be the numerator and this would be the denominator, fantastic algebra skills if you figure those two out. Now, I know you might have never seen this being distributed to a fraction. Lets see how we can do that. We'll distribute the 8x to each term in the numerator and to each term in the denominator. This pare is the easiest of the multiplications we'll have 6 times 8x, which is 48x, for the second one the x's will cancel. We will have an x in the numerator and an x in the denominator. So we'll be left with 3 times 8 which equals 24. If that seems a little off to you, think of 8x as 8x divided by 1. You know x divided by x equals 1. So we're left with 3 times 8 which equals 24. For this multiplication 8 divided by 4 equals 2. So we're left with x times 2 x, which equals 2 x squared. And finally, for the last one, 1 8th of 8x would just be 1 x. 8 divided by 8 equals 1, so we're left with 1 x. Now this is something we're familiar with again, it's just a rational expression. We don't have any fractions in the numerator and denominator. We just have a polynomial here and a polynomial here. So use your knowledge of simplifying rational expressions to figure out the simplified form. What do you think is our final answer? Our final answer is 24 divided by x. You've really got the hang of simplifying for finding this one out. To simplify this expression, we want to factor the numerator and denominator. 24 is the greatest common factor for these two terms, and x is the greatest common factor for these two terms. When we factor, we can see that we have a 2x plus 1 in our numerator and denominator. So these cancel to make 1. So, this crazy original expression turns into 24 divided by x. Pretty nice. Looking back at our work, we can simplify a complex fraction by following these steps. First we want to find the LCD of the internal fractions, each of these. Then we multiply our complex fraction by the LCD divided by the LCD. We can do this since this is really a form of 1. We'll change what this fraction looks like, but we won't change its value. Then we'll distribute the LCD to each term, like we did here, and then we'll simplify to get our final answer. Let's see if you can do the next one in a couple of steps. For this complex fraction, I want you to start by just finding the LCD. What do you think it is? The lowest common denominator for each of these fractions is k times r, or kr. Keep in mind that K is some unknown number and so is R. So the only factor that we're certain that they share is 1. So k times 1 is k and 1 x r is r. This means that the product of these factors must be the LCD. So our next step is to multiply by the LCD divided by the LCD, or really just a form of one. So you do this multiplication. What would be the new numerator by multiplying this by kr, and what would be our new denominator, by multiplying this by kr? Good luck. Well, we'd get 12r plus 3k for the numerator, and 12r minus 3k for the denominator. Nice algebraic skills if you got these two correct. If this gave you some trouble, that's totally okay. Let's see how we can distribute this kr to each of these terms. If we distribute kr to each of these terms, we can see that we'll have this complex fraction. Now we need to simplify the multiplication for each term. Some students are really great at doing it in their head from this step. Though, sometimes I think it's better to show this, so you can really see which factors are cancelling in a numerator and a denominator. For example, we can see that k divided by k equals 1 here, r divided by r equals 1 here, and we repeat that process in our denominator. So we're left with 12 times r, or 12r, plus 3 times k, or 3k. For the denominator, we're left with 12 times r minus 3 times k. Then, we should always ask ourselves if we can simplify our answer. I've rewritten it here so we can see it better. We don't want to make the mistake that this fraction equals 1. We have addition here, and subtraction here. Also, these are not opposite polynomials, so this fraction doesn't reduce to negative 1. The coefficient of r is positive 12 here, and positive 12 here. But, we can see that this term and this term share a common factor of 3. The same is true here. We factor a positive 3 from the numerator and from the denominator. This leaves us with 4r plus k divided by the quantity 4r minus k, our final fraction. After multiplying by the LCD over the LCD, we really want to check if we can simplify. Sometimes this isn't always our final answer. Let's try another problem. What do you think would be the LCD for this complex fraction? Write your answer here. The LCD would be x squared times x plus 2. Remember we want the highest power of any factor that appears in a denominator. So we know x is already a factor of x squared, so we should use x squared. And X plus two for our LCD. Another way to think about this, is to use our factor tree method to find the LCD of X squared and X plus two. We use X squared here, since we know X is already a factor of X squared. Now don't make the mistake of putting X as the common factor here. X plus two is one factor. Wgereas X squared has the factors of X and X. The only common factor for X squared and the quantity X plus two is one. This also makes sense because this X is a term inside this factor. So our LCD is X squared times one times the quantity X plus two. Try finishing this problem out. I want you to multiply by the LCD, divided by the LCD, and then simplify your answer and put it here. Here's our numerator and here's our denominator. Fantastic algebra skills if you got these two correct. This one was really tough, so don't worry if you didn't get it right on your first try or even at all. Let's see how we can multiply by the LCD and simplify. We know we're going to multiply by the LCD divided by the LCD. When we do that, we really just distribute this to each term in our complex fraction. This gives us this expression. Now, this is pretty hideous. So let's clean it up. We know x plus 2 divided by x plus 2 equals 1. So we're left with 3 times x squared for our first term. This next multiplication was a little tricky. We have x squared divided by x. We can only cancel 1x from this power and this denominator. This means we have to drop the squared power down to a 1. And we're left with 4 times 1x times x plus 2. I want to make sure I have it negative 4 times 1x. So I have negative 4x. Then I had times x plus 2 here. This denominator is a little bit more simple. These factors simplify to 1 and these factors also simplify to 1. So, we're left with 2 times x squared for the first term of our denominator and 1 times x plus 2 or just x plus 2 for the second term of our denominator. I need to multiply or distribute this negative 4x to the quantity x plus 2. This gives me a new numerator. For the denominator, I don't multiply. I really add, since we have addition between these two terms. Since there aren't any like terms here, I just list out each term, 2x squared plus x plus 2. And to finish out we just simply combine the like terms in our numerator. 3x squared minus 4x squared is negative x squared. So here's our final rational expression. Okay. For our third practice problem, try simplifying this complex fraction. Write your numerator here and your denominator here. 1 divided by 9axy is correct. You're becoming a pro at these complex fractions if you got this one correct. The lowest common denominator might have been tricky, so let's find that first. We look at the denominators of 3 a squared b, and ab. We know these two denominators share a common factor of a times b. The other factor for this denominator is 3a. And the other factor for this denominator is 1. We multiply them together to get 3 times a squared times b. And remember we want the highest power of any variable or factor that appears in our denominators, 3 is the highest number factor, a squared is the highest variable factor for a And 1b or just b is the highest for, well b. Next we multiply by the LCD divided by LCD a form of one. These two factors would cancel out, leaving us with 2xy in the numerator. Here we can cancel out 1a and 1b. This means we have to drop this power down by one. Leaving us with 3a times this expression. 3 times 6 is 18 and then we just list the product of the variables. Now you might be wondering why I listed this a first instead of on the end. Usually we list the product of the variables in alphabetical order but it's certainly okay to leave this a on the end. And finally we want to simplify our rational expression. These are the factors of the numerator. And these are the factors of the denominator. We can cancel the factors that equal 1, which leaves us with a 1 in the numerator and 9 times a times x times y, in our denominator. This is why it's important to remember that 2 divided by 2 equals 1. There's still a 1 in our numerator. We want to make sure that appears in our answer. We can't simplify this anymore, since 1 is the only factor in our numerator so we're completely done. Try simplifying this complex fraction. Write your numerator here, and your denominator here. Good luck. I'll also give you a caution. Here, we have m plus 5, and here we have m plus 2. Notice that this is not multiplication. So m plus 5 is 1 factor, and m plus 2 is another. N plus two divided by the quantity three M plus fifteen is correct. Nice work for getting either of these correct. We'll start by finding the lowest common denominator for these two fractions. We'll find the common factors for N plus five. And m plus two. Make sure that you don't put a single m here. They have a term of m, but they don't have a common factor of m. And it's because we have addition between each of these terms. Multiplying by the L-C-D divided by the L-C-D, we can see that the factors that m plus five cancel out. These equal one. Likewise, in the denominator of the complex fraction M plus 2 divided by m plus 2 equals 1. This leaves us with 3 times m plus 2 for our numerator. And 9 times m plus 5 for our denominator. We can simplify these numbers, since they're factors that appear in the numerator and denominator. 3 9ths reduces to 1 3rd. We just divide each number by 3. Finally we distribute our 3 to get n plus 2 divided by 3m plus 15, our final answer. Here's another complex fraction. Try simplifying it. A squared minus 2a minus 3 divided by the quantity, a squared plus a minus 1 is correct. I hope these are getting easier. We know the LCD must be a times a minus 1. Since these are the only factors that appear in our denominators. We multiply the fraction by the LCD divided by the LCD, so we really multiply each of these terms by the number a times a minus 1. For our first term the a is reduced to 1. So we're left with a plus 3 times a minus 1. For the second term the a minus 1s cancel, leaving us with negative 4 times a. And this is why you want to be really careful to pay attention to this sign. We have negative 4 a not positive 4 a, and in our denominator we're left with a times a which is a squared, and 1 times a minus 1. We add that as our second term in the denominator. If we multiply these two together we'll get a squared plus 2a minus 3. Our denominator just has the terms a squared plus 1 a minus 1 we combine our like terms to get negative 2a for our numerator. Now, we definitely want to try to see if we can simplify this more, but I know I can't. I can't find factors of negative 1 that sum to positive 1, so we're really done. The numerator can be factored, but again this doesn't help us out, since we can't cancel a factor that appears here with one that appears here. This is our final answer. Here's our last complex fraction. Try simplifying it. Three y plus two divided by y plus eight is correct. Great effort if you got this one correct. Here, the L-C-D is y plus two. These are the only factors that appear in the denominators inside of our complex fraction. We know we need to multiply by the L-C-D divided by the L-C-D. So we really just distribute this to each of our terms and our complex fraction. Next we simplify the common factors from a numerator and denominator. This leaves us with 1 times y plus 2 here, 2y here, 4 times y plus 2 in our denominator, and a negative 3y also in our denominator. We can clean up this fraction by adding our light terms here to get 3y plus 2. We can also distribute this 4 and our denominator. Giving us 4y plus 8 minus 3y. We add like terms one more time to get our final fraction. You're a pro. Way to go. We've used the LCD to add and subtract fractions and even simplify complex fractions. Let's use this LCD one last time to solve equations like this one. This is an example of an equation with a rational expressions. These two fractions in particular are the rational expressions. We have a polynomial denominator here x. And a polynomial in the denominator here, 2 x. Before we get started solving this equation, let's think about what values of x would not make this equation true. If x equaled one of these numbers, it wouldn't make the equation true. Which one is it? Well, we know that x cannot equal 0. If x equaled 0, then this first fraction would have a denominator of 0, and the second fraction would also have a denominator of 0. We know denominators can never equal 0 for fractions, they would be undefined. So, even when we attempt to solve this equation, if we were to get an answer of x equals 0, we would have to exclude it from our solution set. We know x can never be equal to 0. We know the lowest common denominator is helpful whenever we want to solve this type of equation. So in order to solve this equation we're actually going to use the LCD. We're going to multiply every term in the equation by the lowest common denominator to simplify the equation. So let's start by figuring out the LCD. What is it for this equation? When finding the LCD we want to look at the denominators of all of our fractions. So that would be x, 2 and 2x. Since x is a factor of 2x and 2 is a factor of 2x we really just want this as our LCD. We want to take the product of all of the different factors And their highest powers of any denominator. Great thinking if you got 2x. So if we did multiply each of these terms by 2 x what new equation would we get here? Keep in mind that when we multiply through by the LCD we're really going to clear each of these fractions. That's the goal. We want to get something that's more simple to work with. If we multiply each term by 2x, we'll get 4 minus 3x equals 7. Nice algebraic thinking if you got that one correct. To get the answer, we simply simplify the factors in the numerator and denominator. For this first term, the x's would cancel to equal 1. This would leave us with 2 times 2, which equals 4. For the second term, the factors of 2 would cancel it to leave us with negative 3x, here. And for our last fraction or term, we would simply have 7. Since this equation is linear, we can use our skills from before. We solve the equation by grouping the variable terms on one side, and the constant terms on the other. We subtract 4 from both sides first to get negative 3x equals positive 3. Then we divide both sides by negative 3 to get x is equal to negative 1. This is our answer, and for these types of problems we're going to write the answer as a solution set. So this would be the solution set to our original equation. Once we find our solution, we want to make sure we always check it against the excluded values. For this equation, we knew x cannot equal 0, so this solution set is okay, since x could equal negative 1. And like all of our other equations, we can check to make sure that we're right. We plug in a value of negative 1 for x here and here. When I simplify the equation, I'll have negative 3 and a half on the left and negative 3 and a half on the right. So yes, this is correct. Let's try another equation containing rational expressions. What equation would we get if we multiplied this through by the LCD? Write your answer in this box. We would get 5x plus 6 equals 6x squared. Great algebra work for getting that one correct. The LCD, or the lowest common denominator, is x squared here. We only need to look at these two denominators, and since x is already a factor of x squared, we use this as the LCD. Multiplying each term by the LCD, we would get 5x for the first term, 6 for the second term and 6x squared for this term. We get 5x here since we will have one more x in the numerator than we would in the denominator. This one power of x cancels leaving us with 5 times x, or 5x. Here, the x squared's reduced to 1, so we're left with positive 6. And here, we just multiply these two expressions together to get 6x squared. So we've changed this equation that had rational expressions to an equation that contains a quadratic, x squared. Since this equation is quadratic, we want to bring all the terms to one side of the equation, factor the expression, and then set each factor equal to zero. So I want you to try and rearrange this equation, so that way you can factor it. Then solve it just like you've done before. When you think you've the values of x, enter them here as a set, and be sure to separate the values by a comma. The correct answers were negative 2 3rds and positive 3 halves. Fantastic work if you found these two answers. Factoring is one of those important skills that will come up again and again, so let's make sure that we know how to do this. I'm going to subtract 5x from both sides and 6 from both sides. I perform this same operation on both sides and I'm just showing these two steps I want. This leaves me with 0 on the left and 6x squared minus 5x minus 6 on the right. I also know I want to subtract on both sides here since I want the x squared term to have a positive coefficient. It's generally easiest to factor when this term is positive. So, I've taken my equation and I've rewritten it up here to factor this part of the equation we need to find the factors of negative 36 that sum to negative 5. These numbers are negative 9 and positive 4, so we can rewrite our middle term and factor it by grouping. This gives us factors of 3x plus 2 and 2x minus 3. Now that the right-hand side of our equation is factored, we can use the zero product property and set each factor equal to 0. Solving for x in this equation will get x is equal to negative 2 3rds. And summing for x in this equation will get x is equal to 3 halves. The last thing we want to do for our solution set is to make sure we check the excluded values. We know for these denominators, x cannot equal 0 or else we would have fractions that would be undefined. Since both of these values are not 0, we can rest assured that this is our correct answer. Try solving this equation. Multiply through by the LCD, and then see if you need to solve a linear equation or a quadratic equation by factoring. Write your answer here as a set. Keep in mind that not every equation will have solutions. If ever we solve our equation and we get an exclued value, then we need to remove it from our solution set. So if there isn't a solution I want you to type in ns for no solution. Good luck on this one. Negative 3 is correct, nice equation solving if you got that one correct. The lowest common denominator for our fractions is 9x. We know x is already a factor of 3x, so really we just need to find the LCD for 9 and 3x. When we use our factor tree method we can see that we get a final product of 9x. And our first fraction, the x terms cancel to 1, leaving us with 9 times 1 or 9. For our 2nd fraction the factors of 9 canceled the 1 leaving us with -1 times x, or -x. And finally for our last fraction 9 x divided by 3 x equals 3. So we're left with 4 times 3 which equals 12. Solving this linear equation will get a access equal to -3. Remember, we just reverse the signs here, since negative x equals 3, so positive x would equal negative 3. For this original equation, x cannot equal 0. It's an excluded value. And since our answer was x equals negative 3, we're okay. We can keep this as our solution set. Try solving this equation. Write your answers as set here and remember to type ns if there's no solution. Also, keep in mind that the excluded value here is not x equals 0. There are other excluded values for these fractions. What do you think they are? Well, it turns out there's no solution for this equation, let's see why. We know each of these denominators cannot equal zero, so x cannot equal positive 3 and x cannot equal negative 3. Remember, we don't want these fractions to be undefined. This number would make this denominator equal to zero. And this number would also make this denominator equal zero as well. This last denominator as factors of x plus 3 and x minus 3. So really we've already have take in account of numbers that x can not be for it since we solved these two equations already. If we factor this last denominator we can see that this LCD would be x minus 3 times x plus 3. We know this since this is a factor of this denominator. And this is also a factor of this denominator. Next, we multiply each term by the LCD. We cancel the factors that appear in the numerators and in the denominators. We're left with 2 times x plus 3 for the first term. And negative 3 times x minus 3 for the second term. Our last term is just negative 12. Since these factors reduce to 1. This is a linear equation that we're familiar with. We simply want to distribute this 2 and this negative 3 first and then combine our like terms and solve for x. Positive 2 x and negative 3 x equals negative x. And positive 6 and positive 9 equals positive 15. Make sure you're careful on this distribution. We have negative 3 times negative 3, which equals positive 9. It's really easy to make that sort of mistake. I'm going to rewrite this equation up here. Then we subtract 15 from both sides to get negative x is equal to negative 3. If we multiply through by a negative 1, positive x would equal positive 3. But we want to be careful here. We know x equals 3 is an excluded value. It makes this denominator and this denominator equal to 0. So these fractions would be undefined. Since x equals 3 as an excluded value up here, we know that there's no solution. There's no real number that exists that can satisfy this equation. Try finding the solution set for this equation. And remember, if there is no solution type ns here. 2 is the correct solution set. Fantastic work if you figured that one out. We want to start out by finding the LCD for these three fractions. Since this is a quadratic trinomial, we should factor it first to determine the LCD. This denominator factors to x minus 3 times x minus 4. Since we have an equation, we can multiply each term by the same factor. This keeps our equation balanced. When we multiply through by the LCD, we'll get 1 times x minus 4, minus 4 times x minus 3, which equals x. We distribute the negative 4 to get negative 4 x and positive 12. Next we combine all like terms to get negative 3 x plus 8 equals x. To solve this part we want to get our variables on one side of the equation and our constants on the other. This is why we add positive 3 x to each side. And finally dividing both sides by 4 we'll get x is equal to 2. Our solution set. We know x cannot equal positive 3 and x cannot equal positive 4. These are excluded values. We check our solution set against these to be sure this is correct. Otherwise it, we would have no solution. Try solving this fourth equation. Write your answer as a set here, and remember to type NS if you think there's no solution. Good luck. Now the lowest common denominator might of been tricky here. You want to make sure that it's n times 6 minus 3n. This is one factor in these denominators and n is a completely different factor. So we want to multiply those two together to get our LCD. For the first term we'll have 5 times 6 minus 3 n. And for the second term we'll have plus 4 times n, or positive 4 n. The right side of our equation is simply 2 n squared. Since these factors reduce to one. If we distribute positive 5, and combine our like terms, we'll get 30 minus 11 n equals 2 n squared. Now that we're at this part we have a quadratic equation, since we have a 2 N squared. We want to set this equation equal to zero by moving or rearranging these two terms. If we move these terms to the right side of the equation we'll get zero is equal to 2 N squared, plus 11 minus 30. This is something that we can factor and solve. So here is our equation and, to factor it, we want to find the factors of negative 60 that's sum to positive 11. When we use factoring by grouping, we'll get 2n plus 15 as 1 factor. And n minus 2 as another. Finally, we set each factor equal to zero, and then solve the 2 remaining equations. N could equal negative 15/2, or n could equal positive 2. And here's where we want to be careful. We need to check for the excluded values for the original equation. We know n cannot equal zero, since this denominator would equal zero. And the fraction would be undefined. We also know that n cannot equal 2. If n was equal to 2 both of these denominators would be zero and these two fractions would be undefined. This means that this solution is not valid. We can only take this as our actual solution. So here's our solution set, negative 15 halves. Fantastic algebraic thinking for getting that one correct. Here's another rational expression. This time the right hand side is set equal to 0. What do you think would be the solution set for x? Write your answer here as a set, and type ns if you think there's no solution. Here are the correct answers negative 1. Great work if found that one. We start solving this equation by multiplying both sides by the LCD this leaves us with 2 times x minus 8 minus 6 times 2x minus 1 on the left hand side of the equation. On the right hand side we'll still have 0 since 0 times any factor would still be 0. Next we distribute and combine our like terms to get negative 10x. Minus 10 equals zero. We rewrite this sign up here, and then solve for x. We add 10 to both sides, and then we divide both sides by negative 10. This gives us our final value of negative 1. For the excluded values, we want to look at these 2 denominators to figure out what x cannot equal. We know x cannot equivalent half or this denominator here equals 0. Likewise we know x cannot equal positive 8 or this denominator would be 0 as well. Our final answer is not one of these excluded values. So here is our only solution, negative 1. Notice that there is another way to solve this equation. If we move this second fraction to the right side of the equation we would have one fraction equal to another. We would just add this to both sides of our equation. Next we would multiply by the LCD or simply cross-multiply to get this next equation. After distributing and solving for x, we would find x would be equal to negative 1. If you use this method, that's great. Here's the last equation we'll try together. What do you think the solution set is for it? Type NS if you think there's no solution, and good luck. Negative 7 5ths and 2 are the correct answers. Amazing work. You got this one correct. When we start solving this problem, we want them multiplied by the LCD which is x times x plus 1. It's the product of these two denominators. We cancel the factors that reduce to 1 and then we distribute the remaining factors here on x terms. So we'll have 5x times x plus 1 Plus 6 times x, which equals 14 times x plus 1. Next, we distribute the 5x and the 14 to get our new equation. I have a quadratic term here, so I know I need to factor. I'm going to move these terms to the left side, so that way I can set this equation, or this left hand side of my equation, equal to 0. We'll combine like terms first by adding 5x and 6x. To get 11x. Next we'll subtract these two terms from both sides of our equation. The 14 doesn't have a like term on this side of the equation, so I put it last. This gives us five x squared minus three x minus 14 which equals zero. Next we want to factor this quadratic by find the factors of negative 70 That sum to negative 3. These factors are negative 10 and positive 7. We use these 2 factors to rewrite our middle term, and factor by grouping. So this quadratic can be factored as 5x plus 7 times x minus 2. We want to make sure that we set it equal to zero. So we can set each factor equal to zero. And solve for x. We set this first factor equal to 0. And the second factor equal to 0. Doing so we can solve and get x equal to negative 7 5ths, and x is equal to positive 2. But we're not done yet. We want to make sure we check the excluded values to see if either of these are not part of the solution. Well, the only excluded values are x equals 0 and x equals negative 1. If x were 0 this fraction would be undefined. And if x is equal to negative one, this fraction would be undefined. So our two values of negative 7 fifths and positive 2 are correct. Let's review from our last lesson. I want you to try summing this equation for y. Negative 10 3rds is correct.We start by multiplying each set of our equation by 5 plus y, the common denominator. Another way to think about it would be cross multiplying 1 times 5 is 5 and at 3 times 5 plus y is 15 plus 3y. We subtract 15 from both sides and then divide by 3 to get y is equal to negative 10 thirds. So you know how to solve for a variable using numbers. First we multiplied those sides by the quantity 5 plus y, we distributed the positive 3 here, and then we subtracted 15 and divided by 3. But what if we had an equation like this one and we wanted to solve for y? Notice the setup of these two equations are nearly identical. It turns out that we can solve for y by following nearly the same exact steps here. Instead of using numbers, though, we'll have variables. First we'll multiply each side of our equations by x plus y. Then we'll distribute z to both of these terms, to get zx plus zy equals one x. When we're at this step, we want to isolate y. Remember we wanted to solve for y or this variable and get it by itself. So we should isolate this on one side of the equation by subtracting zx from both sides. We'll get zy is equal to x minus z times x. These are not like terms so we can't combine them. The variables are different. And finally to isolate y we divide both sides by z. This gives us with one y equal to x minus z times x all divided by z. This is pretty amazing, we actually solved an equation for a variable in terms of other variables. So, in this work we really multiplied by x plus y first Then we distributed the positive z to each of these terms. Next we subtracted zx from both sides of our equation to get the y alone on one side. And to solve for y, or to get one y, we divided by z, which gave us our final answer. See if you can look back at this work and this work, to draw comparisons between the two. They're not that much different. We're really just trying to get 1 variable solved in terms of others. When you're doing the comparison, think about z as being 3. And think about x as being 5. This is a skill that might come in handy with other courses. Especially when you're trying to solve for certain variables. Maybe you don't want to find this variable, z. Maybe you want to find x or y. These 2 equations are actually the same. They just look different. This equation and this equation are actually equivalent. They just look different in from. This one is solve for z, and this one is solve for y. If I knew the values of x and y, I could quickly compute the value of z. But, maybe, instead, I really want to find the value of y. If I know the values of x and z, I can quickly find the value of y by plugging into this equation. This could come in handy with something like a temperature conversion. This equation relates degree Celsius to Fahrenheit. So if I told you that the temperature was 32 degrees in Fahrenheit, then you could quickly plug that in to tell me that the Celsius would be, well, 0 since 32 minus 32 would equal 0. But what if I told you the temperature was 32 degrees Celsius. Would you be able to tell me the degrees Fahrenheit? You could plug in 32 into C and then use your equation solving skills to figure this out but I wouldn't want to do this work every single time for a new degree Celsius. I want an equation that just has F solve for. So let's figure that out together. I want you to use your knowledge of solving equations to solve for F here. Type your final answer in this box. Remember, the equation here should contain the variables C and F. And since you're solving for F, your equation should start with F equals. Good luck on this one. F would equal 9C divided by 5 plus 32. Nice algebra skills for figuring that one out. We start by multiplying both sides of our equation by 9. This will create a fraction. And keep in mind we don't multiply these 2 terms by this 9. This whole term is distributed to both of them. So we simplify or cancel the 9s here first. Next we distribute 5 to F and to negative 32. We add a 160 to both sides, to isolate 5 F. And finally we divide by the coefficient of F, which is 5 on both sides of our equation. We divide 5 into 9 C to get 9 C 5ths. And we divide 5 into a 160 to get positive 32. Here's our equation. Now there was a different way you could've gotten to the same result by dividing both sides here by 5, first. Then you would have just add the 32. I think that would've been a little bit quicker. Let's consider our first equation again with x, y and z. This time let's solve our equation for x. We can think about cross multiplying or by multiplying both sides by x plus y. We distribute the z to get zx plus zy equals 1x. And now here's where we might get stuck trying to solve for x. Notice that x is on different sides of the equation. We need to move all the x terms to one side of the equation, so that way we can isolate it on one side. Any term that doesn't contain x should be on the other side of the equation. So let's do some rearranging. What would be an equivalent equation for this one, out of these choices? Well, we want to get x on one side of the equation. So let's subtract x from both sides. I'll get negative x plus zx plus zy equals 0. Remember, I can't combine this negative x with either this term or this term since the variables are completely different. To isolate these two terms that have x, I subtract zy from both sides. This gives me negative x plus zx equals negative zy. Now, this equation doesn't quite match any of these. So there must be something else I can do. Well, let's multiply this equation through by a negative 1. If we multiply every term by a negative 1, we really change all of these signs. This will become positive, this will become negative and this will become positive. So x minus zx is equal to zy. Well, that would be this one here, x minus zx equal to zy. This equation has just been flipped over. This was the tough way to do it. Let me show you a quicker way. We know we want to get these x terms alone on one side of the equation. So if we just subtract zx from both sides, we get there a lot quicker. Zy is equal to x minus zx. This is where your algebra skills can come into play. If you think a little bit forward you can predict what you're going to get. Try and choose the simpler method. Having two x terms isolated on the right side of the equation is the same as having x terms isolated on the left side of the equation. This one just happens to be much easier. Now that we have this equation, let's think about what to do next. Remember, our goal here was to solve for x. So we have x on one side of the equation. In fact it's in two terms. So how can we isolate x from these two terms? If our variable appears in two terms, we need to factor in order to isolate it. Both of these terms share a factor of x, which means I'll be left with x times the quantity 1 minus z. A quick distribution let's me know that this step is correct. Finally, we divide both sides by the number 1 minus z to get our final answer. 1x, or just x, is equal to zy divided by 1 minus z. Here, we actually solve for x. So solving for a variable is very similar to solving for numbers. We want to isolate the variable on one side of the equation, and sometimes that might involve factoring. Then we just divide by the coefficient, or everything that's not x, to get x alone. I want you to try a problem very similar to the one we just did. Try solving this equation for t. Keep in mind that you may have to factor. First, get the t's isolated on 1 side of the equation, and then see if you need a factor, or just divide by a coefficient. Good luck. First we multiply by the LCD, rs on both sides of our equation. This gives us t on the left side and, and the quantity t plus r times r on the right side. Next we distribute the rt to these terms to get this equations. We subtract rt from both sides to get t minus rt equals r squared. Remember, we want to solve for t so let's get it on one side. I'm going to rewrite our equation up here and now we have to factor. We want to get one t out of these two terms. If we factor our t, we're left with t times 1 minus r equals r squared. Finally we divide by 1 minus r to get t is equal to r squared divided by 1 minus r. Fantastic work if you got this. Now I know this is pretty challenging so don't worry if you don't have the hang of it yet. Let's try working through a couple more and see if you pick it up. Try manipulating this equation to solve for r. R would equal a plus s divided by s minus a fantastic algebra skills for giving that one correct. If you stumble a bit then lets see how we do this, there was a factoring part to this so that might have been tricky first we multiply both sides by the LCD r, r minus 1 we distribute the s to get sr minus s is equal to ar plus a we also have to distribute the a here Now, I'm at this point. And this is where I need to think back for what I'm solving for. I'm solving for r. So let's get these r terms on 1 side of our equation. And these other variable terms here. So we'll have sr minus ar minus s equals a. We get this from subtracting ar from both sides of our equation. If we add s to both sides. We'll have the r terms on one side of the equation. And now we want to factor. We take r out from each of these terms, and then divide each side of this equation by s minus a. This gives us our final answer. And remember that these two equations are actually the same. A plus s in the numerator is the same as s plus a. Try solving this equation for t. Remember what you're doing about halfway through. Think about if you need to factor or rearrange terms to get t's on one side of the equation. Good luck. This would be the answer for t. Fantastic work if you found it. We start by multiplying both sides by the denominator, s plus t. This would give us 3s squared plus 3st on the left and 4rt on the right. We just had to distribute this 3s to each of these terms. Next we subtract 3st from both sides of the equation. This allows us to get nothing but t terms on 1 side. Now that we have terms of t on 1 side, and everything else on the other. We can factor a t out from these terms. We'll have t times the quantity, 4r minus 3s. We divide both sides of our equation by this quantity to get t alone. These reduce to 1, leaving us with t equals this expression. I hope you're starting to see some patterns when solving these equations. Here's our fifth problem. Try solving it for v. v Would equal w divided by at minus 1. Great effort for getting that one correct. When we multiplied both sides by the lowest common denominator, or vt, we can see that these two factors will cancel. We're left with avt equals v plus w. We subtract v from both sides to solve for v, or really to isolate it on one side of the equation. Now that we're here, we have to factor this V out. When we factor the V out, we'll have V times AT minus one, and then we can divide by this quantity to get one V alone. V would equal this expression. Keep in mind, this is simplifying the one. I hope you're becoming a pro at these. Try solving this expression for a. This will be our last practice problem for this section. Good luck and try your best. For a, we'll get this expression. Great work if you got that one correct. We can do this problem by cross multiplying. So, we'll have negative 7 times 2a minus 3, and 6 times 2a times b. Cross multiplying is really true, though, because we're multiplying both sides by the least common denominator, negative 42. It would be the product of these two numbers. We know negative 42 divided by 6 equals negative 7. So we're really left with a negative 7 in our numerator, and we multiply it by 2a minus 3. Something similar happens on the right, negative 42 divided by negative 7 is 6. So we're left with 12ab. Next we need to distribute this negative 7 to each of these terms. So we'll have negative 14a, plus 21 equals 12ab. Remember what we're doing here, we're solving for a, so let's get this a term over to the right side, so we have two a terms together. We add 14a to both sides to get this equation. These terms both share an a, which is what we are solving for. So we factor the a out, leaving us with 12b times 14. Finally, we divide both sides by this expression to solve for 1a. These two factors reduce to 1, leaving us with a equals 21 divided by 12b plus 14. Let's wrap up this unit on rational expressions by looking at variation. Variation is a concept about relating two or more amounts. For example, if you have an hourly wage at a job we can relate the number of hours you work to the amount of money you earn from that job. Let's say your current wage is $10 an hour and if you work 40 hours in a week, you can make $400. We get this simply by multiplying the number of hours we worked. By our current wage. And it turns out there's a unique relationship between the wage and our hours. So what do you think would happen if you worked more hours? Would you make more money, less money, or the same amount? You would make more money. If you worked 50 hours, you would end up making $500. This is an example of direct variation, since as one quantity increases, the number of hours, the amount of money we get also increases. In simple terms, the more you work, the more you get paid. Direct variation means that two amounts are related such that if one increases, the other increases. Or, if one decreases, the other decreases as well. This makes sense in terms of working for an hourly wage and earning money. If you work less hours, you earn less money. The second type of variation is inverse variation. If you work more hours, the amount of free time that you would have would decrease. Notice here, one quantity is increasing but the other one would be Decreasing. We could also have the relationship reversed, we could work less hours, which means we would have more free time. In the rest of this lesson we're going to use our knowledge of direct variation and inverse variation to solve some problems. But before we get there, let's see if you understand the difference between the two. For each pair of these items, I want you to determine if the relationship is direct,or if it's inverse. Really take some time to think about each one of these, and when you're ready put your choices in the appropriate spot. Good luck. For the first example, if we drive more miles in a rental car the cost will usually go up. Now I know most rental car companies have a flat fee but some also charge per mile and they might charge if you go over a certain number of miles. So in general, if the miles go up the cost also goes up. So that must be direct. The second example would be inverse let's say 2 people live together and rent is $400 this would mean each person pays $200 but if we increase the number of roommates let's say from 2 to 4 then people wouldn't pay $200 each they'd pay less. Now instead of paying $200 each person would just pay $100. So as one quantity increases, the other decreases, inverse. The second case is another example of inverse. As the speed of a vehicle increases, the time that we have to drive that vehicle decreases. And maybe you've never driven a car before. But you could still think about this if you were walking. If we walk slower or drive slower then that means our time would increase to get to our final destination. One quantity is increasing while the other is decreasing. So that's definitely an inverse relationship. This fourth example is an example of direct. If we don't drive for a while, then we can't cover as much distance. So as one decreases, the other would decrease. Likewise, if we drive for a long time then we can cover more ground so this would be direct. For this last example if we make more money then we can spend more money. So that will be a example of the direct. If our arrows point in the same direction then we know it is a direct relationship whereas if the arrows point in opposite directions we know it's an inverse variation. In our first example, you could work 40 hours and earn $400. Let's say you start a new job that pays a different hourly wage. Now you're going to work 35 hours and earn $630. At this new job, let's say you worked 35 hours and you earned $630. How much could you earn working 50 hours? Whenever we saw problems involving variation we want to set up a proportion. So let's make this really simple. If I worked one hour, I would earn $10 based on my original example. So if I work double that amount of time, I would get double the amount of money. I would earn $20. Notice that if my hours worked increased then my amount of money also increased. This is so that way these two fractions will be equal. And one of the biggest things we want to make sure of when solving variation problems is that we have one fraction involving hours another involving income. We always want to keep our units the same. Whenever we have direct variation, the first amount of one unit will be directly across from the first amount of the second unit. So when I'm filling in this proportion, 35 hours should go here for the amount of hours worked for one And $630 should go here for the income worked for 1, because if we work 35 hours, we earned $630. So you try solving this one. How much money could we earn if we worked 50 hours? Be sure you don't include the dollar sign in your answer. I already have that written for you. The answer is $900. Great work if you figured that one out. We know in our first case we work 35 hours and we earn $630. For the second case we're going to work 50 hours but we don't know how much money we're going to get. So we'll use x for that income two. Next we want to multiply both sides of our equation by the lowest common denominator or 50 times x. So we'll be left with 35 times x on the left and 630 times 50 on the right. Essentially when we do this we cross multiply. We'll have x time 35 here, and 50 times 630 here. Finally, we divide both sides by 35, and we get x is equal to 900. When you're problem solving, you want to make sense of this number in the end. What were we solving for? Well we were wondering how much we could make, so that means we made $900. I know I included the unit here for you, but make sure you do that in your own problem solving and throughout the rest of your work. It turns out we can always set up a proportion to solve direct and inverse variation problems. Let's try this one out. For this problem the area of a circle varies directly with the square of it's radius. A circle with a side length of 3 inches has an area of 28 and 278 thousandths inches squared. What is the area of circle with a radius of 4 and 1 tenth inches? Now this problem is very similar to the last one we just did. Except you need to include on more thing. We're not just varying directly, we're varying directly with the square of something. What do you think you're going to do? Try playing around with this one and I hope you'll get it. Good luck. Also you don't want to round while you solve the problem. When you find the final answer, round your answer to the nearest thousandth. And again, I've already included the unit here of inches squared, so just write in your area here. We would have 52 and 817 1000ths inches squared. This is our correct answer. Fantastic thinking if you got there. Now, I know we haven't seen a problem like this one yet, or that involves the square of a quantity, so don't worry if you struggled. Let's see how we can do it. Because the area varies directly, we want to make sure that we list the first quantities that cross from one another. And notice too that the area doesn't just vary directly with the radius, it varies directly with the square of the radius. So we have to square the first radius. And then, for our second area, it will also vary directly with the square of its radius. Now that we have our proportion set up, let's fill in each of the numbers in the appropriate place. This would be our first area and this would be the radius that goes with it. So we want to put 28 and 278 1000ths here, and 3 here. Next we have the second radius which we know is 4 and 1 10th. So that will go here, and then we'll use x for the area of 2. That's the area we're looking for in our question. First I'm going to square each of these numbers to get this fraction. Next we cross multiply to get this equation. And finally we divide both sides by 9 to get our final answer. We've seen a couple of cases of direct variation, so let's look at inverse variation. Earlier we determined that the speed of a vehicle and the driving time were inversely related. If we drive really fast, then we don't need as much time to get to our final destination. If a car takes 20 minutes to travel some distance at 45 miles per hour, how long would it take that same car to travel the same exact distance driving at 60 miles per hour? We want to be very careful though. We don't want to use this proportion. This is for direct variation. This proportion would say that if we drive faster, then it would take longer to get somewhere. But we know this is not true. We know if we drive faster, then our time spent driving decreases. So instead of doing this, we can flip this second fraction over. If we flip the second fraction over, we can see that our speed now would be decreasing. If we drive slower, then it should take longer amount of time to get there. This also fits with our notion of speed and time. If speed increases, time decreases. Likewise if speed decreases, as in this case, then we know that we should expect to drive longer. Time increases. For inverse variation, we always want to put the other quantity in the opposite position. We'll need to flip the fraction that varies inversely. So what do you think, how long would it take us to drive? It turns out that it would only take 15 minutes. Nice algebra skills if you got that one correct. We know in the first case, we're driving for 20 minutes at 45 miles per hour. So 20 minutes would be time 1, and 45 miles per hour would be rate 1. We're looking for how long it takes for the car to travel the same distance. So this must be x, our time 2. And for the second rate, we're traveling at 60 miles per hour, so we fill in this with 60. Then, we cross multiply to get 900 equals 60x. We divide both sides by 60 to get x is equal to 15, or 15 minutes. The key for these inverse variation problems is that one quantity will be in the numerator while the other will be in the denominator. We usually flip the second fraction to make that happen. Let's try another problem on inverse variation using light. The intensity of light varies inveresely as a square of the distance from the source. So think about if we shine the light unto a screen. This screen would have a light spot on it and this would be the intnsity of light on the screen. We measure this intensity on whats called a foot candle, so if a light source is 5 feet from a screen There will be an intensity of 2 foot candles knowing this let's find the intensity on the screen if this light source was moved to 20 feet away. Now you might never have heard of a foot candle before but just know that foot candle is a way that we can measure intensity. Look this up if you want to learn more about light and foot candles. Distance here is just measured in feet, so 5 feet would be a distance, as would 20 feet. So try to figure this problem out and remember that the intensity of light is varying inversely with the square of the distance. Think carefully about the proportion you need to setup and when you're ready put your answer here. You should have gotten one eighth of a foot candle. Fantastic work for figuring that one out. We want to start by setting up our proportion using inverse variation. We know the intensity of light varies inversely as the square of the distance. This means that for intensity one, the distance one needs to be squared in the denominator. We flip the second fraction. Now I think it's really easy to make a mistake when plugging in these amounts. So I would make a list of the amounts and then write in the numbers or variables that go with them. We know intensity one is two-foot candles, and that's at a distance of five feet away. So intensity one is two-foot candles, and the distance one is five feet. We're looking for the second intensity. We don't know it so we use x. And this intensity occurs at 20 feet from the light source. So we have 20 feet for our second distance. We can use this list to help us plug in the values to get this proportion. We'll leave two divided by x here, and then we'll have 400 divided by 25 here. We cross-multiply to get 50 equals 400 x, and then we divide both sides by 400. To get x is equal to 1 8th, 1 8th is this equivalent fraction. We simply divide each number by 50. We saw for an intensity of light so we want to make sure we put the correct unit. It was 1 8th foot candles. We've seen direct variation and we've seen inverse variation, but these two don't have to be separate. There are times when the quantities can vary jointly. In other words, we'll have more than just two amounts related to each other. An example of this would be simple interest that accrues over time. Simple interest is equal to the principal amount we start with times the interest rate. The amount of interest that accumulates in one year is dependent, or varies directly with these other two values. If the principal amount were to go up, our interest would also go up. Likewise, if we increase the interest rate, our interest would go up as well. So this is a case of joint variation. Because simple interest varies directly with both the principal amount and the interest rate, we could set up a proportion like this. The principal amount and the interest rate associated with our first interest would appear directly across from it. So if we had any five of these quantities, we could solve for the remaining one, or the one that's left out. Let's see if you can use this idea of joint variation to solve a different problem. This problem deals with mailing a package. The price for mailing a package varies directly with its length and its width. This should make sense, since the larger something is, the more money and work that it would take to ship it across the country or even the world. So if it costs $20 to ship a package that measures 4 feet and weighs 10 pounds. How much would it cost to mail a package that measures 7 and a half feet, and weighs 15 pounds? Write that price here and don't worry about putting your dollar sign. I have it written for you. The package would cost $56.25. Great work if you found that price. This price also makes sense, since our package weighs more and it's longer in length. So it should definitely cost more than $20 to ship. We want to start by setting up a proportion that has direct variation. The cost varies directly with the length. And the cost varies directly with the weight. The next thing that we want to do is make a list of the things we know. We know the first cost was $20.00, the length was four feet, and it measured 10 pounds. Next we fill in the proportion with the remaining pieces. The second cost, the second length, and the second weight of the package. We make a list of those amounts as well. We're looking for the cost of our package, so that's going to be x. The length of that package is seven and a half feet. And the weight of that package is 15 pounds. Now we're ready to fill in our proportion. Plugging in these amounts into our proportion, we get this equation. I'm going to clean up the right hand side of my equation first. Four times ten is 40. And 7.5 times 15 is 112.5. So I've written this cleaned up part over here. Next we cross multiply to get 2,250 equals 40x and finally we divide both sides by 40 to get our final answer. With joint variation, though, the variations do not both need to be direct. One quantity might have direct variation, while the other might have inverse variation. For example, if x and y had direct variation, they would both increase, or they would both decrease. And if z varied inversely with x, then if x increased, z would have to decrease. When setting up the proportion, this means that since x varies directly with y, they will be directly across from one another. But since x varies inversely with z, we'll see this z quantity in the denominator. We flip this fraction. So let's assume this is still true. X is varying directly with y, and inversely with z. If the value of x is 10 when y equals 5 and z equals 6. I want you to find the value of x when y is 7 and z is 1. As a hint, this is one case, this x could be 10, this y is 5, and this z is 6. So you try and fill in the other values and then solve for x. And keep in mind in the setup, we had direct variation with y, so this is directly across from each other Whereas we had inverse variation with c. This c is a denominator. Write your answer for x here. You can also think about we're really finding x too, this value. Good luck. it turns out the value of X would be 84 when Y is &amp; and Z is 1. Nice work if you figured that one out. We know the values for X1, Y1, and Z1 so we plug those in here. We are looking for the X value when Y is 7 and Z is 1, so we plug in 7 and 1 in these positions. We can think of these numbers as being the second case We're looking for x 2, which is x, and we know the second y value is 7, and the second z value is 1. We use these lists to make our substitution. We simplify this right hand side to get 5 42nds. Next we multiply both sides of the equation by the LCD, 42x. Essentially, this is the same as cross-multiplying. So we get 5x on the right and 420 on the left. We divide both sides by 5 to get x is equal to 84. Try solving this practice problem on variation. You'll want to decide which type of variation it is first, and then set up the correct proportion. Write your final answer here, and don't worry about the unit; I've already included it for you. A man that weighs 175 pounds should have 35 milligrams of the drug. Great solving if you figured that out. If the proportion gave you a little bit of trouble, let's see how we can set it up together. Because the amount of medicine varies directly with the person's weight, we want to set up this proportion, the amount of medicine or the dosage for the first case Would be directly across from the weight from the first case. 30 milligrams is prescribed for someone who weighs 150 pounds. So this would be the first numbers for our first case. We don't know how much of the drug should be prescribed for a man that weigh 175 pounds. So the amount of the drug, or the amount of medicine 2 is unknown, it's x. But the corresponding weight for that drug dosage is 175 pounds. So we put that here. Finally we cross multiply and then divide both sides by 150. This leaves us with x is equal to 35. Now I really think it's important to make sense of our reason through this answer. Should this be more or less than the 30 milligrams originally? Well we said the amount of medicine varied directly. So that means if the drug dosage increases, the weight increases as well. We know the weight increased from 150 pounds to 175 pounds. So it'd make sense that our drug increased from 30 milligrams to 35 milligrams. If anything, we can just be sure that the second amount is higher, or greater than, the first amount. Try this second practice problem out. What do you think would be the solution for a? Also be very careful when setting up your proportion. Think about which values are varying inversely and which values are varying directly. Good luck. And in this problem, a would equal 3. Way to go if you got that one correct. Since a varies inversely with b, we want to make sure that we put the b quantity in the denominator. But for c, a varies directly with it. So we want to put that straight across in the numerator. This is perhaps the trickiest part about setting up variation problems. And you want to make sure you get it right each time. Remember, with inverse relationships. They'll appear in opposite positions, whereas with direct relationships, the variables will appear directly across from one another. So in my first case, a is 12, b is three, and c is eight. So I plug in those values. In the second case, we don't know the value of a, so I leave that written as a in the denominator. But I do know that b2 is equal to six. And c2 is equal to 4. These are the values of b and c in our second case. Now that we have this equation, we multiply these two fractions together to get 48 divided by 12. We cross multiply to get 144 equals 48a, and finally we divide both sides by 48 to get a is equal to 3. Try this problem out. Here, x is going to vary directly with y and inversely with z. Set up your proportion, and then solve for the value of y when x is 6 and z is 4 based on this other information. For our third problem, y would be equal to 8. Great work for getting that one correct. You might have had trouble with the set up, so let's see how we can do that. We know x varies directly with y, so they should be directly across from each other in our proportion. But for z, x varies inversely, so z should appear in the denominator. I want to start by plugging in the values of my first case first, x1 is 5, y1 is 5, and z1 is 3. In my second case, I don't know this value of y. It's what we're looking for. So I'd be sure to list y2 as my variable. Or just y. The second value for x is 6, and the second value for z is positive 4. Now we have an equation we can solve with a rational expression. We multiply these two fractions together, to get 20 divided by 3y. Then we cross-multiply to get 15 y times 120. And finally we divide by 15 to get y is equal to 8. Again, I think the setup to this problem is probably the hardest. You want to make sure that when you're varying directly, things are across from one another. Whereas if things vary inversely, they're diagonally across from one another. Try this fourth problem out. Now, I know this looks really complicated. But it's just about a cylindrical tank. This cylindrical tank is going to hold gasoline in it. The number of gallons in this tank varies directly with the height and the square of this radius. See if you can set up the correct proportion to relate the number of gallons, the height, and the square of the radius. Use all this information in the problem to figure the new height of the gasoline level if these other conditions are true. Good luck. Since we rounded to the nearest 10th of a foot, our gasoline height, our level, would be 2 and 7 10ths of a foot. Amazing work if you found that one. We start setting up out proportion by looking at the number of gallons, the height, and the square of the radius. We know the number of gallons varies directly with the height of the gasoline level and the square of the radius. Since it varies directly with these two amounts, we want to make sure we list those both in the numerator. And the square part is really tricky. You want to make sure that you square this radius. Once we have this proportion we can plug in the values for each case and solve for the unknown. In one case the tank has a radius of five feet, so we plug in five here. It holds 4,700 gallons, here and has a height of eight feet. So the height one is eight. In the second case, we're looking for the height of the gasoline level so that will be H. At some unknown height, H, the radius will be four feet, so the second radius is four. And the number of gallons that the tank will hold will be 1000. So gallons 2 is 1000. Now, we want to solve this equation for h. We square the 5 and the 4 to get 25 divided by 16. Next, we multiply these 2 fractions together to get 200 in the numerator, and 16h in the denominator. We cross multiply to get this equation. And then, finally, we divide by the coefficient of x to get our final answer. We get a decimal for our answer and we want to round to the nearest tenth. Because the value next to the 6/10 is a 5 we round up. If this value was less then a 5 then we round down and keep our answer as 2 and 6/10th. But for 5 or greater we round up so we get 2 and 7/10. This is the level for our gasoline take that holds a thousand gallons and has a base rate of 4 feet. In this unit, we'll explore radicals and rational exponents. It's likely that you've seen radicals before, but before we get into all these symbols and different definitions, let's just look at some squares. We can think of a square root as the side length of one of these squares. This square has an area of 4, this square has an area of 25, And this square has an area of 81. Knowing each of these areas, what do you think would be the square root, or the side length of each of these squares? Write the side length for each of these sides here and the same for the other squares. Well, we square, or multiply the two side lengths together to get the area. So this first side length would be 2, since 2 times 2 equals 4. The second square would have a side length of 5, since 5 times 5 equals 25. And the last square would have a side length of 9, since 9 times 9 equals 81. To find the side length of each of these squares, we actually took the square root of each of the areas. We can rewrite 4 as 2 squared. So we have the square root of 2 squared. This square root undoes the square power, leaving us with just two. The same thing happens for the square root of 25. We rewrite 25 as 5 squared, and then we take the square root of 5 squared, which equals 5. And the same is true for this third case. We have the square root of 81, which gives us 9. This symbol is called a radical. And all three of these radicals are actually square roots. It's likely that you've seen these before, but you might not have known there's an index of two here. The index indicates the route we are taking since we don't always have to take a square root. We'll see other types of roots later but for now just know that all square roots have an index of two, but it's really rare that you'll ever see written. You'll usually just see it like this. This is a list of some perfect squares that you run into often. You want to make sure that your comfortable recognizing these perfect squaresm since they help us simplify radicals. Remember, this is the radical symbol and in this case, the index is at 2 so we have a square root. We don't list the 2 for square roots but we know it's there. I said we wouldn't always be working with square roots, sometimes we can work with a cube root. When we take a cube root, we're really trying to find triples of a factor that are underneath the radical sign. In other words, we need a factor raised to the 3rd power underneath here in order to remove it from the radical symbol since it's a cube root. We can think of cube roots as a side length of cube with a given volume. For example, if this cube has a volume of 8, you want to find the side lengths that multiply together three times to give us 8. So, what do you think are the side lengths for each of these cubes? Keep in mind that the side lengths of a cube are equal, and the volume can be found by multiplying the same number together three times. The first cube has a side length of 2, since 2 times 2 times 2 equals 8. The second cube has a side length of 5, since these three factors multiply together to give us 125. And finally, this last one has a side length of 7, since 7 cubed equals 343. To find the side link of a cube, we actually take a cube root of the volume. So the cube root of eight would be the cube root of two cube. We need this factor of two of third in order for us to take it out. Since this index is a three, we need to group the three factors to take out the two from the radical symbol. A cube root really just send us a third power. We can think of roots and powers and inverse operations of one another. Pretty neat, huh? We can apply the same concept for taking the cubed root of 125. We see that a factor of five appears three times underneath the radical, so we just have five. And for the cubed root of 343, we just have seven. Here is the list of some perfect cubes. These numbers are considered to be perfect cubes since we can take the cube root of them to get an integer. Like we saw before, 8 was the same thing as 2 cubed. So the cubed root of 8, or 2 cubed is just 2. You'll want to keep a list of these perfect squares and perfect cubes close by since they come up frequently. Make a list on a separate sheet of paper or use and index card but either way you want to be really comfortable with your perfect squares and your perfect cubes. We can also write each of these square roots and each of these cubed roots in another way. We can use a fractional exponent or a rational exponent to write them. Remember that the index here for these square roots is a 2. So using this index of 2 and this power of 1, we can rewrite the square root of 4 as 4 to the 1 half. The square root of 25 can be written as 25 to the 1 half. And the square root of 81 can be written as 81 to the 1 half. So notice that this fractional exponent really represents a radical, and in this case a square root. We can write the cube root of 8 as 8 to the 1 3rd, and we can rewrite the cubed root of 125 as 125 to the 1 3rd power. The same is true for 343. So, what does each part of the fractional exponent represent? Does the numerator represent a power, the index of the root, a square root, or a reciprocal? And what does the denominator represent? Is it a power, an index of the root, a square root, or a reciprocal? Use these same words for each of the answer choices over here, and then pick one for this blank, and one for this blank. Good luck. The numerator of our fractional exponents represents a power, since this one comes from a power that's inside the radical or 4 to the 1. The same is true for our cubed roots. Each of these is raised to the first power, so we see that one and each of the fractional exponents. And the denominator actually represents the index of the root. The 2 is the index of a square root, and a 3 is the index of a cubed root. It tells us what type of root we're taking. The denominators of the fractional powers on the left indicate that we're taking a square root. Whereas the denominators in the fractional powers on the right indicate that we're taking a cubed root. When we see a fractional exponent, we want to think about power divided by root. The numerator is the power of our base, and the denominator indicates the root we're taking, a square root here. For the second example, we'll still have a power of 1 here, and then 3 as the root, the cubed root. Let's see if you can put this knowledge of fractional exponents to use. What do you think would be the answers for each of these roots? Keep in mind what we just learned, power divided by root. When you think you're ready put your answers in each of these boxes. Good luck. The answers are 8, 4 and 16. Nice work if you got those three correct. Now, we haven't seen something like this third one before, so don't worry if they gave you trouble. For the first one, I'm going to have power divided by root. So, 64 to the 1 for my power, and I take a square root since the denominator is a 2. So here, I really have the square root of 64, which we know is 8. And if I think about rewriting this, I can see all the intermediate steps we can take to get there. We rewrite 64 as 8 squared and now, since we have a square root in a square, we can use power divided by root. We have 8 to the 2 divided by 2, which is really just 8 to the 1 or 8. Now, these steps here are not necessary in order to get to our final answer. If we understand that the square of 64 is 8, that's great. I just want to reinforce that we can use our same ideal of power divided by root to simplify. We use similar reasoning for the second problem. We know that we have power divided by root, so 64 to the 1 for our power, and 3 for our root, a cube root. We know the cube root of 64 is 4, and we can rewrite 64 as 4 cubed and use power divided by root to simplify. Again, this part isn't necessary if we know the cube root of 64 is 4. This is one of the ones on our list of perfect cubes. For this third one, we're going to have the cube root of 64 squared. This is our power of 2, and this is our root of 3. We know the cube root of 64 is simply 4. So we're going to have 4 squared. This gives us a final result of 16. Now, you might have done this problem differently. You might of squared the 64 first. We could have also written our power inside of the radical first, and then taken the cube root. If we square 64, we'll get 4,096. And it turns out that the cube root of 4,096 is still 16. So, in terms of doing a root first or an exponent first, it doesn't matter. Usually, it's easiest to take the root first since we can get a smaller number here, and then square it. This is much harder since I wouldn't really know the cube root of 4,096 off the top of my head. And, in fact, I definitely don't. In general, a fractional exponent represents a power devided by a root. X is the radicand of what's underneath the radical symbol. A is going to be the power of the radicand. So if the numerator are here, we'll see that as a power inside of our radical sign. And then b, is the index of the radical or it tells us which type of root we're taking. A square, a cube or maybe something else. So if we see something like x to the 3 5ths, we really know that's the 5th root of x cubed. Here's our power and here's our index. Power divided by root. For the rest of the unit you'll be entering in routes. Let's get familiar with how to enter these different types of roots using our awesome tool Math Quill. To get the square root symbol we simply want to type a backslash and then the letters sqrt for square route. When you type this you won't see anything quite yet, you'll just see your backslash and the letters. You'll need to hit space in order for the square root symbol to appear. You'll see this, and your cursor bar will be underneath the radical symbol for you to type in whatever is inside. And for this first one, you would want to type in a 2. But we haven't just seen square roots. We've also seen cube roots. For a cube root or the nth root, we simply want to type in a \ and then these letters. Then of course we'll need to hit the Space. This will create a radical sign with our cursor bar in the index position for the radical. Here our index is a 3, so we want to type the number 3 to get that same index. Your cursor will still be in the position of the index, so we need to hit the Right Arrow key once. To move it back down underneath the radical, the cursor bar should appear here now and were free to type in whatever expression is inside radical. In this case we would just type x. Now see few have the hang of it. Try entering these two expressions and using the keystrokes on the screen then try tackling these to challenge problems. This one combines fractions, exponents, and radicals. And be careful on this last one there's really a 4 for the index of this group. This would be the keystrokes to enter this third expression, and these would be the keystrokes to enter this last expression. We can start entering this expression by typing in a fraction bar, that's the forward slash. It'll create a spot for a numerator and a denominator. After we type in the numerator, we want to hit the right arrow key twice to move the cursor from the exponent position down to the denominator. Then, we enter in our denominator using what we know about the square root. After we enter this under this underneath our radical, our cursor will appear here and we need to hit our right arrow key twice to move back to the main line. Then, we just type in negative 4. For this last expression, we just want to be careful with the parentheses. If we start with an open parenthesis, another one is automatically created on the other side. So, notice that when I get to the 5, I don't need to type in another parenthesis, I just the right arrow key and the carrot key and a 2 for the exponent. If you got all of these correct, you're really becoming a Math Quill pro. Let's use our new knowledge of fractional exponents to express these powers as a group. So I want you to convert each of these to a Radical Form. You'll want to use your knowledge of MathQuill and the idea of power divided by root. Good luck. We know a fractional exponent represents power divided by root, so this first one will be the cube root of r squared, we have r squared here since the power is 2 and we take the third root since our denominator is 3. For our second example, we take the 3rd root of 4x, we don't need to write this exponent of 1 in here since anything raised to the 1st power is the same expression, 4x to the 1 really equals 4x. For this third one we also have power divided by root. So we take the third root of this expression raised to the 4th power. You might have distributed this 4th power to each of the factors inside of a radical. And you would wind up with this radical. Either one is correct. It turns out that we can simplify this radical but weren't getting into that yet. We're do that in the next lesson. The other way you could have written the answer is like this, you could have take the cube root of 5ab squared c and then raise that quantity to the 4th power. We can take the root first and then raise the result to the 4th power or we can raise this expression to the 4th power and then take the 3rd root. This is true because the exponent of 4 and the exponent of one third have the same priority in the order of operations. A root really represents a type of exponent so we could do either exponent first. So we've looked at radical form throughout this lesson. We know that this really represents a power divided by a root. We can also write radical form in exponential form using a fractional exponent. So lets work in the reverse direction this time. Lets go from radical form to the exponential form. Try expressing each of these radicals with one fractional exponent. Be sure you raise the entire radical to the exponent. Keep in mind that when you have something than just a variable and an exponent inside a radical, you'd erase this entire radical to the fractional exponent. Here we can also simplify further since the 4 m squared is the same thing as 2m raised to the second power. 2 squared is 4 and m squared is m squared. We're raising the power to a power so we really multiply these powers together to get 2m to the 2 3rds. These two should connect from what we know since. 2 m squared is 4 m squared, and then we have a root in our denominator, or a cube root. Take some time on these, and when you're ready, enter your answers here. For the first one we just have p to the 3 5ths, power divided by root or the index. For the second one we'll have the quantity of 3, 2 to the 4th raised to the 1, 6th. The power of this radican is really a 1, so we have our power of 1 divided by our index, our root, which is 6. For the third one we'll have the quantity 5x squared raised to the 1 3rd power. We're taking the cubed root of this expression, and again we don't use the 2 as a power because the square is not the power of the 5 as well. It's only the power of the x. We have this quantity raised to the 1, so there's our power and then the 3 or the cube for our root. And for out last one we have 25 x squared raised to the one third power. We have power divided by a root. You might have simplified this, which is great. We could have rewritten 25 x squared as the quantity 5x squared. Then, since we're raising a power to a power we can multiply 2 times 1 3rd. This would give us 5x raised to the 2 3rds, another acceptable answer. Great work if you got at least two of those correct. I know these were pretty tricky. In the first lesson, we are able to simplify radicals because they were perfect squares or perfect cubes. But not everything we come across is going to be so perfect. What about this square? If this square had area of two units squared, what do we think of the side length of the side link would be? Choose one of these answers for the side length, is this one of these numbers or it is something else? This side length, or this side, would have to be something else. We can't have negative side lengths, so this first three choices would not make sense. Zero times 0 equals 0, so that also wouldn't make sense, since that doesn't give us an area of 2. One time 1 equals 1, so that also would not give me an area of 2, so this one's out. We know 2 times 2 or 2, or 2 squared is 4. So this one won't work either. And 4 times 4, or 4 squared equals 16. So, this one's out as well. The answer is something else, lets see what it is. It turns out that that something else is the square root of 2. When we multiply the square root of 2 by the square root of 2, we get the number 2. We know this is true since we can rewrite this as the square root of 2 squared. We use our knowledge of fractional exponents to rewrite this radical as 2 to the 1 half. We're raising a power to a power so we multiply these exponents together to get 2 times 1 half, or 2 divided by 2. This leaves us with 2 to the 1, which is simply 2. Now, we're not so much interested in multiplication of radicals right now, we'll run that later. But what we are interested in is the square root 2. This is an irrational number. And the irrational number is a number that doesn't terminate. It means that whatever is after the decimal never ends. The square root of 2 is about 1.4, but that's just an approximation. This decimal actually has an infinite number of places following the decimal point, it goes on forever. So, when we think about irrational numbers, we're just thinking about numbers that can't be written as a fraction. It's not important to plug a number like the square root of 2 into your calculator since we really only get an approximation of that answer. Throughout the rest of this unit, we won't be working with these crazy decimals. Instead, we'll just write the radical symbol and the number. So even though something like the square root of 2 can't be simplified, some other square roots can. So let's figure out if we can simplify roots and how to do that. We'll start with this one. We're going to use the product rule to help us simplify this radical. The product rule allows us to breakup a radical into the multiplication of two separate radicals. So when we have two factors multiply together underneath the radical. We can take the square root of each of them and multiply that result together. For example for the square root of 100, we know this is really just 10. But we can find this answer another way. We know 100 is the same thing as 4 times 25. So we can break up this radical and take the square root of each of the factors. The square root of 4 is 2, and the square root of 25 is 5, which leaves us with 2 times 5, which is 10, our original answer. And these were perfect squares, so we were able to take out a factor in each case, the 2 and the 5. You'll notice that 75 is not a perfect square, but there is a perfect square as one of its factors. Use the product rule to break this up into 2 radicals, and then take the square root of one of them. Leave any numbers that are not perfect squares, underneath the radical. When you're ready, write your answer here. This one would have been 5 times the square root of 3. Great work if you figured that one out. We know 75 is the same thing as 25 times 3. We want to make sure that we split this up into factors where one of the factors is a perfect square. This allows us to use our product rule and then to take the square root of this one. So we use the product rule in this step, and then we take the square root of 25 which is just 5. We're left with 5 times the square root of 3, which is just equal to 5 root 3. And notice that we make another assumption. If we write a number in front of a radical sign, we assume there's multiplication in between them. So here's our answer. What about this one. Which of these choices, would be the correct simplification? This would simplify to 10 times the square root of 2, or 10 root 2. The key ideal is to remember that multiplication is between the numbers and the radical sign. We can rewrite the square root 50 as the square root of 25 times 2. Then we use our product rule to break this radical up into two separate radicals. We know the square root of 25 is 5, so we have 2 times 5 which is 10, times the square root of 2. We don't want to add these numbers together, since multiplication was really between the radicals and the numbers to begin with. So that's why the answer wasn't 7 root 2. It might be easy to think that way. But just remember what's actually going on between the numbers. Try simplifying each of these square roots. Here were the three answers. Great work if you got at least two of these correct. Lets see how we can simplify each one. The quickest way to simplify the square root of 80, is to rewrite 80 as 16 times 5. We take the square root of 16, which is 4, and then we leave the 5 inside of the radical, since we can't simplify it. It's not a perfect square. You might of thought to do this as well. You might of said 80 equals 8 times 10, and then you might of split 8 into 4 times 2 and 10 into 2 times 5. We know 2 times 2 equals 4 so we really have a group of two 4s. Because we have two 4s, and our index is a 2 since we're taking a square root. We can pull one 4 out in front of the radical. So we have 4 times the square root of 5. For 120, we split this number up into 12 times 10, and then 3 times 4 times 2 times 5. The only perfect square factor in this radical is the 4. So we take the square root of 4, which gives us 2. The other factors are not perfect squares. So they need to stay within the radical. So we have 3 times 2 which is 6. Times five which equals 30. For this last week and split of 180 into 10 times 18. We split up the 10 into 5 times 2 and the 18 into 2 times 9. Notice that we have a perfect square of 9 here, also we have a perfect square of 4. We use our product rule, to split up this one radical into the multiplication of three radicals. We know the square root of 4 is 2 and the square root of 9 equals 3. And finally, we multiply 3 times 2 which equals 6 which is multiplied by the square root of 5, since we can't simplify it. This was perhaps the longer way to do the problem. Notice that we have two smaller perfect squares here. Well if we multiply these together we would get 36. So we really know that 180 is the same thing as 5 times 36. So instead, if we rewrote 180 as 5 times 36, we could have 6 times the square root of 5, since the square root of 36 equals 6. We can get to this answer more quickly, by splitting up our original radicand into the largest product of a perfect square and another factor. By using the largest perfect square here, we get directly to the answer. Alright, let's see you try these. Try finding the square root of 98, 150, and the square root of 72. The square root of 98 equals 7 root 2, the square root of 150 equal 5 root 6. And the square root of 72 equals 6 root 2. Great work if you got each of these correct. You're really mastering your square roots. We can split up 98 into 2 times 49 and then take the square root of 49 which equals 7. The 2 states inside of the radical are the square root. Because we can't simplify it. We use a similar approach for the square root of 150. We rewrite 150 as 25 times 6. And take the square root of 25 to get 5 root 6. And finally, for the square root of 72, we rewrite 72 as 36 times 2. And then take the square root of 36. Which leaves us with 6 times the square root of 2 or 6 root 2. I hope you're starting to see some patterns with square roots. And, if anything, you can always start simplifying these even numbers by dividing by 2. I've shown you the quickest way to get to the final answers but there are, of course, some other ways you could have gotten there as well. Be sure to compare your work to these answers to see if you could have gotten to the answer more quickly. We've seen how we can use the product rule to simplify a radical by splitting it up into the multiplication of two different radicals. We can also use this product rule to multiply two radicals together, but note that we can only do that when the radicals have the same root. In this case, they're both square roots, so we can multiply them together. If we had two third roots or two fourth roots, then we could also multiply them together. This number, which is our index, just needs to match. So use our product rule here to simplify each of these multiplication problems. And don't worry about simplifying in the end, because you actually can't in these cases. Here are each of the answers. Great work if you figured those out. We want to make sure that when we multiply, we just multiply the numbers inside of the radical, and we leave the index alone. So we have the square root of 5 times the square root of 7, which equals the square root of 35. Here, we just multiply the radicands of 3 and 12 to get the cubed root of 36. Be sure you listed the 3 as the index for your radical. For the third one, we have the 5th root of 100, since 5 times 20 equals 100. And for the last one, we have the 4th root of 21, since 3 times 7 equals 21. We've simplified square roots and cube roots, so let's try some more higher order roots. When simplifying higher order roots, we want to look for a factor that has an exponent or power, equal to the index of the root. So this means that we need to find a factor of 40, that appears three times, or has a power of 3. If we have a 4th root, then we need to find a factor that appears four times. Or has the power of 4 in order to remove that factor from the radical. So you try simplifying each of these. Write your answer in each of these boxes and be sure to use the apropriate index for the roots. For the cube root of 40, we have 2 times this cube root of 5. For the fourth root of 48, we have 2 times the fourth root of 3, and for the fourth root of 64, we had 2 times the fourth root of 4. And finally, for our last answer, we'll have 5 times the cube root of 20. Fantastic work for getting at least of those correct. These were pretty tough. For the first one, we can rewrite 40 as eight times five. Eight is the same thing as two cube so now we have a perfect cube or a factor that appears three times within our radical. We can use the product rule to split this radical up into the product of two radicals. We know that a cubed root undoes a cubed power. So we're really left with just 2 here. This also goes in line with our thinking, a power divided by root. 3 divided 3 equals 1 so we just have 2 to the 1. We can't simplify the 5 so that stays inside of its cubed root and we have that multiplied on the end with our answer. 2 times the cube root of 5. For the fourth root of 48, we split up 48 into 16 times 3. We rewrite 16 as 2 to the 4th and then we can take the fourth root up to the fourth. The root undoes the fourth power. We leave the 3 inside of the fourth root since we don't have four factors of 3, we just have one of them. So our final answer is 2 times the fourth root of 3. We use a similar method for finding the fourth root of 64. We rewrite 64 as 16 times 4. Take the 4th root of 2 to the 4th which leaves us with 2 times the 4th root of 4. For our last one we split up 2,500 into 25 times 100, 25 equals 5 squared and 100 equals 5 times 20. We do this step so that way we can get three factors of 5 together. We know that the cube root of phi cubed is just 5. 20 is not a prefect cube since the factors of 20 are 2, 2, and 5. There's not three factors that repeat. This means 20 stays inside of our cubed root, and we are left with our final answer. 5 times the cube root of 20. Simplifying variables underneath a radical works the same way as it does for factors, or just numbers. We'll look at simplifying the cubed root of x to the fourth times y to the sixth. Keep in mind that these variables actually represent numbers, like x could equal 2 and y could be 3. Our rules for these won't change, we'll still apply the product rule if we can, and we can only remove factors if they repeat three times. For example, we can split this up into the cube root of x times x times x times x. These four xs are the same as x to the fourth. Similarly, our second radical will have the cube root of y to the sixth. Since our x variable repeats three times, we you can pull one of them out, we can also pull out one y from these three, and one y from these three. This x however is a little bit lonely, it doesn't have three of itself, so we leave it inside the cube root. So our final answer is x times y squared time the cube root of x. So in order to simplify any radical we want to take the radican and split it up into its factors. If a factor appears the same number of times as the index of the root, then that means we can pull one of it out. That was why we could pull out one x, one y and one y. We multiply all those factors together and leave any single or lonely factors inside of the radical. This will give us our final answer. So let's see if you have the hang of it. Try simplifying these two radicals and put your answers here. These are a little bit more difficult, so don't worry if you stumble. Just try your best as always. Here are our two answers. Great work if you found even one of those. For the first one, we want to list all the factors of our radicand. We know 2 times 2 times 3 equals 12. Then we have 3 x's multiplied together. And 2 y's multiplied together. We're taking the square root and the index is at 2 here. So we want to find factors that repeat twice. We have two 2s, two x's and two y's, so we can pull one 2 out, one x out and one y out. This 3 and this x are factors that need to stay underneath the square root symbol, and it's because they are not paired. This leaves us with our final answer, 2xy times the square root of 3x. For the second one, we want to find factors that repeat three times, since our index is a 3. We have three 3's and three c's, so we can pull out one 3 and one c from our radical. These factors don't appear in a triple, so we have to leave them inside of the cube root. We'll add 2a squared times c and our cube root. This gives us our final result. Keep in mind that this 3 is the index on the root, it's not the exponent of the c. So be careful when you're writing your expressions. There is a quicker way to think about our process though. When simplifying radicals that involve variables, we want to remember power divided by root. For example, if we wanted to simplify the square root of x to the fourth, we would do the power of the 4 divided by the root 2, so we would get x squared. We're dividing this power by our index of 2, since it's the square root. This should also make sense because x to the 4th can be rewritten as x squared times x squared. We have a repeated factor here so we can pull out x squared. We can use this same approach of power divided by root for higher order roots like cube roots, fourth roots and fifth roots. So how do you think we could simplify this radical? Write your answer here. The cube root of x to the 12th would equal x to the 4th. Nice work if you figured that one out. We use power divided by root again to get x to the 12 divided by 3. 12 is our power and 3 is our root, or the index. It tells us what type of root we are taking. This should also make sense as our answer since we can expand x to the 12th as x to the 4th times x to the 4th times x to the 4th. x to the 4th appears 3 times underneath our cube root, so that means we can pull one of its factors out. So we're left with just x to the 4th. In general it's easy to use power divided by root rather than to expand the factors of a variable. But not all powers are evenly divisible by a root. We know 3 doesn't divide evenly into 14. We could rewrite x to the 14th as x to the 12th times x squared. We use our product tool to split this up into two separate cube roots. And since we know that cube root of x to the 12 is equal to x to the 4th, this would be our final answer. An easier way to get to this more quickly is to use power divided by root and to look at the remainder. We know this radical can be written as x to the 14 divided by 3. So when I divide the power by the root, I get 14 divide 3, which equals 4 remainder 2. Notice that the 4 appears as the exponent of our factor outside of the radical, whereas the remainder 2, is the power inside of the radical. So, using this ideal of the remainder, I want you to see if you can simplify this radical. Use the idea of power divided by root to figure out what would be on the outside of the radical and what would stay on the inside. When you think you have it put your answer here. To solve this problem, we want to use power divided by root for each of our factors. So for x we'll have 7 divided by 3. For y we'll have 5 divided by 3. And for z we'll have 10 divided by 3. Since 7 divided by 3 is 2 remainder 1, we'll have x squared on the outside and x to the 1 on the inside of our cubed root. For y, we'll have 1y on the outside and we'll have y squared left on the inside. And finally for z, we'll have z cubed on the outside, and 1z on the inside of our cube root. This is our final result. We could have also completely expanded this radicand. Once we have all the factors listed out, we want to find the factors that appear three times. That means we can pull it out. Here's a group of three xs. And here's a group of three xs. So we can pull out an x and an x. We can also pull out one y, and we can pull out three zs. These other factors don't appear in a triple, so we leave them inside of our cube root. X, y squared, z. And finally, we just rewrite the front part of our radical to get x squared y z cubed times the cubed root of xy squared z. Let's wrap up this lesson with some practice. I want you to simplify each of these roots and write your answer in the corresponding box. You'll want to use your knowledge of simplifying numbers and variables. Also, pay particular attention to the type of root you're taking. In this last one, you're taking a fifth root. Here are our final answers. Great work if you got those correct. This cube root and this 5th root might have been tricky, so if you struggled with them, that's okay. For the first one, we split 32 into 2 times 16. The square root of 16 equals 4, and the square root of x squared is x, and the square root of y squared is y. This leaves us with a 2 in the radical, which gives us our final result. For the second one, we want to split up 75 into 3 times 25. The square root of 25 equals 5, and then we leave the 3 inside of the square root since it's not a perfect square. Next, we use our idea of power divided by root. We have a square root, so we want to take this power and divide it by 2, 3 divided by 2 equals 1 with a remainder of 1. So, one a will be on the outside, and one a will be on the inside. For b, we'll have 8 divided by 2 which is 4, so e to the 4. And finally, for c, we'll have c squared since c to the 4th divided by 2 equals c squared. This is our final result. For the next problem, we rewrite a as 2 cubed. We know that cube root of 2 cubed is just 2 since that this factor appears three times. Now we us power divided by route to simplify each of these variables. 5 divided by 3 is 1 remainder 2. For c, 4 divided by 3 equals 1 remainder 1. And for d, we have 6 divided by 3 which equals d squared, and no d's inside the radicals since the remainder is 0. And finally, for our last one, we can't take the 5th root of 36, since we don't have a factor that appears 5 times. Nothing simplifies. But for our variable factors, we can simplify 10 divided by 5 equals 2. So, we'll have w squared, with no w's inside our radical, since the remainder is 0. For x, we'll have 6 divided by 5 which equals 1 remained 1. And for y, we'll have 12 divided 5 which equals 2 remainder 2. Here's our final answer. When evaluating square roots or other even roots we can't take the root of a negative number. That's because there's no number that can multiply two times, or any even number of times, to have a negative sign. We know a negative times a negative equals a positive number, so any number of two negative signs would always be a positive. So we can't exactly simplify the square root of negative 1. We know it's not equal to negative 1, since negative 1 times negative 1 really equals positive 1. And, we also know that the square root of negative 1 does not equal positive 1 since 1 times 1 equals 1. There's no value in the real number system that gives us the square root of negative 1. We'll need something else for this. It turns out that we define it as i, an imaginary number. I allows us to take the square root of negative numbers. For example, if I wanted to take the square root of -4, I would split this radical up, into the square root of -1, and the square root of 4. We know that the square root of 4 is simply 2. And the square of negative 1 really equals i our imaginary number. So, we get the products of 2i. for the second one we have the square root of 3 times the square root of negative 1. This number really represents i. So, we replace the square root of negative 1 with i. We leave the product of the factor in front of the radical. So we'll have I times of the square root of three, our final result. And for our last one, we'll have the square root of negative one times the square root of 12. We can simplify the square root of 12 by breaking it up into the square root of four times the square root of three. We know the square root of negative one is really equal to I. So we write that here. And then we take the square root of 4 which is 2. We multiply these two together to get 2i times the square root of 3. In a lot of ways we treat i just like a variable. We list it after the product of any numerical factors but before the radical sign. Now that we've seen a couple of cases of simplifying negative radicals with i let's see if you have the hang of it. What do you think each of these radicals would equal? Simplify them using what you know about I, and what you know about simplifying numbers underneath the radical. Good luck. We'll have 5i, 3i root 2, 3i root 3 and 4i root 3. Great effort if you got at least one of those correct. For the first one we simply take the square root of 25 which is 5 and the square root of negative 1 which equals i. For our second one we'll split up negative 18 into 9 times 2. times the square root of negative 1. We know the square root of 9 equals 3, and the square root of 2 needs to stay as the square root of 2, since 2 can't be simplified. We've replaced the square root of negative 1, with i, leaving us with 3 times i root 2. We use similar thinking to get to this third one, we'll have 3i root 3. And finally, for this last radical, we'll break up the square root of negative 48 into 16 times 3 times the square root of negative 1. We know the square root of 16 equals 4, and the square root of 3 stays as the square root of 3, since this can't be simplified. We replace the square root of negative 1 with i and then multiply 4 and i to get 4i root 3. Our final answer. There are of course other ways to simplify this last expression this would be the quickest. We know that i equals the square root of negative 1. This must mean that if we square i then that means we would square the square root of negative 1. We know that this power and this square root undo one another. So we would just be left with negative 1. Knowing that i squared equals negative 1, wouldn't you think the square root of negative 4 times the square root of negative 9 would equal? Choose the best answer out of these. It turns out that this answer would be negative 6. Let's see why. You might have thought to multiply these together to get the square root of positive 36 which equals 6. But we know that's not true since 6 is a real number and these two are imaginary numbers. The product rule does not hold for imaginary numbers. It only holds for real numbers. This was our product rule, and before X and Y had to be greater than zero, that was so that we would leave these radicals for real numbers rather than real numbers. instead of multiplying these radicans together, let's simplify each one by using our imaginary number I. So we'll have 2 I here and 3 I for here. Multiplying, we will get 6 I squared... We can replace this i squared with its corresponding value negative 1. We substitute that in to get times negative 1 which equals negative 6, our answer. I turns out that this i has an interesting pattern to it. We can simply any power of i by following this pattern. First, we need to remember that i equals the square root of negative 1. This means if we square i, we also square the square root of negative 1. So i squared would equal negative 1. To find the value of i cubed, we multiply i squared by i. Since the value of i squared is negative 1, we simply have negative 1 times i, or negative i. So we know i cubed really simplifies to negative i. So let's use a similar approach to find i to the 4th. We'll split it up into two powers of i that we know, i squared and i squared. Since i squared equals negative 1, we have negative 1 twice. Negative 1 times negative 1 equals positive 1. So i to the 4th will just simplify to positive 1. Let's see if you can extend our pattern. What do you think i to the 5th, i to the 6th, i to the 7th, and i to the 8th would be? If you get the square root of negative 1, I want you to just enter i for your answer. And as a hint to get you started, you can rewrite i to the 5th as i to the 4th times i. Think about if you can replace any of these values. It turns out that i to the 5th equals i, i to the 6th equals negative 1, i to the 7th equals negative i, and i to the 8th equals positive 1. Fantastic pattern solving, if you found those. Now, I know these are pretty tough. So, it's okay if you stumbled. Let's see how to do it. For the first one, we have i to the 4th times i. We know i to the 4th already. That equals 1. So, we can replace i to the 4th with 1. This leaves us with 1 times i, which equals i. For i to the 6th, we can rewrite it as i to the 4th times i squared. We know i to the 4th equals positive 1 from before. And we know that i squared really equals negative 1. So, we can replace that here. We multiply these numbers together to give us negative 1. For i to the 7th, we break it down into i to the 4th times i cubed. i to the 4th equals 1, and we know i cubed is really equal to negative i. So, that's how we simplify i to the 7th to be negative i. And finally, for i to the 8th, we'll have i to the 4th times i to the 4th. Both of these equal 1. So, we'll have 1 times 1, which equals 1. So, I hope you're starting to see the pattern. We have i and then i squared equals negative 1, i cubed equals negative i, and i to the 4th equals positive 1. I to the 5th equals i, so we start back over. Then i to the sixth equals negative 1, i to the seventh equals negative i, and i to the eighth equals positive 1. Taking out all the simplification, it's more clear to see the pattern. We have i, negative 1, negative i, positive 1. I, negative 1, negative i, positive 1. So, based on our pattern, what do you think i to the 10th would be? Would it be i, negative 1, negative i, or positive 1? We know that for the pattern of i. It repeats after each fourth power. So for i to the tenth, we would go to the cycle twice. And then we would start over. We would have i, then negative 1. I to the tenth is really the same thing as i to the sixth and i squared. They all equal negative 1. We can think of this a lot like the arithemetic on a clock. A clock cycles every 12 hours, the hour hand passes all the numbers, and gets to 12 and then starts over. Well, that's similar to what's happening with i, so we'll start with i and then we'll have i squared I-cube, either the fourth, either the fifth, either the sixth, either the seventh, either the eighth, either the ninth, and finally either the tenth. This is how we know either the tenth is really equal to i squared, which equals negative 1. Our pattern repeats every four patterns of i We can always simplify powers of i since the pattern continues to repeat itself. To find any power of i we simply divide the power of i by four and look at the remainder. The remainder will either be 0, 1, 2, or 3 and will determine the power of i. For example i to the 12th, we would take the power of 12 and divide it by 4. We know 12 divided by 4 equals 3 with a remainder of 0. This remainder becomes the new power for i. So we know i to the 12th is really equivalent to i to the 0, and anything to the 0 power equals 1. This should also make sense since i to the 12th can be written as i to the 4th, times i to the 4th, times i to the 4th. This means we really have i to the fourth repeated a bunch of times, or really just the multiplication of positive 1. It's easiest to simplify any power of i by dividing the power by 4 and looking at the remainder, this will be our new power of i. Once we have our power of i, we look back to see what it would equal. In this case, we don't need to, since we have i to the 0, and anything raised to the zero power equals 1. We know our pattern repeats every 4. So if we worked backwards with our pattern. We know i to the 0 would equal positive 1. So this should definitely make sense with our pattern. So, if I wanted to simplify i to the 39th, I would do 39 divided by 4. We know this is 9 remainder 3. This is what I'm interested in. The remainder. So I know i to 39th is really equal i to the third power. We're going to cycle to this pattern of four. Nine times and then ended up with i cube. We know i cubed is really equal to negative i. So this power simplifies to negative i. If I want to simplify i to the 50th. I would divide 50 by 4 which is 12 remainder 2, so I know i to the 50th is really equal to i squared or negative 1. Now that we've seen how to simplify powers of i, I want you to try and simplify each of these. You want to to use the idea we just covered about remainders and maybe use this table as a reference. Good luck. Here are the four answers. Great work if you found those. We know what pattern of I repeats every fourth power, so we want to take this power of 21 and divide it by 4. Doing so we get 5 remainder 1. This means I to the 21st power is equivalent to I to the 21, which we know is really just I. For the second one we'll take the power of 11 and divide it by 4... Which is 2 remainder 3. So we know i to the 11th, is equivalent to i to the 3rd, which equals -i. Since i to the 48th is a multiple of 4, we end up on a power of i to the 4th, which is really just 1. When thinking about it with a remainder, we know 48 divided by 4 equals 12 remainder 0. i to the 48th is equal to i to the 0, which equals 1. And finally for i to the 66th, we divide the power by 4 to get 16 remainder 2. This means that we cycle through the patterns of i 16 times and then wind up with i squared, which is equal to negative 1. If this is still giving you trouble try repeating these values all the way up to i to the 11th. You'll start seeing the pattern repeat and hopefully you'll catch the hang of it. We've seen how to simplify radicals, so now let's try adding and subtracting them. We can use our knowledge of what we learned before to help us add radicals together. For example, to add polynomials together, we just added the like terms of x squared and x squared. We have three of these things called x squared, and two of these things called x squared. So if we add them all together, we'll have 5 of these things that we call x squared. In a similar way, we added 3 7ths and 2 7ths to equal 5 7ths. And most recently, we learned how to add rational expressions. If our denominators were alike, then we could add the numerators to get 5 divided by x plus 1. So based on what you know before, what do you think would be the sum of these two expressions? The first one be five times the square root of x, and the second one be thirteen times the forth root of five. Nice thinking if you got those two correct. The key to understanding these problems is that we can only add the radicals if the radicands are the same and if the indexes are the same. Here we have square roots and both of the roots have a radicand of x. So we have three square roots of x, and two square roots of x. So all together, we'll have five square roots of x. We're simply combining like terms just as we would with polynomials or with fractions. Here we combined the x squareds, and here we added together sevenths. So in the second example, we're really adding six fourth roots of 5, and seven four roots of five. So all together, we'll have 13 fourth roots of 5. The type of radical doesn't change in each case. We still have the square root of x in the first one and the 4 through the 5 in the second one. So we know when we add radicals together, you really add the like terms or the same type of radical. So what do you think about this one? What do you think the answer would be? Now I know its really tempting to think that the answer is seven but this would be a mistake. We know that the square root of five is really just a number. So we have seven times one number minus one times another number. So if we have seven of one number and we subtract one of that number. Then we'll six of that number left. This is why this answer is really six times the square root of five. If we think about factoring the square root of 5 from both of these terms, we would be left with the quantity of 7 minus 1 times the square root of 5, and when we subtract, we'll get 6 times root 5. Another way to think about this reasoning is with an object. If you thought the answer was seven, then consider this, if we had seven cakes and subtracted a cake we wouldn't be left with seven cakes we'd really be left with six cakes. This is sort of an analogy for what's going on here we have seven cakes at root 5's minus one cake or 1 root 5. This leaves us left with 6 root 5. Now that we've seen adding and subtracting radicals, I want you to try these four problems out. Keep in mind that we can only combine radicals that are alike. They need to have the same index and they need to have the same radical. When you think you know answers, put them on the boxes and if something can't be simplified, simply write in that expression as it is. Think carefully about each of these and good luck. Here are the four answers. Great work if you've had at least two of those. For the second one you might have written it as negative root 6 or negative 1 times root 6. Both are correct. For this third one we can't add the radicals together since the radicants are different. We do have the same index since we have a square root. But this radicand is a 2 and this one's a 3. So we leave this as is. Here's a little bit more work to make it more clear. We have 4 root 3 minus 2 root 3. So if I have four of these root 3s and I subtract 2 of these root 3s, I'm left with two of the root 3s. We see that if we factor out a root 3 from the first term and the second term. This would live us with the quantity 4 minus 2 time root 3. We simplify the number in front of our radical sign to get 2. Now you don't need to show this step in your problem solving but if it helps, you can definitely do it. Whenever I add and subtract radicals I just look at the numbers in front and then look at what I need to do with them. Should I add or subtract these? In this case I subtract, so I just have 4 minus 2, which is 2 of 3. This last problem was just like one we've seen before. We want to make sure that we have a 1 in front of this, a cube root of 3. So we're really subtracting 9 minus 1, which equals 8. We want to make sure that we keep our root on the end so we have 8 times the cubed root of 3. I hope your getting the hang of this. Let's try these three problems out. You want to add of subtract the like radicals, and then write your final answer in these boxes. Keep in mind, that in this first one, we can only combine the root 5s and the root 11s. Think carefully about these next two, and good luck. These are our 3 answers. Fantastic work if you've figured those out. For our first problem we want to combine the routes of 5. So we'll have 2 square roots of 5 minus 5 square roots of 5. When we subtract 2 minus 5 we'll get negative 3 groups of 5. For the roots of 11 we'll have 4 root 11 minus 1 root 11. Keep in mind that there's a 1 in front of this square root of 11. So, when we subtract 4 minus 1 we'll get positive 3 times root 11. This second one is really tricky. You want to pay attention to the index of the radicals and the radicands. Here the index is a 2. But here the index is a 3. This means that these 2 radicals are not like terms. We have a square root of 2 and a cubed root of 2. This means that we can't add the 2 terms together which means we just list them as a sum. It might have been easy to make the mistake of writing 10 root 2. Or 10 times the cubed root of 2. But again, the indexes are not the same. So these would not be correct. For our third one, we want to combine the 5th roots of x. The indexes are 5, all match. And the radicand are all x. So we have like terms. So I have 3 plus 5 plus 1 times the 5th root of x. This would make 9 times the 5th 3 of x and our answer. This positive 3 is not like terms with anything else so we just carry it on and add it to the sum in our final answer. Let's try another round of practice. What do think the solutions to each of these would be? Take your time. And think about whether or not you can add or subtract the radicals. Also you'll want to keep and eye out for the index. Here it's a 4. For this one, we'll have one square root of 5 plus one square root of 5. We simply add the coefficients in front of the radicals together, to get 2 square roots of 5 or 2 times the square root of 5. We do the second one in a similar way, to add 3 and 1 to get 4 times the square root of 2. Here, we're subtracting the same quantity from the original amount. So that would make 0. If you need a little bit more convincing on this one, keep in mind there's a 1 in front of each of the radicals, so we can rewrite this expression by factoring out a fourth root of x. We'll have 1 minus 1, which we know equals 0 and 0 times anything is 0. For the fourth one we subtract 1 from 3 to get 2 times the cube root of a times b. Here, are the indexes of 3 match and the radicands are same ab, this means we can actually subtract the two radicals. And finally for our last one, we have 1 root of 3 plus 1 root of 3 plus 1 root of 3. This gives us 3 roots of 3, or 3 times our square root of 3. I know these are pretty tricky, so great work if you got at east three of them correct. In all the cases before, we've been adding like radicals together. And in a couple of the cases, we couldn't even combine the radicals, because the radicands were different. Sometimes radicals will appear to be different, but they're actually alike. We can simplify these radicals to determine whether or not we can add or subtract them together. For example, we can split up the square root of 20 into 4 times 5. Then, we can split this radical up into two separate radicals, using our product rule. We do the same thing for 80 and for 500. Notice that when I split up 80, I split it up into the largest perfect square. And the same is true for 500. 100 is the largest perfect square that goes into 500. This allows me to simplify the radicals more quickly. Now that we have some perfect squares, we can simplify them. The square root of 4 equals 2, the square of 16 equals 4, and the square root of 100 equals 10. We multiply the remaining factors in front of our radical to get 16 root 5, 12 root 5, and negative 20 root 5. Notice how we were able to simplify each of these radicals to radicals that all have a square root of 5. Because these radicals are identical, we can add and subtract them. We'll have 16 plus 12 minus 20, which equals 8 times the square root of 5. This is why we learn how to simplify radicals first, because even though these radicals don't appear to be like, we can simplify them and then combine them. Let's see if you can add and subtract these radicals, by simplifying them first. What would be the solution for this one, and what would be the simplified form for this one? The first one simplifies to negative 4 times the square root of 2, and the second one simplifies to 27 times the cube root of 3. Nice work if you got both of these correct. Simplifying roots isn't always the easiest, so let's see how we can do it. We can split up the root of 8 into the root of 4 times 2. We can also split up the root of 50 into the root of 25 times 2, and the root of 200 into the root of 100 times 2. This gives us perfect squares, which allows us to take square roots in our next line. Now that we're here, we can take the square root of 4, which equals 2, the square root of 25, which equals 5, and the square root of 100 which equals 10. We multiply the numbers in front of our radicals, to get 6 root 2, minus 30 root 2, plus 20 root 2. This leaves us with 6 minus 30 plus 20 times the square root of 2. When we subtract and add these numbers together, we'll get negative 4 times the square root of 2, our final answer. For our second problem we want to break up these two numbers into perfect cubes. I know 81 is the same thing as 9 times 9 which is the same thing as 3 times 3, times 3, times 3. I rewrite 81 using 3 cubed times 3. We do this since we know if we have a factor that appears three times we can take it outside of the cubed root. So I used my product rule to split up this radical into two pieces, and then we take the cube root of 3 cubed, which just equals 3. For our second radical, we split it up into the cube root of 8, times the cube root of 3. Notice that I've rewritten 8 as 2 to the 3rd power. We do this so that we can take the cube root of 2 cubed, which gives us 2. We multiply 7 times 3, to get 21, and we multiply 3 times 2 to get 6. Now we have two radicals that have a matching index and a matching radicand. So this means we can add them together. We'll have 27 times the cube root of three. We can use this same approach to simplify radicals that contain variables. We'll want to simplify these numbers first and pull anything out, or any factors out that we can. Remember since we have square roots here, we can only pull out factors that appear twice. Once we have like radicals, we can add them together. So what do you think for this one, what would be the answer? 60 times the square root of 3y is correct. That's amazing if you figured this one out, I know it was tough. Now there are a lot of ways to simplify this radical, I'm going to show you the quickest way. We start by splitting 108 into 36 times 3, 36 is the largest perfect square that goes into 108. First 75 we'll split it up into 25 times 3. Now we can apply the product rule and split up this radical into two separate radicals. The square root of 36 times the square root of 3y. We do the same thing for this radical. This allows us to take the square root of 36 which is 6. and the square root of 25, which equals 5. We know 5 times 6 equals 30, and 6 times 5 also equals 30. We have two like radicals, since they're both the square root of 3y, and we add 30 and 30 to get our final answer, 60 times the square root of 3y. If you had trouble with the last one, then try these two out. And if you got the last one correct, then it's time to show off. What would be the answer to these two problems? Here are the two solutions. Great work if you found both of those. First, we split up each of these numbers into two factors. We want to make sure that one of the factors is the largest square number that divides into it. For the first one, we know the square root of 16 equals 4, and then we're left with multiplying by the square root of 3y. We take the square root of 4 to you get 2 times the square root of 3y. And we take the square root of 9 to get 3 times the square root of y. Be sure you keep the signs the same as you work. Now we have like terms, since each one has a square root of 3y. We add 4 and 2, and subtract 3 to get 3 times the square root of 3y. For the second problem, we start by splitting up 8 into 4 times 2. And we split up 32 into 16 times 2. For our numbers, we take the square root of 4 which equals 2. And this 2 stays inside of our square root since it doesn't appear twice as a factor. For the variables, we want to remember power divided by root. We take the power of 2 and divide it by 2 to get 1. This means x to the 1 appears outside of our radical. For y, we'll do 3 divided by 2 because our index is a 2 here. We know 3 divided by an index of 2 equals 1 remainder 1. This means one y comes out, and one y stays in. We saw this before when we're simplifying roots earlier. We used power divided by root, and this number indicates the power outside of the radical where the remainder indicates the power inside the radical. For our second radical, we take the square root of 16, which equals 4. The 2 stays inside of the square root and now we need to simplify y to the 3rd power. We use power divided by root, so 3 divided by 2 equals 1 remainder 1. So, we have one y on the outside and one y on the inside. We multiply the numbers together infront of each radical to get 6xy times square root of 2y minus 8xy times the square root of 2y. Now, we subtract these two radicals. We use 6xy minus 8xy to get negative 2xy times the square root of 2y, our final result. Keep in mind that there are two reasons why we could subtract here. We subtracted because the radicals were alike and we subtracted because these polynomials were like terms. We're really packing on the algebra now. We can put all of our knowledge together about radicals, factors, variables and even exponents to simplify something like this. Try simplifying each of these cube roots and then see if you can subtract the radicals. Be sure that if you pull out any factor, you multiply it by what's out in front. This one's pretty tough so take your time on it and feel free to play around with the math. Good luck. Our simplified answer is 5x cubed y cubed times the cube root of 2x squared y. Now that's pretty amazing if you got it right on your first try. If you stumbled a little bit, that's definitely okay, see if you can find your first mistake in the solution video. Then pause it to see if you can work toward this answer. We start by simplifying the cube root of 54 and the cube root of 16. We want to split this up into 27 times 2. This allows us to take the cube root of 27, which we know is 3. The same is true for 16. We split it up into 8 times 2, so we can take the cube root of 8. So for this first radical, we know the cube root of 27 equals 3. This 2 stays inside of the radical, since we don't have the 2 repeated 3 times. Now we can use power divided by root to simplify our variables. For x, we'll have 8 divided by 3, which equals 2 remainder 2. This means we'll have x squared on the outside of our radical, And x squared on the inside of a radical for the variable y we'll have 10 divided by 3 which equals 3 remainder 1. This means we'll have y cubed on the outside of a radical and 1 y or just y on the inside of a radical for the second radical we want to take the cubed root of 8 which equals 2. This to just stays inside the radical. For the variable x we use power divided by root, this gives us one remainder two. So will have one x outside of a radical and x squared inside of a radical. For y will have two remainder one so y squared on the outside And Y to the 1 on the inside. We multiply these numbers together to get 9 x cubed, y cubed over here we multiply them as well. We'll have 4 x to the third and y cubed. Notice that this term and this term has X cubed Y cubed times the cube root of 2x squared y. This means that they are like. So really we're just going to do 9 minus 4 and then multiply it by the trailing variables and radical. 9 minus 4 equals 5, so this is our final result. Let's wrap up this lesson by looking at adding and subtracting complex numbers. Any number that is the sum of a real number and an imaginary number is an example of a complex number. Complex numbers are in the form a plus bi or a minus bi. A and b are any real numbers and the second term is an imaginary number. It's imaginary because it has i or the square root of negative 1. Instead of writing the square root of negative 1 all the time, we usually just write i. So if we want to add or subtract any complex numbers together, we treat i just like a radical. We can combine any terms that both contain an i, since they both have a square root of negative 1. So what do you think these would be. If we added this complex number to this complex number, what would be the answer? And if we subtracted this complex number from this one, what would be the result? Keep in mind that you really need to just combine like terms. You're also need to remember what to do when subtracting a quantity. Good luck on this one. Here the solution is 8 plus 7i, and here the solution is 3 plus 7i. Great work if you figured those two out. We're really adding these two complex numbers together, so we can drop the parentheses. Next, I want to combine my real parts and my imaginary parts. I know addition is commutative, so I can rewrite this line as 2 plus 6 plus 3i plus 4i, 2 plus 6 equals 8 And 3i plus 4i equals 7i. Remember I represents the square root of negative 1. So we have 3 square roots of negative 1 and 4 square roots of negative 1. That gives us a total of 7 square roots of negative 1 or just 7i. When we subtract a complex number, we want to distribute this negative 1 to each of the terms. So we'll have negative 3 plus 2i. Then we combine the real parts of 6 and negative 3 and combine the imaginary parts of 5i and 2i. This gives us a total of 3 plus 7i. Our final result. What about these two problems? What would be the sum here and what would be the difference here. For the first one we'll get 1 plus 11i, and for the second one we'll get 3 plus 5i. Great effort if you found those two answers. For the sum we can drop the parentheses since we're not multiplying anything. Then we just add the real numbers together to get 4 minus 3 which equals 1. For the imaginary numbers we have 6i and 5i, and that sums to 11i. Don't make the mistake of adding these two together to get 12i. Remember this i represents the square root of negative 1 so these are not like terms. This is a real number and this is an imaginary number. When we subtract this complex number we want to distribute this negative 1 to each term this means positive 4 becomes negative 4 and negative 2i becomes positive 2i. Now, we're ready to add our real numbers together and our imaginary numbers together. We'll have 7 minus 4, which equals 3, and 3i plus 2i, which equals 5i. This gives us our final result of 3 plus 5i. Well done. We learn how to multiply radicals using the product rule. Whenever we have the same index, we can simply multiply the radicals together. We can't multiply square roots and cube roots together but we could multiply fourth roots and fourth roots together since the indexes would match. Lets dive deeper into multiplying radicals and see if you can get some of these correct. See if you can multiply each pair of roots here together and then simplify the answer if possible. Try your best on these. Here are the correct answers. Great work if you got those correct. For the first one we simply multiply the radicants together to get the square root of 25. We know the square root of 25 equals 5. For the second one we really have 5 times 5, since the square root of 25 equals 5. We know 5 times 5 equals 25, our final answer. Another way to do this problem would be to multiply these two radicants together to get 625. So really we're taking the square root of 625 or 25 squared. Notice that whenever you multiply a radical by itself, you just get whatever was underneath it in the first place, just 25. Now this is only true for square roots, it won't be true for high order roots. To start multiplying the third one, we want to multiply the numbers on the outside together first. So we'll have 5 times 5 on the outside and then the square root of 25 here. We know 5 times 5 equals 25 and we know the square root of 25 equals 5. We multiply one last time to get 125. This is the simplification for the fourth one, and we really just want to break down the 50 into a perfect square. We take the square root of 25, which equals 5, and then multiply these two numbers together to get 25 root 2. And finally for our last one, 2 times 12 equals 24. And then we multiply the cube roots together to get the cube root of 24, that's this 12 times 2. We split up 24 into 8 times 3 so that we can take the cube root of 8, which equals 2. We multiply one last time to get 48 times the cube root of 3. Nice effort on these problems. Let's try some more practice with the multiplying radicals. What do you think would be the result of these products? For the second one, you'll want to use the distributed property and multiply each term by 3 square root of 3. Write your final answers in the corresponding boxes, good luck. For our first problem, we'll have 24x squared and for our second problem we'll have 9 plus 3 times the square root of 6. Nice thinking for getting those two correct. For the first problem, we just want to multiply the radicands together. So we'll have 4 times 16, which equals 64, and x squared times x squared, which equals x to the 4th. The square root of 64 is 8 and the square root of x to the 4th is x squared. We want to make sure that we multiply these factors that come out by 3. So we'll have 24x squared for our final result. For the second problem we distribute or multiply 3 root 3 times each of each these terms. Here we'll multiply root 3 times root 3 to get 3. We still have a 3 in front of these two radicals, so we'll have 3 times 3, which equals 9. Then for the second term, we'll have 3 root 3, times root 2. We just multiply these two radicals together to get 3 root 6. There's a 1 in front of the square root of 2, which is what we multiplied the 3 by. 3 times 1 equals 3 and 3 times 2 is equal to 6. This one's underneath the root. We can't combine the 9 and the 3 root 6, since 9 doesn't have a square root of 6 on the end. These aren't like terms. So this is our final result. Try multiplying these radicals out. Keep in mind that you have a cubed root here. Now when we multiply it we don't change the index of the root. We just multiply by what's underneath. Then when we simplify, since we have a cubed root we only want to take out factors that appear three times underneath the radical. Use your knowledge of power divided by roots. And your knowledge of factors, to get to the simplified form. These are the correct answers, great work if you found those two. For the first one, we want to start by multiplying our numbers together, and our variables together. We'll have 20 times 2, which equals 40, x to the 5th times x squared which x to the 7th. The y squared times y to the 4th, which y to the 6th. Since under a cube root, we want to find factors that appear three times. We can split up 40 into 8 times 5 since the cubed root of 8 equals 2. We have to leave the 5 inside of our cube root since this factor doesn't appear 3 times. It's not a perfect cube. Finally we deal with our variables by using power divided by root. 7 divided by 3 is 2 remainder 1, so we'll have x squared on the outside and x to the 1 on the inside. The cubed root of y to the 6th, is just 6 divided by 3, so y squared comes out. This gives us our final result, I hope you found it. For the second one, we want to start by distributing 3 root 2 to each of these radical terms. Pull out 3 root 2 times root 18, and 3 root 2 times negative 2 root 6. For the first term we'll multiply these two radicals together to get 3 root 36. For our second term, we'll multiply 3 times negative 2, which equals negative 6, and root 2 times 6, which equals root 12. The square root of 36 equals 6, and then we can break down the square root of 12 into the square root of 4 times 3. We simplify further, by multiplying 3 times 6, which is 18, and then we take the square root of 4, which is 2. We multiply these two numbers together to give us our final answer, 18 minus 12 root 3. Nice work if you found that one as well. We've seen distribution with one radical, let's try multiply two binomials together. These binomials contain a radical in each one. This one has the square root of 2 and this one has the square root of 7. When we multiply two binomials, we want to distribute each term in the first parentheses to each term in the second parentheses. So we'll multiply 3 times 2 and 3 times root 7, and then we'll multiply root 2 times 2, and root 2 times root 7. We want to simplify any radicals that we can and combine like terms if possible. So try this one out, and don't worry if you don't get it right on your first try. We haven't even done one like this. If you think back to multiplying polynomials though, you just might figure it out. Good luck. We start by distributing the 3. So we'll have 3 times 2 for our first term. We'll add to that three 3 root 7 for our second term. Now that we've distributed the 3, let's distribute the root 2. We'll have root 2 times 2 for the third term, and root 2 times root 7 for our fourth term. Next, we multiply 3 times 2, which equals 6, these are multiplied together but we can't really change anything since this is not inside of a radical. So we just have the 3 times the root of 7. Here we list the number and find the radical so we have 2 times root 2 and finally for this last term we have root 2 times root 7 which equals to root 14. We can't simplify any of these roots since, these numbers don't have factors that are perfect squares. Also none of these terms are like terms. This is just the number, this is root 7, this is root 2 and this is root 14. Remember the radicands and the indexes, must match in order to add radicals together. So, we just get this lengthy sum of all the terms. That's our final result. Try multiplying this one out. We have the binomial of 3 root 3 plus 5 squared. Think about what the square really means, and then see if you can figure out the answer. As a caution, you can't distribute a square over a sum. We know that's not true. Again, think back to polynomials, and you might be able to figure it out. Try your best. Here's our final answer. Excellent work if you figured that one out. We know that a square or an exponent of two means that we write this out twice. We're multiplying this binomial by itself. Next we want to distribute 3 root 3 to our second binomial. So for the first term we'll have 3 root three times 3 root 3. For the second term we'll have 3 root 3 times 5. Once we've distributed that 3, 3 now we want to distribute this positive 5, well that positive 5 times 3, 3 or the 3rd term and positive 5 times positive 5 for a 4th term, we multiply these two terms together to get 9 times 3, when were at the square root of any number times itself is just that number For these two terms, we'll 15 root 3, and 15 root 3, and on the end we have a positive 25. We can combine these terms together, since they both have a radical of square root of 3. So we have 30 square roots of 3, 9 times 3 is 27, and I move this 25 over here, so I can add my like terms together to get the final result. Great thinking if you got here. Try multiplying this third one out. You want to simplify the product of any radicals as you can, and then combine like terms as always. Good luck here. Our final answer is negative 19 plus the square root of 77. Nice work if you found this answer. Now this one was tough because we will end up distributing a square root of negative 11 in our problem. Let's see how it's done. First we distribute the square root of 7 to 2 root 7 and to 3 root 11. Next we distribute the negative square root of 11 to 2 root 7 and to 3 root 11... I write all these out so that way you don't confuse multiplying numbers and multiplying radicals. Like for this first term, I have 1 times 2 which equals 2, and root 7 times root 7 which is just 7. For the second term, I'll have 3 times the square root of 77. For a third term, we'll have negative 2 times the square root of 77. And finally for our 4th term we'll have negative 3 times 11. The square root of 11 times the square root of 11 is just 11. We combine these two terms since they both have the square root of 77. 3 root 77 minus 2 root 77 is 1 root 77. We carry out the multiplication and then we'll have 14 minus 33, which equals negative 19. We bring down our root to get our final answer. we use a similar approach when multiplying context numbers. We just need to remember that i squared equals negative 1. So if ever we multiply two i's together, and we get i squared, we should replaced i squared with the value of negative 1. Essentially, it will just change the sign of a term that we're working with. So try using this knowledge on your own. See if you can multiply these two expressions together. Now I don't expect you to know this right off the bat, but if you use your knowledge of i squared equaling negative 1 and what you know about multiplication, I think you might get these. Either way have some fun and play around with the math. The first answer is negative 12 plus 8i, and the second answer is 22 plus 14i. If you figured either one of these out, great work. We start this first one by distributing the 4i to 2 and to 3i. 4i times 2 equals 8i, and 4i times 3i equals positive 12i squared. This is just kind of like x times x. We know x times x is x squared, so i times i is i squared. Okay, here comes the important part. We want to substitute i squared with the value of negative 1. So here's an i squared, so I'll replace it with negative 1. This is the key step to multiply complex numbers. You already know about distribution, and you already know about combining like terms, but you might not have known about that substitution. This is how we get a result of positive 12 plus 8i. For complex numbers, we usually list the real part first followed by the imaginary part. This is why I put the negative 12 here. We either have a plus bi, or we have a minus bi. These are the two forms that we'll see. For our second problem, we start by distributing this positive 3 to the 4 and to negative 2i. Next, we want to distrubte the 5i to our second parentheses. We'll have 5i times positive 4, and 5i time negative 2i. We can clean up our multiplication to get 12 minus 6i plus 20i minus 10i squared. We have like terms of i, so negative 6i and 20i equals positive 14i. The other terms stay the same. Next, we have i squared. So we need to replace that with negative 1. This means we'll have negative 10 times negative 1, which would equal positive 10. Whenever we have an i square term it essentially makes the number negative. Like here, we had 12i squared and we get negative 12. Whereas here, we have negative 10i squared and we get positive 10. Now we're ready to combine our final like terms of 12 and 10 to get our final result. Now again, don't worry if you struggled with this one. You'll have a chance at the next one. If you got both of the last one's correct, then now its time to show off your skills again. Otherwise if you might have stumbled the first time, now's your chance to shine. Try multiplying these expressions together, and then write your answer in the corresponding box below. Good luck. For the first solution, we'll have negative 18 plus 24i. And for the second solution, we'll have 28 plus 16i. Nice work, if you got those two correct. We start by distributing the 6i to 4 and 3i. Next, we multiply to get 24i, and 18i squared. We replace i squared with its value of negative 1. So, essentially 18i squared becomes negative 18. Now we just flip the order of the real part and the imaginary part to get negative 18 plus 24i. In the second problem, we distribute positive 6 to 2 and to 4i. In the second distribution, we want to be careful. We have negative 4i times 2 here, and negative 4i times positive 4i here. We perform multiplication on each of our four terms to get 12 plus 24i minus 8i minus 16i squared. We combine our like terms of positive 24i and negative 8i to get positive 16i. Next, we want to replace this i squared with a value of negative 1. So negative 16i squared becomes positive 16. Remember, whenever we have an i squared term, the sign just changes, and we no longer have the variable of i squared. This was also true over here. We had positive 18i squared, which turned into negative 18. Finally, we add our like terms of 12 and 16 to get 28 plus 16i, the final result. Nice work if you got at least one of those correct. Let's continue our practice with Multiplying Radicals with these two problems. What do you think these are in simplified form? The first answer is 3x, and our second answer is 2 plus 2 times the cube root of 6. Great thinking for getting those two correct. Now, these were a little bit tricky because you had to keep in mind we had cube roots. We can multiply these two radicals together since the indexes match, so we'll get 27x cubed. The factor of 3 appears three times underneath the radical as is the factor of x. This means we pull out one 3 and one x to get 3x. This should also make sense. We've seen the cube root of 27 before, and we know that's 3. And using power divided by root, we'll have 3 divided by 3 which is x to the 1. For our second problem, we'll distribute the cube root of 2 to each of these terms. So, we'll have the cube root of 8 and the cube root of 48. We know the cube root of 8 is simply 2, and we can split up the cube root of 48 into cube root of 8 times 6. We use our product rule to split this up into cube root of 8 times the cube root of 6, and simplify once again to get our final result. You might not have always shown this step throughout your problem solving, and that's okay. You just really want to be careful when you take cube roots of numbers. Put the factor on the outside, and leave anything else inside the radical. Here's our last problem for this lesson on multiplication on radicals. Try multiplying these two binomials out that contain cube roots. Think carfully when you simplify, and at the end, think about whether you can combine like terms or like radicals. Good luck. This multiplication, simplifies to this expression. Now this might look really complicated, but it's not too tough to get there. First, we distribute the cube root of 4xy to each of the terms in our second parentheses. When we multiply these two cube roots together, we'll get 64, x cubed, y cubed. So we know this distribution gives us this first term. Now we want to distribute this to the second term. For the second term, we'll have the cube root of 12, and then xy, from these variables here. Next we distribute the cube root of 2 to this term. So we'll have the cube root of 32x squared y squared. And finally for our last term we'll have the cubed root of 2 times the cubed root of 3. Which equals the cube root of 6. Next we try to simplify any of the radicals that we can. The cubed root of 64 equals 4. And the cubed root of x cubed y cubed is xy. This radical is already simplified since there's no factor that repeats 3 times underneath the radical, so we leave it as is. We can't simplify the x squared y squared since we don't have a group of 3. But we can simplify 32 here, since 32 is the same thing as 8 times 4. The cubed root of 8 equals 2, and this leads us to our answer. On the end here, the cubed root of 6 can't be simplified, so we have to tack it onto the end. There's no like terms here since none of the radicands are equal. So we're done. This is our final answer. I hope you've been notice that the theme here in our units are different types of expressions. We've been learning the skills into perform operations on polynomials, rational expressions, and now radicals. The last operation mean to learn radicals is division. We can think of the division of two radicals as fraction. We'll have root two divided by root five. But for radical expressions, we don't want a radical to appear in the denominator. There are few reasons why we want to change this. First, it's typically easier to approximate this division if we divide it by an integer here rather than a radical. Secondly, we can determine if the expressions are equivalent to other expressions by changing what this fraction looks like. Keep in mind that when we rationalize a denominator, we're going to change what the fraction looks like but we won't change it's value. What do you think we can multiply the numerator and denominator by so that we have a denominator without a radical? We want to multiply by a form of 1 here so whatever we multiply this denominator by, we'd also multiply this numerator by. We want to multiply by root 5 divided by root 5. Now, that's great thinking if you figured it out. We want to multiply by a form of 1 so we don't change the value of this fraction. We do this because root 5 times root 5 equals root 25. Now, we can take the square root of our denominator, which equals 5. For the numerator, we'll have root 2 times root 5, which equals root 10. And that, we'll just leave as root 10. This means that root 2 divided by root 5 is really equal to root 10 divided by 5. Now, if you're in disbelief, I would plug this into a calculator, and this into a calculator, and see if you get the same result. I think this is pretty cool. I mentioned before that we rationalize the denominator so we can make a better approximation for our answer. We can use the square root of 10 divided by 5 to help us approximate the answer for this expression. I don't know what it really means to divide by root 5. But I can approximate this by dividing by 5. We know the square root of 9 equals 3, so the square root of 10 is just a little bit more than 3. We're going to approximate it though and just use 3. So root 10 divided by 5 is about 3 5th or 6 10th. If we would had left this expression as it was, we would have had to divide by a non-terminating decimal. Dividing by the square root of 5 is much more challenging than doing this approximation. As we work through this unit, we'll be taking denominators that contain radicals and changing them into integers or other expressions that don't contain radicals. For square roots, this is pretty simple. We can just multiply the numerator and denominator. By the exact radical that appears in the denominator. Then we just multiply our radicals together and simplify if possible. Try rationalizing these denominators. When we rationalize a denominator, we want to multiply by something so it eliminates the radical in the denominator. So what do you think we need to multiply each of these fractions by, and what would be the final result? Here are the answers, and great thinking if you got all three correct. For the first one, we want to multiply by the square root of 2 divided by the square root of 2. We really multiply by a form of 1 so that way we can change our denominator to the square root of 2 squared. This allows us to take the square root, so we get 2 in our denominator. And this is what we mean when we rationalize a denominator. We multiply our fraction by a form of 1, so that way our radical does not appear here. For the second one, we want to get rid of the square root of y in this denominator. So we multiply the numerator and denominator by the square root of y. This gives us the root of xy here, and the root of y squared here. Our factor of y appears twice inside of our square root, so the root undoes our power and we're left with y. Notice, another fraction with no radical in the denominator. That's rationalizing. And finally, for this last one, we just want to multiply the numerator and denominator by the square root of 2xy. Now you might be wondering, how did I get this. Well there's an intermediate simplification step. In the numerator, we'll have 4 times the root of 2xy. In our denominator, we know if we multiply the same square roots together, we'll just get the radicand, which is just 2xy. Now we simply 4 divided by 2 to get 2 divided by 1. Here's our final result. For higher order roots though, we need to do something a little bit different. If you remember we had a product rule that let us split up a root of a and b. If these were factors of a radicand we could split the root up into the nth root of a times the nth root of b. Well it turns out there's a similar rule for division. The quotient rule lets us take the in root of a fraction we can just split it up into m through it of a divided by the m through it of b. This means that the cube root of this fraction becomes the cube root of 27. Divided by the cubed root of 16. We're just using our quotient rule. We know the cubed root of 27 will end up being 3, since we can rewrite 27 as 3 cubed. But we can't exactly take the cubed root of 16, 16 is 2 to the 4th. We don't want this cubed root to appear in the denominator, so we need to rationalize this part. If we can get this power to be a multiple of 3, then we would be able to take the cube root of it. For example, I really want this denominator to become the cubed root of 2 to the 6. I can take the cubed root of this, it's just 2 squared. So when we reationalize the denominator of a higher order root. We want to raise the power of each factor of the radicand to be a multiple of the index of the root. In other words, we want to have powers inside the radical that are evenly divisible by the index of the root. So, what would be multiply this numerator and this denominator by to change our denominator into this form? Keep in mind that whatever we multiply the denominator by we need to multiply the numerator by since we're really just multiplying by a form of 1. The key idea when rationalizing a denominator is to choose a way to multiply by a form of one, so this denominator ends up simplifying to something that doesn't contain a radical. So, if we want to get the power of 4 up to the power of 6. We need to multiply it by two more factors of 2 inside of a cubed root. We have to use an index of three here since this is also an index of 3. If the indexes match, then we can multiply these radicants together to get 2 to the 4th times 2 squared, which is 2 to the 6th. So we know we get the cube root of 2 to the 6 for a denominator, and we'll get the cube root of 3 cubed times 2 squared in the numerator. So from here, simplify the answer. What's the final result? We get a final answer of 3 times the cube root of 4 all divided by 4. Nice thinking, if you found this answer. We know the cube root of 3 to the 3rd is just 3, so that comes outside of our radical. We can't take the cube root of 2 squared since this power isn't divisible by this root. 2 squared stays inside of our cubed root. For our denominator, we'll use power divided by root to get 2 squared. Now we just simplify our powers to get our final answer. So let's think about this again. What should the denominator look like in order to be able to take a cube root of this denominator? We know that each of these factors needs to be raised to a power that is divisible by 3. So we'll multiply this numerator by something. And this denominator by something to change this, to what we need. So we need to multiply this numerator and this denominator by some sort of expression. When we do that, we want to get an expression inside of our cubed root that can be simplified. So you tell me. What should this expression be? You want to use the factor of 3, x and y and indicate their powers. Don't include the cube root inside of this box, since I already have it written for you outside. Keep in mind that you want all of your power divisible by 3. We want this expression inside of our cube root to be 3 to the 3rd, x to the 9th and y to the 6. This allows us to take the cube root of each of these factors. Nice work if you found this expression. So, what are we need to multiply this numerator by, and this denominator by to change our fraction into this form? It turns out we want to multiply each part by the cube root of 3 squared x squared y squared. We want to multiply by enough factors of 3 x and y. To turn each of these powers into these powers. So for 3 to the 1, we want to multiply by 3 square to get 3 cubed. For x to the 7th, we multiply by x squared to get x to the 9th and for y to the 4th we multiply by y squared to get y to the 6. Keep in mind that this expression needs to be inside of a cubed root for us to multiply these factors together. And since we multiplied this denominator by this amount we must also multiply our numerator by the same amount. We're multiplying by a form of 1. To finish up our last problem, we simply simplify the denominator. The cube root of 3 cubed is 3, the cube root of x to the 9th is x cubed, and the cube root of y to the 6 is y squared. Remember, the whole idea here was to rationalize this denominator. We wanted a denominator that didn't contain a radical. So we multiplied by enough factors underneath of a cube root, in order to change our denominator to something that we could simplify. For our numerator, we just had 1 time this cube root, and then we simplified the cube root, 3 squared is 9, and then I have my variables x squared y squared. We know we can't simplify this cube root of all, since all the factors only appear twice. And it's okay that we can't simplify the numerator, because our ultimate goal was to rationalize this denominator. We wanted to get rid of this radical symbol here. Try rationalizing this denominator, you can use the last problem as a guide, and think about what you would need to do to change this denominator so that it doesn't contain a cube root. When you think you have the final numerator, and the final denominator, enter them here. Also, be sure to simplify if possible. We have 3 times the cubed root of 4 xy squared divided by xy cubed. Great work if you found these two answers. In order to rationalize this denominator, we want our powers of 2, x and y to be divisible by 3. This means, we'll going to to have 2 cubed, x to the 6th, and y to the 9th. We need to up these powers, so that way they're divisible by 3. So, to change 2 to the 1 to 2 to the 3, we multiply by a cube root of 2 squared. This means, we have to multiply by the cube root of 2 squared x to the 1 y squared. This is so that way the powers sum to multiples of 3. We'll 2 to the 1 and 2 squared, which is 2 to the 3rd. x to the 5th and x to the 1, which is x to the 6th. And y to the 7th times y squared, which y to the 9th. Since we multiply a denominator by this expression, we multiply our numerator by the same expression. Now, we want to simplify. Our numerator stays the same, since we can't pull out any of these factors, since they don't appear three times. This denominator simplifies to 2 x squared and y to the 3rd. Remember, we're just applying power divided by root to get each of these powers. And we can actually simplify further. The 6 and the 2 reduce to 3 divided by 1. And this power of x reduces with 1 of the powers in the denominator. In other words, we'll have 1 more power of x in the denominator, than we would in our numerator. This leaves us with our simplified answer. Now, the hardest part to this problem is understanding what to multiply by here. I think if you start by figuring out what your denominator should look like, you'll get there more quickly. Try rationalizing this expression. Write your final numerator here, and your final denominator here. Good luck on this one. The final solution is the cube root of 4xyz squared divided by 2x squared yz, that's some great algebra work, if you got that one correct. Again, let's start by thinking about what this denominator should look like in order for it to simplify. We know we need the factors 2, x, y, and z to appear a multiple of three times. This means, that we want to change to the 1 To 2 to the 3rd. We want to change x to the 5th to x to the 6th, y squared to y cubed, and z to z cubed. Notice how each of these powers is the next highest multiple of 3 for these powers. So to change this denominator we'll multiply by the cubed root of 2 squared x y z squared. And since we multiplied this denominator by this expression, we multiply the numerator by the same amount. Next we simplify the numerator and the denominator. Our numerator can't be simplified so we just rewrite 2 squared as 4. For our denominator, we take the cube root of each of these factors. We use power divided by root to get 2 x squared yz. And here's our final answer. Here's our third practice problems for rationalizing higher order denominators. Now careful here, we don't have a cube root anymore. We have a six root. So think about what factors you need to multiply by or what powers these would become in order to rationalize your denominator. Good luck. Here was the answer for this one. Amazing effort if you got both of these correct. Now this one was tricky since there was a simplification that you had to do at the end. Lets see if you got it. Lets start by thinking what we want our denominator to be in order to simplify. We want each of these powers to be a multiple of 6. So that way, they can be divided by 6. We'll want the powers of 2, x and y to be divisible by 6 since that's our index of the root. So we want to change to the 1 into 2 to the 6 x squared into x to the 6th and y to the 8th into y to the 12th. This means we have to multiply the denominator by the 6th root of 2 to the 5th x to the 4th and y to the 4th. These are the missing factors we need, to increase each of these powers to these powers. We want to multiply by a form of 1, so we multiply our numerator by the same expression as this denominator. Next we multiply 4 times this radical to get our new numerator. We simply our denominator by writing 2xy squared. It's the 6th root of each of these factors. Our numerator can't be simplified. Since each of these powers is not divisible by 6. So we just rewrite 2 to the 5th as 32. We have a common factor of 2 in our numerator and our denominator so we can simplify. This leaves us with our final answer. Great work with your factors and radicals if you got this far. Here's your fourth practical problem, on rationalizing denominators. Think carefully about your index, and your powers for each factor and then simplify in the end if you can. Good luck. Here, the answer is 3 times the 6 root of a squared b to the 5th c to the 4th, all divided by b squared, c squared. That's amazing algebra work, if you got any of that correct. Just like in our last problem, we want to increase the power of each of these factors, so that way they're divisible by 6. This means we need to change a to the 4th and to a to the 6th, b to the 7th, and to b to the 12th, and c to the 8th, and c to the 12th, as well. This means we need to multiply it by 6th root of a squared b to the 5th, c to the 4th. We know this, since a to the 4th times a squared is a to the 6th, b to the 7th times b to the 5th is b to the 12th. And c to the 8th times c to the 4th is c to the 12th. We multiply our numerators together, leaving 3a in front of our radical. Next, we simplify our denominator as a, b squared, c squared. We just divide each of these powers by 6. And finally, we reduce a power of a, since a divided by a equals 1. This leaves us with our final answer. And notice that a denominator does not contain a 6 root anymore. Great work. But what if we wanted to rationalize the denominator that looked like this. If we multiplied our original fraction by the root of 7 divided by the root of 7. We would still wind up with a radical in our denominator. So this wouldn't work. Keep in mind, when we're multiplying, we would just distribute this root 7 to each of these terms, to get 7 minus root 35. Likewise, if we were to multiply by the root of 5 divided by the root of 5. We would still get an expression that contained a radical in our denominator. And that's no good. So we need a different way to be able to simplify this denominator so it doesn't contain these radicals. We solved the difference of squares pattern with polynomials. We knew that a minus b times a plus b would equal a squared minus b squared. And we even solved this for a reverse process when we factored. So let's use this to our advantage with radicals. If I want to multiply these two expressions together, what would I get for my answer? As a hint, you really just need to square a, and then square b, and subtract them. So see if you can figure these three out. Good luck. We'll have positive 3 for the first one, negative 3 for the second one, and negative 51 for the third one. Great work, if you've done all three of those. Now if you weren't quite sure what to do, that's okay. Let's see how it's done. For the first problem, we know that the a value's really equal to 3. So, we're going to square this 3. Our b value is really squared to 6, so we'll square the square root of 6. 3 squared equals 9 and the square root of 6 squared is 6. Then we just subtract these two numbers to get positive 3. For our second problem, the a value is really equal to the square root of 2. And our b value is really equal to the square root of 5. Squaring this square root leaves us with 2. And squaring this square root leaves us with 5. So 2 minus 5 equals negative 3 and this last difference of squares, will have a as 2 root of 3 and b as 3 root of 7 and here's where we want to be careful. We want to square this 2 and this square root of 3. We know 2 square root is 4. And the square root of 3 squared is 3. There's a multiplication between this number and this radical, so after we square there's still multiplication between this number and this number. We square 3 root 7 to get 9 times 7. Next we multiply 4 times 3 to get 12 and 9 times 7 to get 63, and then subtract to get our final answer of negative 51. Now I think that's pretty incredible that we can take something that contains radicals. and pop out just one number We're going to use this difference of square pattern to help us simplify the binomial radicals we saw earlier, in the denominator. But before we do that, let's learn a new term, the term is conjugate. The conjugate of a binomial is the same exact binomial, with an opposite sign in between the two terms. So the conjugate of the root of 7 plus 2 would be the root of 7 minus 2. We just change the middle sign. What's so great about the conjugate is that if we multiply a binomial with it's conjugate, we just get a number. We won't have any more radicals. For example, if we multiply these two binomials together, we'll just have a squared minus b squared. We square the root of 7 to get 7, and we square the 2 to get 4, 7 minus 4 equals 3. So what do you think would be the conjugate of these binomials. List those conjugates here. And then I want you to multiply it, the binomial with it's conjugate, to get the product. Here are the conjugates and here are the products. Great work if you found at least four of those. We know for the conjugate we just change the sign between the two terms so the conjugate of 1 minus root 11 is 1 plus root 11. Here we change the subtraction sign to a positive. And here we change the positive sign to a negative. For the products we want to use our pattern for the difference of two squares. We know the product of two binomials with differing signs will be a squared minus b squared. So we can square a which is 1 here And squared b, which is the root of 11. One squared equals 1, and root 11 squared equals 11. We find the difference of these squares, which is 1 minus 11, which equal negative 10. For the second one, when we square the a term, we'll have 9 times 2, we square the 3 and we square the root 2. For b squared, or square two which is four, and we square the square root of three, which equals three. We know nine times two is 18, and four times three is 12. This gives us a final answer of six. And for the last one, we have negative five squared for the a term and six root two squared for the b. Negative five squared is 25 and 6 root 2 squared is 36 times 2 or 72. 25 minus 72 equals negative 47. So going back to our original problem, if we want to rationalize this denominator we can actually use the conjugate. We multiply the denominator and the numerator by the same amount. So that way we multiply by 1. We know we can multiply by the conjugate since if we multiply these two expressions together we'll wind up with a number in our denominator, with no radical. We'll simply have a squared minus b squared, which would be 7 minus 5. A squared is 7, and b squared is 5. We multiply each of these radicals by 4, to get this numerator. Next we simplify our denominator to get 2. If we leave the 4 outside of these two radicals then we can simplify a common factor of 2 in our numerator and denominator. So our denominator simplifies to 1, leaving us with 2 root 7 plus 2 root 5. Notice that we rationalized our denominator. We had something that contained radicals to something that turned into 1. Now not every time our denominator will be so nice. Sometimes we'll just have a number down here. In this case our denmoinator was 1, but we know that's not always the case. Try this first practice problem now. Rationalize this denominator by multiplying by the conjugate. When you think you have the final answer, put it here. The correct answer is 5 times root 5 plus 10. Nice thinking if you got it. This would be an alternate form of the correct answer as well. You could have factored a 5 from each of these terms to have 5 times the square root of 5 plus 2. Keep in mind that you need parenthesis around this entire quantity since you're distributing the 5 to each of hte terms. We start rationalizing this denominator by multiplying the numerator and the denominator by the conjugate. The conjugate of root 5 minus 2 is root 5 plus 2. We distribute the 5 to each of these terms to get 5 root 5 plus 10 in our numerator. For the denominator we'll use the difference of squares pattern to do a squared minus b squared. The A is route 5 and the B is positive 2. This leaves us with 5 minus 4 in our denominator. 5 minus 4 equals 1 and anything divided by 1 is itself. So we're left with our final answer. Try rationalizing the second problem. You want to multiply by the conjugate divided by the conjugate first and then simplify your answer. Be careful when you simplify your answer, and when you think you've got it write the final result here. To start our problem, we want to multiply the numerator and denominator by the conjugate of this denominator. The conjugate of root 2 plus root 5, is root 2 minus root 5. We distribute this 6 to each of these terms to get 6 root 2 minus 6 root 5. Next, we use our difference of squares factoring pattern, to do a squared minus b squared. We square root 2 to get 2 and we square root 5 to get 5. Next we subtract inner denominator to get a denominator of negative 3, and here's where we want to be careful. When we simplify we can divide negative 3 into this term and into this term, 6 divided by negative 3 is negative 2, and negative 6 divided by negative 3 is positive 2. This is how we get our answer of negative 2 root 2, plus 2 root 5. Another way the think about it is to factor a negative 3 from each of these terms. If we factor a negative 3 from this first term, we'll be left with negative 2 times root 2. And we factor a negative 3 from this term we'll be left with 2 root 5. We can check this really quickly by distributing this negative 3 to each of these terms. We'll wind up with our numerator from before. Now that we have a common factor of negative 3 in the numerator and in the denominator we can simplify. These reduce to 1 which leaves us with just our numerator, negative 2 root 2 plus 2 root 5. And now there are a couple of ways to write this answer. You could have factored a negative 2 out to get this answer or you could have factored a positive 2 out. Either of these is correct. Nice algebraic thinking if you got any of these answers. Try rationalizing this fraction. Write your final answer here, and be sure to simplify if you can. Good luck. When we rationalize this fraction, we'll get 4 root 35 plus 2 root 15. Great effort if you found it. We start by multiplying the numerator and denominator by the conjugate of this expression. The conjugate of 2 root 5 minus root 7 is 2 root 5 plus root 7. We multiply 26 to each of these terms to get 52 root 5 plus 26 root 7. For the denominator, we use our difference of squares to do a squared minus b squared. We can't simplify or combine terms in the numerator, since this is root 5 and this is root 7. So we just list the numerator here again, and then we simplify the denominator. 2 squared is 4, and the root of 5 squared is 5. We have our subtraction sign and then we have the square of root 7, which is just 7. We simplify our denominator to get 13, and then divide it into each of the terms. 15 divided by 13 is 4, and 26 divided by 13 is 2. Another way to think about it, is we're really factoring a 13 from the 52 root 5, and the 26 root 7. If we factor our 13 out, we'll be left with 4 root 5, plus 2 root 7. This allows us to simplify the factor of 13 that appears in the numerator, and denominator. This simplifies to 1. So we're left with this for a fraction, and anything divided by 1, is simply itself. So we can write our answer like this. Here's our last problem for the lesson. Try rationalizing this denominator. Think about if you can simplify in the end, and think about if you can combine like radicals at all. Good luck. The final answer is 2 root 35 plus root 15, all divided by 5. Now if you got this one correct, that's amazing. You've really mastered rationalizing denominators. We start rationalizing this denominator by multiplying by the conjugate divided by the conjugate. Here our conjugate is 2 root 7 plus 2 root 3. We distribute 5 root 5 to each of these terms to get 10 root 35 plus 5 root 15. For our denominator, we use the pattern of the difference of squares to do A squared minus B squared. Next, we simplify our denominator. 2 root 7 squared is 4 times 7, and root 3 squared is 3. Next, we multiply here to get 28. And we really know 28 minus 3 equals 25. Now I notice that each of these terms has a common factor of 5. I can factor a 5 from each of these, to be left with 5 times the quantity, 2 root 35 plus one root 15. And for our denominator of 25, I'll split it up to factors of 5 times 5. These reduce to 1, leaving us with 2 root 35 plus root 15 in the numerator. And 1 times 5 or 5 in our denominator. Great work if you found some of the steps or most of the steps to rationalize this denominator. In this new unit we're going to be looking at Quadratic Equations and Inequalities. These are going to be equations and inequalities that have a variable squared. Now I know we already learned how to factor quadratics from before and we even used that to help us solve quadratic equations. We're going to learn some other methods that we can use to also help us solve these. Let's review factoring quadratics before we get started. How do we even know if a quadratic is factorable? If this is factorable, there must be factors of blank that sum to blank. I want you to fill in these blanks with one of the choices below. What do we know must be true, if we can factor this expression? We know if this factorable, there must be factors of a times c which sum to our middle coefficient b. We know this because if we can factor this, it would be in this form. This first term ax squared comes from multiplying ax times cx. And our last term c comes from multiplying B times D. The middle term bx comes from multiplying Ax times D. And adding to that, B times Cx. We distribute the Ax twice, and we distribute the B twice. And really, all of these different variables represent real numbers. Let's see if you still remember how to solve quadratic equations. See if you can factor this quadratic and then solve for the values of X. Be sure you write your answer as a set and use commas in between multiple solutions. The solutions were negative 3 halves, and 1 6th. Nice work if you found both of these. You've really mastered factoring if you got these correct. If this gave you some trouble, you definitely want to review your factoring techniques, and try solving some quadratic equations on your own. We start factoring by finding the factor pair of negative 36 that sums to positive 16. Those two factors are negative 2 and 18. We use these as the coefficients of x to rewrite this middle term. Then we use factoring by grouping to get 2 x plus 3 times 6 x minus 1. Next, we set each of these factors equal to 0. We solve each equation for x to get x is equal to negative 3 halves, and x is equal to 1 6th. This is our solution set. Try solving the second quadratic equation. Keep in mind you need to rearange this equation first, before you even start to solve. You want to set this equal to zero The two solutions are negative 9 halves and positive 5. Nice algebraic thinking for getting this one correct. We start by setting this equation equal to 0 by subtracting 45 from both sides. Remember, for quadratic equations, we want to get them in the form Ax squared plus Bx plus C. Where here, these numbers are A, B and C. We want the other side of our equation to equal 0. Now we want to find factors of A times C, or negative 90, that sum to negative one. Those factors are negative 10 and postivie 9. We use these factors as the coefficients to rewrite our middle term. Then we use factoring by grouping to get these two factors. Next we set each factor equal to zero and solve for x. For the first equation, we'll get x is equal to negative 9 halves and when we set the second factor equal to 0, we'll get x is equal to positive 5. Finally we write our solution set. Nice work if you got that correct. Alright, here's our last review problem. Try factoring this quadratic and figure out the solutions for x. Again, you'll want to write your answer as a solution set here. Have fun, and good luck. Here, the correct answer is our negative 5 halves and positive 2. Now that's amazing if you got that correct. You've really gained steam in solving quadratic equations. We start solving this equation by subtracting 10 from both sides. This sets our quadratic equation equal to 0, and now we can try and factor. We want to find factors of negative 20 that sum to positive 1. These factors are positive 5 and negative 4. We use these coefficients to rewrite our middle term of x, and these factoring by grouping to get these factors. We set each factor equal to 0, and then solve each equation for x. This gives us a solution set of negative 5 halves and positive 2. I hope this was a great refresher on solving quadratic equations. In the upcoming lessons, we'll find other ways to solve these quadratics. Sometimes they aren't always factorable. We're going to use our knowledge of radicals and factoring to solve quadratic equations. We'll use three different strategies in this unit, and we'll learn them one by one. The three methods are the square root method, completing the square and the quadratic formula. First, we'll learn each of the methods, and then you'll have a chance to pick which method you think is best to use in different cases. For this lesson let's start by focusing on the square root method. If a quadratic equation is in this form, we can simply divide both sides by a, and then take the square root of both sides to find x. If we divide both sides by a, we'll get x squared is equal to c divided by a. And now we take the square root of both sides. When we take the square root of both sides, we need to add a plus or minus symbol in front of the side that doesn't have a variable. And here's why we include this plus or minus sign. Think about if I had x squared equals 1. I know there are really two values that make this true. Positive 1 squared would equal 1, and negative 1 squared would also equal 1. This means when we solve and take the square root of both sides. We need to add the plus or minus symbol to account for both the positive and the negative answer. The square root of x squared is x and the square root of 1 is 1. So really x could be positive 1 like we thought or x could equal negative 1. So you see if you can use the square root method. Try solving this equation by following these steps. First, we divide both sides of our equation by 5, to get x squared equals positive 6. Next, we take the square root of both sides and we indicate the plus or minus sign here. This gives us our answer of positive root 6 and negative root 6. You could have also written the answer like this, root 6, negative root 6. Or switch the order of these 2. So solving this equation isn't that much harder, you just have new symbol of plus or minus. Like all of our other equations, we can check to make sure that this solution is correct. If we substitute in positive root 6 into our equation, we'll notice that it checks. The square root of 6 squared equals 6, and 5 times 6 equals 30. But remember, we can have the positive answer or the negative answer. So let's check x equal to negative root 6. We plug in negative root 6 in for x, and square it. Squaring a negative number always results in a positive. So we know negative root 6 squared equals positive 6. Then we have 5 times 6, which is 30, so our answer checks. This is always a great way to check your answers. ANd this reinforces why we have the plus or minus symbol. It's because we have two answers. Since we know that taking an even root of an equation creates a positive and a negative result, we need to be able to enter this new sign, this plus or minus. Luckily Math Quill has a way for us to do that. To enter this plus or minus sign, you want to type in a backslash, and then the letters p and m. Of course, p and m here stands for plus or minus. But like most things in math quill, we also need to enter a space in order for this symbol to appear. Try typing these first two expressions using the keystrokes on the screen. And then see if you can figure out these last two. Keep learning, and good luck. For the second one, you need to type in the nthroot and a space. This will create this radical symbol. Your cursor bar will appear here, and you'll need to hit the Right Arrow key and then type in 5 to get what's underneath the radical. These would be the keystrokes for our third expression. Notice that after we type in the square root symbol, we don't need to hit the Right Arrow key. That's because the index for this root is assumed to be a 2, It's rare that you'll ever see it, but we know it's a square root. That's why it's a 2. Math Quill knows it's 2, and so you're just placed back inside the radical. And then you can type in 21. Now for this last expression, you might not have any idea what i is. That's okay. We're going to cover this later. To start this expression, I would type in a forward slash. This would create an entire fraction with a spot for a numerator and the denominator. We type in these keystrokes in order to get our entire numerator. And notice that our cursor bar is here. Once we type in the 6, our cursor bar will appear here, and then we hit the Right Arrow key twice in order to move it down to the denominator. Then, we just type a 4 to wrap up our expression. Now, there are other ways that you can have done this to recreate the fraction bar. You could've created the fraction bar after the 6. But that means, this forward slash would go in between these 2 errors. After you type the 6, you're still inside the radical. So, if you type the forward slash here, you'll create a fraction within the radical. You don't want that to happen, so you hit the Right Arrow key once. Which moves the cursor bar outside of the radical, and then you can type a forward slash to create your fraction, hit the Right Arrow key again to move to the denominator and then enter 4 to finish up. Either way you do this last one is correct, I just want you to get comfortable using math quill. If that first one gave you some trouble, try this one out. What do you think the solutions are for x? Again, you can either enter your answer with a plus or minus sign, or you can write your two answers separated by a comma. Here, the answer is plus or minus 5 times root 2. Great thinking if you found these answers. We start by dividing both sides of our equation by 4. This gives us x squared on the left, and 50 on the right. Whenever we use the square root method, we want to isolate x squared. Or there might just be some sort of quantity squared. This allows us to take the square root in this step. Doing that we get x is equal to positive or negative square root of 50. Then we just use our knowledge of simplifying roots to get x is equal to plus or minus 5 times the square root of 2. Our square root method also works for equations in this form. Notice that we just have a quantity over here, squared equal to some number. This means we can take the square root of the left side and the right side. When we take the square root of this side, it undoes the square power, so we're just left with this quantity, ax plus b. So, I have ax plus b on the left side of our equation and plus or minus root c on the right side of our equation. Next we subtract b from both sides, so that way we can start to isolate the X. Notice that this negative b, is not like terms with radical c. All I can do, is list this as negative b plus or minus the square root of c. Finally, to get x by itself, we divide both sides by the coefficient of a. So we know x could equal negative b plus root c divided by a. Or x could equal negative b minus root c, all divided by a. There's really two solutions here. So, using this as your guide, what do you think the solutions would be for this equation? You want to write your answer here using the plus or minus symbol, or you can enter them separated by a comma. Now not every single step on this left side will match this side, but I think you can figure the steps out. Good luck. Our solutions for x are 5 plus or minus 2 times root 3. Great thinking if you got this. Now, I know we haven't done that much practice yet. So that's totally okay if you struggled. I'm sure you'll get the next one. We begin to solve this problem by taking the square root of both sides. Since we have a quantity squared, with a variable inside it, on the left. Taking this square root undoes the square power. Leaving us with x minus 5 on the left hand side of our equation. On the right hand side, we'll just have plus or minus the square root of 12. Next, we'll add 5 to both sides to isolate our x variable. So, we'll have x is equal to 5 plus or minus the square root of 12. And again, here this 5 is not like terms with the radical 12. So we can't add them together, we just list them as a sum and difference. We need to simplify the root of 12, so we break it into 4 times 3, this gives us our final answer of 5 plus or minus 2 root 3. All right. Let's see if you have the right stuff. Try solving this equation and remember to simplify your answer in the end if possible. The solutions are negative 2 plus 3 root 2, and negative 2 minus 3 root 2. Great thinking if you found those two answers. We start by taking the square root of both sides of our equation. The square root of the quantity x plus 2 squared is just x plus 2. And when we take the square root of 18, we pick up the negative root. So we have plus or minus the square root of 18. Next we isolate x, or get it alone by subtracting 2 from both sides. We don't have light terms here, so we have x equal to negative 2 plus or minus the root of 18. We simplify our square root of 18 by breaking into 9 times 2 and take the square root of 9 to get our final answer. And do keep in mind there's really two answers here: we have negative 2 plus 3 root 2 and negative 2 minus 3 root 2. Both of these values will check if we plug them into our original equation. How about this one? What do you think the solutions would be for x? Now there's actually one more step at the end here. Maybe you can get it. As a hint, we no longer have coefficient of 1, in front of x. Now it's a 3. Here the solutions are negative 5 plus or minus 2 root 6 all divided by 3. Great algebra skills if you got this one correct. You may have also entered this as your answer. This is correct as well. You would of divided 3 into the first term and 3 in the second term. Since there's no common factors we just list these two terms as fractions. With a plus or minus symbol in between. To start this problem, we take the square root of both sides of our equation. And we indicate the plus or minus sign for this root. So we'll have 3x plus 5 on the left. And positive or negative root 24 on the right. Next, we want to isolate this 3x by subtracting 5 from both sides. We'll get 3x equals negative 5, plus or minus root 24. And finally, to solve for X, we divide both sides by the coefficient 3. This leaves us with 1x equal to negative 5 plus or minus root 24, all divided by 3. We want to look to see if we can simplify any radicals, if possible. The square root of 24 is simplifies to 2 times root 6. So we can replace this here in our final answer. Sometimes we'll need to perform some extra steps to isolate the square before taking the square root, like in this equation. We have something next to our square. We want to get this square quantity alone, so that way we can take the square root of both sides of our equation. So what do you think we'll need to do here? When you think you have the solutions for x ,enter them here using your plus or minus sign. And don't forget to simplify your root if you can. Good luck. The solutions for x are 3 plus or minus 4 root 3, all divided by 2 great algebra work for getting that one correct. First we want to isolate the square by adding 48 to both sides of our equation. So, we'll keep this squared quantity on the left and we'll have positive 48 on the right. Next we take the square root of both sides and indicate the plus or minus root here. This square root undoes our square so we're left with the quantity 2x minus three. On the right we still just have plus or minus root 48. We add three to both sides to isolate our 2x, and then we divide both sides by 2, this coefficient. When we divide both sides by 2 we're left with 1x on the left and 3 plus or minus root 48 divided by 2 on the right. Next we just simplify the square root of 48 to get this answer. Keep in mind you could divide 2 into each of these terms. This would give us x equal to 3 halves plus or minus 2 root 3. If you list your answers like this, or if you list your answers like this, they're both correct. If the last problem was challenging, then see if you can get this one. Isolate this square first and then continue to solve as usual. When you think you've got it, enter your answer here. The solutions here are 3 plus or minus root 10, all divided by 2. Great work, using that square root method, if you got this one correct. We start solving this equation by adding 10 to both sides. This leaves us with the square isolated on the left and positive 10 on the right. Now that we have something squared alone, we can take the square root of both sides. This means we will have 2x minus 3 on the left. And plus or minus root 10 on the right. We add 3 to both sides to get 2x by itself and then divide both sides by positive 2. This leaves us with 1 x in our answer. And again if you really wanted to, you could split this up into two separate fractions, 3 halves plus or minus root 10 divided by 2. Either form is the same. Try solving this first practice problem. What are the possible values for X here? You can either enter the value separated by a comma, or you can use our fancy plus or minus symbol. Here our solution is plus or minus 4. We start by taking the square root of both sides of our equation. When we take the square root, we need to indicate plus or minus, since we could have the positive value or the negative value. We take the square root of 16 to get positive 4 or negative 4. These should also make sense because if we square 4, we get 16. And if we square negative 4, we get 16. Great thinking for finding those answers. What about this equation, what do you think the values of m could be? For this one you should have two seperate answers. So write one here and the other here, separated by a comma. The square quantity is isolated on one side of our equation. So, we can take the square root of this side and this side. The square root undoes the square, leaving us with m plus 2 on the left, and positive or negative root 36 on the right. We know the square root of 36 is just 6. So we have this equation next. We subtract 2 from both sides, to get m is equal to negative 2, plus or minus 6. When we have this equation, m equals negative 2, plus or minus 6, we really have 2 equations. M could equal negative 2 plus 6, or m could equal negative 2 minus 6. There's really 2 values of m here. And since these are like terms, we can simplify. So m could equal positive 4 or m could equal negative 8. These were the two solutions. For this third practice problem, try finding the solution for r. You can enter your answer here. For this one, you don't want to enter it, separated by commas. You want to use the plus or minus symbol. Good luck solving this one, I know you can do it. These are the correct answers. Great algebra solving if you got them. We start by taking the square root of both sides of our equation. So, 3r minus 2 will equal positive or negative root of 27. I'm going to go ahead and simplify the square root of 27 to be 3 root 3. Next we add 2 to both sides of our equation to get 3r is equal to 2 plus or minus 3 root 3. We divide both sides by the coefficient of 3 to get our final result. And if you prefer, you can write your answer as two fractions. 2 3rds plus or minus 3 root 3 divided by 3. Alright, how about for this last one? What do you think would be the solutions for x, here? Be careful when you solve, and make sure you check your answers. Here our solution is plus or minus three i an imaginary solution, pretty cool. We take the square root of both sides to get x is equal to plus or minus the square root of negative nine. Now we've simplified this radical and remember that negative square roots, need to be simplified using i. We can break this radical down into the square root of 9 times the square root of negative 1. Then we replace the square root of negative 1 with i. We can also check our result. We know the answers are not 3 and negative 3. Since 3 squared would equal positive 9 not negative 9. Also at negative 3 squared would be positive 9. Not negative nine like we want in our equation. So since these answers are out, lets make sure the plus or minus 3i works in our equation. I'm going to check our positive 3i here in this equation and our negative 3i here in this equation. When we square the quantity of 3i, we get 3 squared which is 9 and i squared. When we square negative 3i negative 3 times negative 3 is positive 9, and i squared is i squared. And remember back from before, i squared equals negative 1. So we can substitute that in here. This effectively changes the sign of these terms. This gives us a check of negative 9 equal to negative 9 in both cases. So we could be confident knowing that our answers are correct. Let's look at another way to solve quadratic equations, this time we're going to use a method called completing the square we'll see this method again when we look at conic sections so be sure you get familiar with it. Let's start by reviewing the perfect square trinomial patterns, what numbers would fill in each of these blanks be sure to indicate the appropriate sign in each box as well. So here you use a plus or a minus symbol, and here you'll put the number. These were the missing signs and numbers for the perfect square trinomial patterns. Great work if you got all four of these correct. We know the first one needs to be positive 9, because this middle term is positive 18x. When we have the quantity a plus b squared, we know we'll get a squared plus 2ab plus b squared. So, this middle term is 2 times the multiplication of these two terms. Since we already have an x here, we know that we just need two times this number. So this number would have to be 9. We use similar reasoning to figure out the other three problems, and we just need to pay attention to what sign this is. This sign will indicate what sign we use in the parentheses. If it's a minus, we'll use minus. If it's a plus, we'll use plus. We're going to use our knowledge of perfect square trinomials to help us complete the square. To complete the square means to change a polynomial into a perfect square trinomial. Let's consider this polynomial, x squared plus 4x. Now, let's use some tiles to help us visualize this polynomial. Here, we have a square that measures x by x. So its area is x squared, and here, we have 4 x's. We know that this side is also x and this side is just one unit long. So, 1 times x equals x, the area of this tile. So, if we wanted to have a perfect square, how many one tiles do you think we needed to add here to do that? In other words, what number should we add to our polynomial in order to get a perfect square? We would need to add 4. If we added 4 then we would get a perfect square. We also know we can add 4 since 1 times 1 would equal 1 square here. We need 4 of these in total to get our perfect square. This trinomial is a perfect square since we can rewrite it as one. We can rewrite x squared plus 4x plus 4 as the quantity x plus 2 squared. In my head I'm picturing an actual square that has a side length of x plus 2, and another side length of x plus 2. This is why it's a perfect square. I can also see that my trinomial fits my perfect square pattern. We have a squared plus 2ab plus b squared. This means that we can rewrite a trinomial, as the quantity of a plus b squared. What do you think we would need to add to each of these polynomials to make a perfect square? You want to think about drawing out a diagram like we did before, and then seeing how many one pieces you will need to complete the square. And don't be fooled by these negative signs here. Even if the x term is negative, we'll still add a positive amount to complete the square. So, what do you think for each of these? Take some time to think about it, and good luck. We would need to add 9, 36, 4, and 25 to complete each of these squares. Great thinking if you found these numbers. For the first polynomial, we can think about having one block that's area is x squared, and then six other tiles that have an area of x. We take the 6x and we split three of the x's over here and three of the x's over here. So we'll have x squared plus six x's, and then we'll need to add at 9 one pieces to complete our perfect square. So, when thinking about completing the square, it's best if this b term is even. This allows us to split up the x's, so we have half of them here and half of them here. And then we can figure out how many one pieces we would need to add to complete our perfect square down here. For this first polynomial, it turns out that was 9. For the second one, we draw a similar figure as the one before, and we'll find out that we'll need to add 36 one tiles to complete the square. For this third polynomial, we said we had negative 4x here. So, we'll have our x squared like before, and then, we'll have negative 4 x's. So negative 2x and negative 2x, which makes negative 4x. So, if we were to lay out these tiles, we could see that we would need to add four more one pieces to complete the square. We know that this diagram also makes sense in terms of multiplication. We know x times x equals x squared, and x times negative 1 equals negative x. We have this negative x four times. Once here, once here, once here, and once here. And finally, for these 4 one pieces, we have a sidelength of negative 1 here and a sidelength of negative 1 here. So, negative 1 times negative 1 would equal a positive 1. We have this positive 1 four times, so we know we have to add 4 one tiles to complete our square. So when we complete the square we add enough 1 pieces in order to make a perfect square. So, we can think about rewriting our polynomial x squared plus 4x plus 4 as the quantity x plus 2 squared. We know that this trinomial can really be represented by a perfect square, with side lengths x plus 2, and x plus 2. We use our perfect square trinomial pattern to rewrite our trinomial as a perfect square. So, what do you think each of these trinomials would be written as a perfect square? Keep in mind when you enter your answer, you want to have something in parenthesis squared. Here are the four perfect squares. Great job if you got those correct. We know we can use the perfect square pattern to figure out how to write each expression. We can look at the last term and take the square root of it to figure out what should go inside the parentheses. Also, since our middle term here is positive, we note that the sign that we'll use over here will also be positive. And these last two cases, the sign here for the middle term was negative, which means that the sign on the b term would be negative and our answer. If you're ever in doubt if you have a perfect square, simply multiply out this to see if you get this trinomial. It should work. For these four examples, we were able to complete the square and turn each expression into a perfect square by adding a certain amount. The amount that we added in each case depended upon the b coefficient for the x term. In the first example, the b term was a 6 and we ended up having to add 9 to make a perfect square. In the second example, our b was 12 and we ended up adding 36 pieces to get a perfect square. In this third case, b was negative 4 and we added four pieces. And in the last case, b was negative 10 and we added 25. So, for any value of b, how much do you think we need to add in order to complete the square? In other words, see if you can look and find a pattern between these two numbers. How do we go from this b to the added amount? Now, you might think the answer would be b plus 3, but we know that can't be correct. Sure, if we add 3 here, we get 9. But if I added 3 to 12, I would get 15 and not 36. So, what expression could we write here that uses the letter b and gives us the appropriate value? The expression should work for each of the four cases. And be sure to take some time to think about it. This one's tough. If you get stuck, look for a hint in the instructor's comment. This one is really tough, so don't worry if you struggled. The expression we want is the quantity b divided by 2 squared. For this first example, our b was equal to 6. So if we do 6 divided by 2 and square it, we would get 9. In the second case, b was equal to 12. So, 12 divided by 2 squared would be 6 squared, which is 36, the amount that we should add. In the third case, we had b was negative 4. So negative 4 divided by 2 equals negative 2, and then, we square it to get positive 4. Notice that in each case, we always added a certain amount. This is because even if b is negative, we end up squaring this value, so that way it turns out positive. To complete the square, we'll always add a positive amount, no matter if the b term is negative. And this also works for our last example. The b was negative 10, so we'll write that here, then we divided by 2, which gives us negative 5, and we square it to get negative 25. This is the powerful expression that we need in order to complete the square. If you found the expression, and that's pretty amazing. Again, this is a really hard pattern to find and generate on your own. Let's see how we can use this to solve some quadratic equations by completing the square. Let's try using our knowledge of completing the square to solve this quadratic equation. Now, we want the left-hand side of the equation to contain a square so that we can take the square root of both sides. In other words, our goal is to make the left side look like a perfect square. And the right side to be some sort of number. Then, we could use our square root method that we learned before to continue solving. First, let's move this positive seven to the other side of the equation. We do this so we can start working towards getting a perfect square trinomial on the left. And a number on the right. Now that we're here, we want to add some amount to both sides of our equation. Remember, we can only perform the same operation to the left hand side of the equation and the right hand side of the equation, in order for our equation to remain balanced. So, what amount will we have to add here to complete the square? And since we add this amount here, remember, we'll add the same amount on the right. To get a perfect square on the left. We'll need to add the quantity b over 2 squared to both sides of the equation. Here, our value of b is positive 6. We take 6, and we divide it by 2 to get 3. And then finally, we square that quantity to get 9. The amount we need to add to both sides of our equation. So keep in mind our goal was to make the left hand side of the equation be a perfect square. So how do we write this left hand side, so it is a perfect square? What do you think goes here? This trinomial is the quantity x plus 3 squared. We get the sign and the number of the binomial from the value b divided by 2. This 3 winds up inside of our parentheses or our perfect square. Now this is also the perfect time to check your work. If you square this or if we multiply this out, we should wind up with this trinomial. We can quickly write this out to get a product of x squared plus 6x plus 9. You could also probably do this in your head. This is a great way to check to see if you went from this step, to this step correctly. Now that we've completed the square, we've actually reached our goal. We have a perfect square on the left, and a number on the right. This is an equation we know how to solve. We can simply take the square root of both sides, indicating the plus or minus here, and then solve for x. So you try finishing solving this equation. What would be the values for x? When you enter your answer, be sure to use the plus or minus symbol. Good luck. Our solutions are negative 3 plus the square root of 2, or negative 3 minus the square root of 2. Nice work for finding those two answers. We start by taking the square root of both sides of our equation. So we'll have x plus 3 on the left equal to plus or minus root 2 on the right. Then to isolate x or to solve for x, we'll subtract 3 from both sides to get x is equal to negative 3 plus or minus root 2. It's easiest to complete the square when solving a quadratic equation, if this quadratic is not factorable and if a is equal to 1 and b is even. We want b to be even because eventually we're going to add b over 2 squared to both sides of the equation. If b is even, then we know that this b over 2 squared ends up being an integer rather than a fraction. So, once we know a equals 1 and b is even. We can move this constant term to the other side of the equation. This will put the equation in this form. Next, we add b over 2 squared to both sides of our equation. This allows us to rewrite the left side as a perfect square. And then we can continue solving using our square root method. When solving the problems throughout this lesson. Use these steps as a guide to help you complete the square. Try solving this first practice problem. Move this negative 6 to the other side, and then complete the square and solve for x. Be sure you enter your answer using the plus or minus symbol. Good luck. Here, the solutions were 2 plus the square root of 10 or 2 minus the square root of 10. Nice work if you got these two answers. So first, we add 6 to both sides of our equation, so we can set up the left side to complete the square. To complete the square, we're going to add b over 2 squared to both sides of our equation. The b here is negative 4. So, b over 2 would be negative 2 and b over 2 squared would be positive 4. Now, we're ready to write the left-hand side as a perfect square. Since our b term is negative, we know we're going to need x minus a number. It turns out it's x minus 2. Now you can either get that by thinking about what binomial squared would give us this trinomial or you can just pull it from this b over 2. This is negative 2, so we use that in our binomial. Now that we have our perfect square, we take the square root of both sides of the equation and we add two do both sides of our equation to solve for x. And we know we can't simplify the swuare root of ten since there's not a perfect square that divides into ten evenly Try this second problem out. What do you think x would equal? Here the solutions are 4 plus or minus the square root of 13. Great work if you found those answers. Again, we start by moving this constant term to the right side of our equation. So, we have x square, minus 8x equals negative 3. Next, we want to add the same amount to both sides of our equation, so that we can complete the square. Our b is negative 8. So, b over 2 squared equals positive 16. We add that amount to both sides, and then we rewrite the left hand side of our equation using x minus 4 squared. Now that we have a perfect square, we take the square root of both sides. To get x minus 4 is equal to plus or minus root 13. We add four to both sides to get x by itself, so 1x is equal to 4 plus or minus the square root of 13. Here's a third problem on completing the square. What do you think that x could be in this equation? You'll want to use plus or minus in your answer, and be sure to simplify any radicals if you can. First, we want to add 4 to both sides to get this polynomial by itself. Now, we're in a position to complete the square. We know our b is positive 4. So, b divided by 2 equals 2. And b over 2 squared is equal to 4. This is the amount we need to add to both sides of our equation in order to complete the square. So, we'll have positive 8 on the right and then we'll have x plus 2 for our perfect square on the left. Keep in mind, this positive 2, comes from our b over 2 term. This is positive 2, so this is positive 2. Another way to find this number, is the take the square root of this term and use the sign for the b term. The square root of 4 is 2 and we use the positive sign, since this sign is also positive. Next, we take the square root of both sides of our equation, to get x plus 2 equals positive or negative, 2 root 2. Finally we subtract 2 from both sides, to get our two answers for x. Here's our fourth problem for completing the square. What values for x make this equation true? As a hint, this problem result in two imaginary solutions. Be careful when you simplify the negative square root. Good luck here. First, we subtract 12 from both sides to get x squared plus 6x equals negative 12. The b value is positive 6, so we need to add b over 2 squared, or 9, to both sides of our equation. This allows us to rewrite the left side as a perfect square. X plus 3 squared. The right side just simplifies to negative 3. Next we take the square root of both sides of the equation to get x plus 3 equals plus or minus the square root of negative 3. This square root simplifies to plus or minus i root 3. It's an imaginary root here, since this radicand is negative. Finally, we subtract 3 from both sides to get x is equal to negative 3 plus or minus i times root 3. Our final answers. Excellent work if you found these two imaginary solutions. Here's another problem for completing the square. What do you think are these solutions? Here the solutions for x are 4 plus or minus 2i times root 5. Fantastic work if you found those solutions. This one wasn't so simple. First we subtract 36 from both sides, to get this equation. Next, we complete the square by adding b over 2 squared to both sides. The b value is negative 8. So, that makes b over 2, negative 4. We square this number to get 16. Adding 16 to both sides of the equation, we get x minus 4 squared, this is our perfect square and negative 20 on the right. We take the square root of both sides of the equation, to get x minus 4 equals plus or minus the square root of negative 20. Then, we add 4 to both sides of the equation to get our solutions for x. We do need to do one more step. We need to simplify. The square root of negative 20 is going to be an imaginary number, since the radicand is negative. We can split up the square root of negative 20 into these three square roots. The square root of negative 1 is i, the square root of 4 is 2. And we can't take the square root of 5, so we leave it underneath the radical. These are our simplified solutions How about this problem, what do you think the solutions would be for x? Write your answer here using the plus or minus symbol if there are two solutions. Here are the solutions were 6 plus or minus the square root of 31. Great work if you found those two answers. We subtract 5 from both sides of the equation to get this. Next we identify the b so that way we can complete the square. The b value is negative 12, which means b over 2 is negative 6. And b over 2 squared is positive 36. We add this amount to both sides of our equations, so that way we can complete the square. We rewrite the left hand side as x minus 5 squared, and the right hand side as 31. Next, we take the square root of both sides of the equation to get x minus 6 equals plus or minus the square root of 31. And finally, we add 6 to both sides of the equation to get our final answers. Here, we can't simplify the square root of 31 since 31 is a prime number. The only factors of 31 are 31 and 1. Here's our seventh practice problem. What do you think are the solutions for x? Try your best, and be careful when simplifying your radical. Good luck. Here the answers were negative 3 plus or minus 5i, imaginary solutions. We start by simply completing the square, we have our x squared term here and our x term here. The b value is positive 6, so we find b over 2 which is 3 and then square this which is 9. We add 9 to both sides of our equation, so that way we can complete the square on this side. We rewrite our trinominal as the quantity x plus 3 squared, and then add these two together to get negative 25. We use our square root method to take the square root of both sides. So x plus 3 can equal positive or negative 5i. Keep in mind we have a negative radicant here, so the square root of 25 is 5 and the square root of negative 1 is i. And, finally, to solve for x, we simply subtract 3 from both sides to get our final answers. Here's our last practice problem on completing the square. Notice that here we don't have an a value of 1. We have an a value of 3. So, what do you think you could do to solve here? Try taking an additional step here first and then try completing the square. When you think you have it, write your answer here. Here the correct answers were 2 plus or minus i times root 6. That's amazing work if you got these answers correct. We want to start by dividing each term of our equation by 3. So dividing each of these by 3 we'll get x squared minus 4x plus 10 equals 0. Now we're in a position to complete the square. Our a term is one, and our b term is even. We subtract 10 from both sides to get x squared minus 4x equals negative 10. We complete the square by adding 4 to both sides of the equation. This gives us the quantity, x minus 2 squared equal to negative 6. Then, we take the square root of both sides of the equation to get x minus 2 equals positive or negative i root 6. We add 2 to both sides to solve for x. And these are the two solutions. Here are the methods we have learned so far to solve quadratic equations. We first started by reviewing factoring. Then we looked at the root method, and finally, we completed the square. Factoring is perhaps the easiest method if we can factor a quadratic equation. If we can't factor it, then we'll want to use one of these two approaches in order to get our solution. And if none of these three methods will work, we have one last method that will always work. That method is the quadratic formula. There are some advantages and disadvantages to this method. Let's see what they are. For any equation written in this form, we can find the solutions to it by doing negative b plus or minus the square root of b squared minus 4ac, all divided by 2a. This is our quadratic formula and it only requires that we know the values of a, b, and c. a is the coefficient of the x squared term, b is the coefficient of the x term, and c would be the constant term. I mentioned the pros and cons of this quadratic formula. Well, the pro is that it can solve any quadratic equation, so long as we have the a, b, and c, and the left-hand side is set equal to 0. We could also have the equation reversed, the left-hand side could be 0 and the right-hand side could be this. For the cons, it's actually very easy to make a sign error in two places. Here, we need to take the negative value of b, so if to change the sign. The other place that we might make a sign error is underneath the radical. b squared should always end up being a positive number, and then we have minus 4ac. Now, depending on the values of a and c, this second term might end up being positive or it might stay negative. You'll want to pay close attention to how many negative signs you have here to determine this number. And finally, another drawback to the quadratic formula is that we have to simplify. We'll need to simplify this radical. And then we'll also need to simplify this fraction if we can. Sometimes, this result will end up being the integers, and sometimes, it will end up being fractions. Keep in mind that we could get imaginary solutions if we have a negative radical here. When we use the quadratic formula, we want to be sure to use parenthesis. We want to use parenthesis around the values of b, a, and c. For this equation, the value of a is 3, the value of b is negative 4, and the value of c is negative 5. So these are the placeholders for the numbers a, b, and c. You should always do this when you start to solve a quadratic equation using the quadratic formula. This will prevent us from making any sign mistakes with negative b and the minus 4ac. So we plug in the value of b here and here, the value of a here and here, and the value of c here. Now that we've plugged in, it's time to simplify. You try simplifying this expression, and when you think you have your final answer, enter it here. You can either write your answer as two fractions with plus or minus in between them or you can enter in your answer as one giant fraction. The plus or minus symbol will be in the numerator. The answer is 2 plus or minus the square root of 19, all divided by 3, or we could list this as 2 3rds plus or minus root 19 divided by 3. Either way we write it, these two solutions are correct. We get these answers by first making the negative of b, so this will become positive 4. Negative 4 squared is 16, and these numbers multiplied together are positive 60. We have negative 4 times 3 times negative 5. Because two of these signs are negative, we wind up with a positive product. This is where I mentioned a sign error usually occurs. You want to watch out to see if you have an even number of negative signs or if you have an odd number of negative signs. We add 16 and 60 to get the square root of 76, and then, we simplify the square root by breaking it down to 4 times 19. The square root of 4 equals 2, and then, we can split up 6 into 2 times 3. This allows us to root a common factor 2 from each of the terms. We know 2 divides into 4 two times, and 2 divides into 2 one time. This leaves us with 2 plus or minus 1 root 19 in our numerator and positive 3 in our denominator. Try solving this quadratic equation using our quadratic formula. Write your final answer in this box and be sure to use your plus or minus sign. Good luck. Here, the final solutions are 3 plus or minus 3 times the square root of 2. Great work if you found those answers. The coefficient in front of this x squared term is a 1, since it's not listed. So, a equals 1, b equals negative 6, and c equals negative 9. We substitute the values of a, b, and c into our quadratic formula, being sure to use parenthesis around each of the values. So, we'll have positive 6 for the negative of b, we'll have 36 for squaring b, and then we'll have positive 36 for negative 4acC. Here, the denominator will just be 2, 2 times 1. We have 36 plus 36 in our radical, so really, that's 2 times 36. I leave it like this since I can take the square root of 36, which is 6. The 2 stays inside of our radical, and then we simplify it by dividing each of these terms, 2 into 6 equals 3 and 2 into 6 radical 2 is 3 radical 2. Another way to think about this is we could factor 2 from these two 6s, leaving us with this numerator. We cancel the common factors that reduce to 1, leaving us with 3 plus or minus 3 root 2, our final solutions. Try solving this quadratic equation for the values of r that make it true. Remember, you'll need to set this equation equal to 0 before you can use this quadratic formula. Notice too, that instead of having the variable x, we have the variable r. That's okay though, because it isn't the variable that makes something quadratic. It's the square on the variable. So try rearranging this equation, and then, write your final solutions here. Good luck. Here, the solutions are 2 plus or minus root 3, all divided by 2. Fantastic work if you figured this one out. We begin to solve by moving this 8r term and this negative 1 to the left-hand side of the equation. So we subtract 8r from both sides, and then, we add positive 1 to both sides as well. Now that we have our quadratic equation set equal to 0, we can use the values of a, b, and c inside of our quadratic equation. a is equal to 4, b is equal to negative 8, and c is equal to positive 1. We substitute these values using parenthesis around each one. The negative of negative 8 is positive 8, negative 8 squared is positive 64, and these three factors give us a product of negative 16. Here, the denominator just simplifies to 8. We subtract inside our radical to get 8 plus or minus the square root of 48, all divided by 8. Next, we want to simplify this radical by splitting it up into 16 times 3. The square root of 16 equals 4, and then we can factor a 4 from our numerator to get 4 times 2 plus or minus 1 root 3. Since a factor of 4 appears in the numerator and in the denominator, we simplify one last time to get 2 plus or minus 1 root 3, all divided by 2. You might have also split this up into two separate fractions and had 2 divided by 2 plus or minus root 3 divided by 2. Of course, this 2 divided by 2 simply reduces to 1. So these would have also been acceptable answers, 1 plus or minus root 3 divided by 2. Try finding the solutions to this fourth quadratic equation. This time our variable is z. What do you think z could equal? The solutions for this equation were 2 plus or minus i. Great work if you found these. We start by identifying the variables or the coefficients, a, b, and c. a equals positive 1, b equals negative 4, and c equals positive 5. We plug these into our quadratic formula using parentheses around each of the variables. Here, we'll have the negative of negative 4, which is positive 4. Here, we'll have negative 4 squared, which is 16. And these three factors will give us a product of negative 20. Our denominator will be 2 from this product. And then, we simplify our radical to get the square root of negative 4. The square root of negative 4 is 2i, and then we can factor a 2 from our numerator. So we can simplify one last time. 2 divided by 2 equals 1, and we're left with 2 plus or minus i. Try using the quadratic formula on this equation. What do you think x would be here? Here, the correct answers were 1 plus or minus root 3, all divided by 2. You may have listed your answer as 1 half plus or minus root 3 divided by 2. These would be correct as well. To solve this equation, we need to first start by setting it equal to 0. So we'll subtract 1 from both sides. We identify a, b, and c using the coefficients in front of each term. a is positive 2, b is negative 2, and c is negative 1. We do the negative of b, which would be positive 2, and then, plus or minus b squared minus 4ac, all divided by 2a. We simplify our answer by cleaning up this radical to get 2 plus or minus root 4 plus 8, all divided by 4. Negative 2 squared is 4 here. And negative 4 times 2 times negative 1 is positive 8. This radical simplifies to root 12, which is 2 times root 3. These two terms share a common factor of 2, so we can rewrite our numerator as 2 times 1 plus or minus 1 root 3. We notice that the numerator and denominator share a common factor of 2, so we simplify that to 1, leaving us with this expression. Now that we've seen a lot of different types of quadratic equations and how to solve them. I want you to choose the best method in each of the following problems. So, try solving this quadratic equation either by factoring, completing the square, using the root method or the quadratic formula which we just saw. Now here, completing the square would not be the best option. Our a value is 3 and the b value is odd. For completing the square, we want an a value of 1 and a b value that's even. So try one of the other methods and see what you get. For this one, you can enter your answer separated by a comma or you can use the plus or minus symbol. Good luck. For this quadratic equation, it's best to factor. We know we can factor since there are two factors that multiply to negative 12 and sum to negative 1. Those factors are negative 4 and positive 3. So we can use these as coefficients to rewrite the middle term, and then use factoring by grouping to continue to solve. We set each factor equal to 0, so x could equal negative 1 or x could equal positive 4 3rds. Amazing work if you found these two solutions. Try tackling this equation. When you think you have the answers, enter them here, separated by a comma, or use the plus or minus sign. Good luck. The solutions for this equation are x equals 3 plus or minus root 7 all divide by 2. Fantastic work if you found these solutions. I know they were tough. You might have tried factoring here, but it turns out that we can't. For factoring, we would have had to find factors of positive 2 that summed to negative 6. But we know the only factor pairs are positive 2 and positive 1, and negative 2 and negative 1. Now that are those pairs summed to negative 6, so we can't use factoring. We also can't use the root method here. We don't have a perfect square on one side of the equation. Completing the square would also not work, since our a value is positive 2. You would want the a value to be positive 1 and the b value to be even in order to complete the square. So, using this quadratic formula, we have a equal to 2, b equal to negative 6, and c equal to positive 1. We plug the values of a, b, and c into their positions to get this expression. The root of 36 minus 8 is the root of 28, and we know we can simplify this root into 2 root 7. Next, we factor a 2 from the numerator, leaving us with this expression. We cancel the common factor of 2, that appears in the numerator and in the denominator, which leaves us with our most simplified form, our answers. We factor a 2 from these two terms to get this expression. Then, we cancel the common factor of 2 and then the numerator and the denominator to get our final answers. Here's your third problem. Try finding the solutions to this one and write your answers here. Here, the solutions are 5 plus or minus root 6, all divided by 2. Amazing work if you got these answers. Here, we want to use the square root method since we have a perfect square on one side of our equation. We square root both sides, indicating the plus or minus on the right. So we'll have 2x minus 5 equals plus or minus root 6. We add 5 to both sides to isolate 2x, and then we divide both sides by 2 to get 1x is equal to 5 halves plus or minus root 6 divided by 2. We can leave our answers separated as two fractions or add and subtract them together to leave them like this. Here's our last problem for choosing your own method. What do you think would be the best way to solve this equation? Maybe try even solving it two different ways to see if you come up with the same solutions. And what are the solutions? Write them here. Here, I think it's easiest to complete the square. And it turns out when we solve to complete the square, we get the answers, negative 5 plus or minus root 22. Great thinking if you got these answers. Keep in mind that you could have also used the quadratic formula to solve this equation. But since the a here is one and RB is even, I think it's easiest to complete the square. We subtract 3 from both sides, in order to get x squared plus 10x alone on the left-hand side of the equation. Now, we can complete our square. We add b over 2 squared to both sides, which is 25. Now that we've added 25 to both sides, we can rewrite the left side as the quantity x plus 5 squared. The right hand side just simplifies to 22. We take the square root of both sides of the equation to get x plus 5 equals positive or negative root 22. Then, to isolate x, we simply subtract 5 to get our final answers. Throughout this unit, we've been working with quadratic equations. Now, let's check out quadratic inequalities. A quadratic inequality looks a lot like a quadratic equation, except instead of an equal sign, we'll either have a greater than symbol, a less than symbol, a less than or equal to symbol, or a greater than or equal to sign. When we solve a quadratic inequality, we want to find all the values of x that make this statement true. In this case, we want any x value. So that way, when we evaluate this side, it's greater than 0. Now, we have an inequality here. So we know there's going to be more than one solution. In fact, there's going to be an infinite number of solutions. So to find the range of all possible values, let's start by finding which x values make this statement equal to 0. So, what two values of x make this statement equal 0. Write the smaller number here and the larger one here. The smaller number is negative 3, and the larger number is positive 4. Nice work, if you found these two answers. To find these two answers, we simply want to factor this side of the equation, and then set each factor equal to 0. When we factor here, we want to find factors of negative 12 that sum to negative 1. Those factors are negative 4 and positive 3. Next, we set each factor equal to 0, and then solve for our two values of x. We know the values of 4 and negative 3 would make this left-hand side equal to 0. We can use these two values of x equals 4 and x equals negative 3 to create three separate intervals on a number line. These three intervals may contain the numbers that are solutions to our quadratic inequality. For example, all of the numbers to the left of negative 3 will either make this statement positive or negative. We can use a test point within this interval or a test value to find out. For example, I could use the value x equals negative 4 to determine whether or not this left side is positive or negative. We want this side to be greater than 0. So, when I plug in negative 4, I would want this to be a positive number. If that's the case, then every number from negative 3 and to the left will make this statement positive, which means we include it in our solution set. So, rewriting my original inequality here, I can plug in the value of negative 4 in for x. When we evaluate this, we'll get 8 is greater than 0. We know the statement is true, so we know all the values less than negative 3 are solutions to our original inequality. If you're in disbelief that all the other numbers in here work, then try plugging in negative 5 or something like negative 10 in for the value of x. You should wind up with a positive number on this side. Here, I've gone ahead and shown you another check for x equals negative 8. If we use this value at interval I, we'll wind up with a statement 60 greater than 0. We know this is true, so again, this is part of our solution set. We don't need to test every value in interval I, we only needed to test one of them. You try testing interval II and interval III. Pick one value for x in this region and in this region. Plug them into your original inequality, and see if you come out with a true statement. If true, then that interval is part of the solution. If false, then that interval will not be part of our solution. Also, as a hint, think of an easy value to plug in that's between negative 3 and positive 4. What do you think is the easiest value to use in between these two numbers? It turns out that interval II is false and interval III is true. Let's see why. I think for the second interval, the easiest number to check would be x equals 0. If we let x equals 0, then we know that we'll have negative 12 is greater than 0. We know this is a false statement. So, this means that none of the values between negative 3 and positive 4 would satisfy our original inequality. We would exclude these values from our solution set. For interval III, I'm going to choose the number x equals 5. Now, you could have chosen any number, like six, eight, ten, even 14. You just want to choose one number to test in this interval to see if it makes our inequality statement true. So plug in x equal 5. I get the statement 8 is greater than 0. I know this is true, which means that all of these numbers satisfy our original condition. Great work if you found this to be false and this interval to be true. For quadratic inequalities, we can show the solution in one of two ways. On a number line, we know that these values satisfy the inequality and these values do as well. We use parentheses at x equals negative 3 and x equals, 4 since we know these numbers make the equation equal to 0. These two numbers would not be part of the solution set. The other way we can write our solution set is in interval notation. Keep in mind, since we have two non-overlapping regions, we'll need to use the union symbol in between the two intervals. What I want you to do is to fill in each of these boxes using the correct interval notation. Be sure to use parenthesis or brackets and include the infinity symbol or the numbers as necessary. Good luck. For the first interval, we would have a negative infinity to negative three. We use parentheses on each end, since we don't include these values. The right-hand side would be four comma infinity. This would be the second interval. Be sure to include parentheses here, because we can't include these two values. Nice work if you remembered interval notation. And, just to be even more certain that we're right, we can choose any number in either of these intervals, and they should check in our inequality. So, if I chose x equals 12, I know that's between 4 and positive infinity. So I could plug in 12 for x, and then I would get the value 120. We know 120 is greater than 0, which means that this statement is true. This quick check just reinforces that we have the correct intervals on either side. It's usually a good idea to test a couple numbers to make sure that you have the correct interval. Now that you've seen one, let's see if you have the hang of it. Try finding the solution set for this inequality and write the solution in interval notation here. As a hint, this solution will be a union, just like the last problem. We'll have two different regions. For this inequality, the interval would be negative infinity to negative 3, union 2 to positive infinity. Great solving if you found those two regions. When we find the solution set for a quadratic inequality, we first want to start by finding the zeros. These are the x values that make the equation equal to 0. We factor this quadratic using x plus 3 times x minus 2 as the factors, then we set each factor to equal to 0 to get x equals negative 3 and x equals positive 2. We use these x values to set up our three intervals, so we know the values of x might be less than negative 3, between negative 3 and 2, or greater than 2. These different regions are the possible solutions to our inequality. We test the value in the first interval to see if it makes the inequality true. I'm going to choose the value x equals negative 4. Plugging in negative 4 for x, we'll get 6 is greater than 0, which we know is a true statement. This means, any value less than negative 3 will make this inequality true. And notice, we've already got our first interval. Negative infinity to negative 3, here. We need to test the value now for interval II. I'll use x equals 0, since that's pretty easy to plug in and evaluate. If x is equal to 0, then these two terms would drop out. They would just be 0. And we'd be left with negative 6 is greater than 0. We know this statement is not true. So this region is false. We exclude it from our solution set. And finally, we try a different value of x for our third interval. I'll use x equals 3. When we plug in x equals 3, here and here, we'll get the statement 6 is greater than 0. This is true. This means any value greater than 2 will satisfy our original inequality. And notice we have our second region. From 2 all the way up to positive infinity. If you're acing these problems, then great work. I don't think they're the easiest, so let's try one more problem broken down into parts just like the first one. For this quadratic inequality, I want you to tell me the 0s first. Find the values of m that would make this left side equal to zero. Write the lesser value for m here, and the greater value for m here. Great work if you found negative 2 3rds and positive 5. You've really got your factoring down. We begin factoring this by finding the factors of negative 30 that sum to negative 13. We use these two factors to rewrite the middle term, negative 13m. Then, we use factoring by grouping to get 3m plus 2 times m minus 5 equals 0. Then, we set each factor equal to 0 and solve for the values of m. So m could equal negative 2 3rds or m could equal positive 5. Now that we know the 0s are negative 2 3rds and positive 5, we can set up our three intervals on our number line. Now, I want you to test each of these intervals to determine which ones are part of the solution set. Again, if you plug in a value in this region and the statement winds up being true, then we include this as part of our solution set. If the statement turns out to be false, then we exclude the interval from the solution set. Here, the only values of m that make the inequality true are in interval II. The numbers between negative 2 3rds and positive 5. In the first interval, we can test the number that's less than negative 2 3rds. Well, negative 1 is less than negative 2 3rds. We know this since negative 1 can be rewritten as negative 3 3rds. We want to plug in negative 1 instead of negative 3 3rds, since it's easier to work with an integer than it is with a fraction. Substituting the value of negative 1, m for m. We get the inequality statement that 6 is less than or equal to 0. We know this isn't true, so interval I is false. Next, we want to test the value in interval II. I think the easiest value to test in this region would be 0. When we plug in 0 for m, we lose these two terms to get negative 10 is less than or equal to 0, which we know is true. So yes, these values can be included in our solution set. And finally, we test a number in interval III. I'm going to use the number 6. You could of course use other numbers, 10 would have been another great one to use. Plugging in 6 in for m will get the inequality 20 is less than or equal to 0. This isn't true, so we know that this part is not included in our solution set. So now that we know that these x values make our original inequality true, what is the solution set written in interval notation? You'll want to write your answer here, and think about whether you need to use brackets or parenthesis. Our interval would be negative 2 3rds, positive 5. We know we can use brackets on the ends here since negative 2 3rd and 5 make this left-hand side equal to 0. Since this is a less than or equal to symbol, we get to include these two values. So here's our answer written in interval notation And here's our answer written on a number line. Now that we've done one together, I want you to try this one on your own. Notice how we have a constant term on this side of inequality. Well, we really don't want this over here. We want to set our quadratic equal to 0 first. What do you think you'll need to do first in order to get started? Once you've gotten that first step, I want you to try and solve for all the possible solutions. Write your answer as a solution set in interval notation here. And good luck. Here, the possible solutions for p are between negative 2 3rds and positive 1 3rd. Now, that's amazing problem solving if you got this one correct. To start this problem, we want to subtract 2 from both sides of the inequality. This gives us a quadratic expression on the left and zero on the right. Now, we want to find the 0s or the values of p that make this quadratic expression equal to 0. We find factors of negative 18 that summed to positive 3. Those two factors are positive 6 and negative 3, and we use them to rewrite the middle term of plus 3p. Using factoring by grouping, we get the factors 3p plus 2 and 3p minus 1. Next, we set each factor equal to zero, and then we solve for the values of p, so p could equal negative 2 3rds or p could equal positive 1 3rd. Next, we use our two zero ro values to create three different intervals. And now, it's just a matter of testing each one to see which ones are part of the solution. For the first interval, we'll plug in p is equal to negative 1. When we plug in this value for p, we'll get this statement, 4 is less than 0. We know this statement is not true, so we exclude this interval from our solution set. For the second interval, we'll test the value of zero. We know zeros in between these two fractions, since one of them is negative and the other one is positive. When we plug in p equals 0, we get the statement negative 2 is less than 0. This is definitely true, so this part is part of our solution set. For the third interval, we'll test p equals 1 and we'll get the statement 10 is less than 0. We know this is false, so this is not part of our solution, which leaves us with this interval only. Any value between negative 2 3rds and positive 1 3rd will make our original inequality true. We also use parentheses here and in our interval notation since this is just a less than than symbol. We can't be equal to zero. Try finding the solution to this inequality. What do you think the values of p could be? As a hint, you'll need a union to find both the intervals that work for this inequality. Here, the ranges were from negative infinity to negative 5, with the union of negative 1 to positive infinity. Great work if you found these two intervals. First, we want to find the values of p that make this equation true. We factor to find the series of p and we get p is equal to negative 5, and p is equal to negative 1. We use the values of negative 5 and negative 1 to create the three intervals on our number line. For the first interval, I'm going to test the value of negative 10. When I plug in at negative 10 for p, I'll get the statement 45 is greater than 0. I know this is true so I can include it, this part or this interval, in my solution set. For interval II, I'll plug in the value p equals negative 3. When we substitute this value in, we get the inequality negative 4 is greater than 0. We know this is not true, so we can include this interval in our solution set. And finally, for the third interval, we'll use the value p equals zero. If p equals zero, we lose these two terms and are left with a statement 5 is greater than zero, which we know is true. We'll use parentheses at negative 5 and negative 1, since we don't have the or equal to symbol here. So any value, from negative infinity to negative 5 or any value from negative 1 to positive infinity will satisfy our original inequality. Here's our answer on a number line, and here's our answer written in interval notation. Here's a second practice problem on quadratic inequalities. When you think you have the answer, write it in interval notation here. Good luck. Our interval would be from negative 4 to positive 2. x could actually equal negative 4 and positive 2 in this case, and any value in between them. Great solving if you found this interval. To begin solving this inequality, we want to subtract 8 from both sides. This allows us to set this quadratic expression less than or equal to 0. Now, we can rewrite this as an equation and find the 0s or the x values that make this equal to 0. We factor the quadratic expression, and then we set each factor equal to 0 to get x could equal negative 4 or x could equal positive 2. We use these to create the three separate intervals on our number line. Next, we want to test a value in each of the intervals. For the first interval, we'll test the value x equals negative 5. So plugging in the value of negative 5 in for x, we'll get the statement 7 is less than or equal to 0. Now, this of course, isn't true, so this interval is false. It's not part of our solution. For the second interval, we can test x equal 0. If x equals 0, we lose these two terms and we're left with negative 8 is less than or equal to 0. This, we know is true, so this part is included in our answer. And finally, for the third interval, if we test x is equal to 3, we'll get the statement 7 is less than or equal to 0. Again, we know this isn't true, so this region is out. So the values of x that satisfy our inequality are between negative 4 and 2. We include negative 4 and 2, since we have the or equal to symbol here. Since we know both of these values are 0s to the quadratic equation. I hope you're starting to see all sorts of patterns when you solve these types of problems. Here's our third problem on solving quadratic inequalities. What do you think would be the solution set here? Again, for this problem here, we have a union. So you should have two intervals. When you think you have the values of y, that make this inequality true, type your intervals in here. Good luck. Here, the solution was negative infinite to negative 3 or 1 half to positive infinity. Nice algebra skills if you got these two integrals. To begin to solve this quadratic inequality, we want to subtract 3 from both sides. So we have 0 on the left and the quadratic expression on the right. We can flip the entire inequality around, so we'll have 2y squared plus 5y minus 3 is greater than 0. These two statements here are exactly the same. They're just written in the reverse order. Once we have this inequality, we want to find the 0s. If we find the 0s, we can set up our number line with three intervals. So we'll factor the left-hand side of the equation to get 2y minus 1 times y plus 3. We set each factor equal to 0 and we solve for the values of y over here. In this case, y could equal 1 half, and in this case, y could equal negative 3. We use positive 1 half and negative 3 to create the intervals on our number line. For interval I, we'll try the number y equals negative 5. When we substitute negative 5 in for y, we'll get the statement 22 is greater than 0. We know this is true, so this is included for our solution set. For interval II, we'll try the number y equals 0. When we plug in 0 for y, we'll be left with negative 3 greater than 0. We know this is not true, so any of these numbers within this region are not part of our solution. And finally, for the third interval, we can try the number y equals 1. When we plug in 1 for y, we'll get 4 greater than 0. This is a true statement, so we can include these values as part of our solution set. We use parentheses at negative 3 and positive 1 half, since we need to be greater than 0, we can't be equal to it. So our final solution is negative infinity to negative 3 or 1 half to positive infinity. Here's a fourth problem on quadratic inequalities. What do you think the solution would be here? Write the solution set in interval notation, and be sure to use the appropriate bracket or parenthesis. The values of x that satisfy this inequality are from negative 5 halves to positive 3. Great work if you found this interval. As usual, we begin by finding the 0s for this quadratic equation. We set this quadratic expression equal to 0, and then factor it, and set each factor equal to 0. So we'll have 2x plus 5 equal 0 and x minus 3 equals 0. When we solve for the values of x, we see that x can equal negative 5 halves or x can equal 3. We'll use the values of negative 5 halves in positive 3 to set up our three intervals on our number line. These two values make this left side of our inequality equal to 0. So, we want to test other values, so that way, this left-hand side is less than 0. If we let x equal negative 5 in interval I, we get the statement 40 is less than 0. We know this is not true, so this interval or this region is out. No values in here satisfy our inequality. For the second interval, we'll test the value of 0, since that's in between negative 5 halves and positive 3. If x equals 0, we plug it in and we get the statement that negative 15 is less than 0. Well, this is true, so this part is part of the solution set. And finally, for our third interval, we just need to test a number greater than 3. If I let x equal 5, I get the statement 30 is less than 0. This is not true, so again, this part is out of my solution set. These are the only values that make the inequality true. We use parentheses at negative 5 halves and positive 3, since we can't equal 0. We must be less than 0. Again, fantastic work if you got most of that solution correct. These are tough. How about this fifth problem? What do you think would be the solutions for x? Any value greater than or equal to negative 2 3rds, but less than or equal to 1 half would be correct. Fantastic algebra work for getting this one correct. We start solving this inequality by rewriting it as an equation. We factor this expression to get 3x plus 2 times 2x minus 1. Now we're ready to set each of these factors equal to 0 and solve for our values of x. Here, the 0s are the values that make this equation equal 0, our x equals negative 2 3rds and x equals 1 half. We use the values of x that make this statement equal to 0, instead of three intervals on our number line. Next, we want to test each interval and we'll start here. We'll let x equal negative 1 to get the statement 3 is less than or equal to 0. We know this isn't true, so our first interval is out. If we try a value between negative 2 3rds and 1 half, like 0, we wind up with a true statement. This means any number in this region will be a part of our solution. Finally, we test a number in the interval III, like 1, to get a false statement. We know this isn't true, so this interval is out of our solution set as well. We can use brackets at negative 2 3rds and positive 1 half, since we can be equal to 0. So these numbers on the number line would work for our inequality and this would be the set in interval notation.