 Grant is still at the Udacity Glasses Expo. And to get people more excited about his family of glasses wiper products, he's decided to add a game to his booth. Anyone who wins the game gets a free pair of deluxe glasses wipers, the ones with the awesome curlicues on them. The game is pretty simple. The person playing uses this giant slingshot that Grant built to try to get a ball through a hoop that's attached way up high on the ceiling. Grant has another idea of a way to soup up his booth though. The game isn't quite enough for him. A gigantic sign with his brand name on it. That way no one will ever forget what his company is called. The question is, where should he hang it? He needs to make sure that it doesn't get in the way of shots from the slingshot that would otherwise have gone through the hoop. He's decided that the best way to solve the slingshot sign problem is to use math. If he can come up with an equation describing the trajectory of a ball that makes it through the hoop, he'll be able to find every single point that the ball has to pass through to get there. And this will tell him exactly where not to hang his lovely new sign. If we call the horizontal position of the ball at any given time x, and we call its vertical position at the same time y, then here's a list of the x and y values of the ball at different points throughout its trajectory. If we think of the space above the ground at Grant's display booth as an x y coordinate plane, where x is horizontal and y is vertical, then these are just the points that the ball passes through on its way to the hoop. Looking at the coordinates of these points, do you think that we can find a linear equation that goes through all them? Please answer yes or no. No, we can't. So what on earth do we do now? Pretty much all of the equations we've dealt with in the course so far, we've been able to put in the standard form for a linear equation. I guess we're going to have to come up with some new kind of equation. Maybe we'll get some ideas about what to do about these points if we graph them. That might help us move a little bit closer to an equation. So which of these graphs on the coordinate plane right here matches the coordinates in the x y table over here? Please select the letter next to the graph that you think contains all of these points. The answer is graph E, this reddish curve right here. We can see that it goes to the point 4, 0, the point 16, 18, and the point 28, 0. All of the other graphs on here go through at least one of these points, but none of the others goes through all three. And in fact, remembering that this curve is supposed to be the trajectory or the path that Grant's ball takes through the air, the curve really should look like this. The point down here, 4, 0, is where the ball leaves the slingshot. The point at the top of the curve is where it goes through the hoop. And the point down here is where it lands on the ground. Now that we have a graph that fits the three points we knew were part of the ball's path, the next question is what kind of equation fits with this graph? Here are a few options for you. Which of these equations do you think might work? Just a hint. Pick a few points on this parabola, and then check and see if all three of them satisfy any of these equations. The answer is y equals negative x squared over 8 plus 4x minus 14. This is the only equation that is satisfied by all three of the sets of coordinates that we saw in our x y table before. And it's the only equation of these equations that will fit any point that we pick along this path. Since every point along the curve satisfies this equation, this must be the equation that produces this curve. Now that's great, except that this equation and this graph both look really different from anything we've played with before. It looks like we've got some exploring to do. Even though this parabola looks really different from the graphs of linear equations we've been playing around with recently, we actually know a fair amount about it. Start off by telling me the x-coordinates at the point where the curve intersects the x-axis or the x-coordinates of the x-intercepts. There should be two of them. The x-intercepts of this graph are at 4, 0 and 28, 0. So the two numbers we need for the x-coordinates are 4 and 28. Next, what is the y-intercept of this graph? You may notice that it's not actually shown here because I cut the graph off above where it is. But you can figure this out based on the equation alone. Remember what you know about the coordinates of the y-intercept from the fact that it has to lie along the y-axis. The y-intercept is at 0, negative 14. We know that the x-coordinate has to be 0 because the y-intercept is where this curve hits the y-axis, and the y-axis is just the line x equals 0. If we substitute 0 in for x in this equation, these two terms both turn into 0, and we end up with y equals negative 14. So that's the y-coordinate. How about the highest point on the graph? What are the coordinates of that? The highest point on the graph is right here where Grant's ball is going to go through the hoop. Looking at our graph, it looks like that point is at sixteen, eighteen. This point that lies halfway along the parabola, which we can think of kind of cutting the parabola in half, and which in this case is the peak of the curve, is known as the vertex. We'll talk a lot more about this in a little bit. So now we've seen several curves that look like this and several equations that have forms similar to this one. So it's important that we talk about what each of these really are. This kind of curve is called a parabola, and a parabola is a curve that's produced by equations that have certain features. So let's talk about what those features are. The equation that produces any parabola can be written in what's called the standard form for the equation of a parabola, y equals Ax squared plus Bx plus C. Now in this equation, A, B, and C are all constants, and there's one more important restriction. A, this first coefficient, is not allowed to be equal to 0. But why not? That is what I would like you to tell me in this quiz. Why do you think A can't equal 0? If that happened, would that stretch the parabola? Would it shift the parabola? Would it flip the parabola upside down? Would the graph, instead of a parabola, become a vertical line? Would it be a straight line instead? Or would the graph completely disappear? Pick the explanation down here that you think is the best choice. The answer is that the graph would become a straight line if the coefficient a equaled zero. If we substitute zero in the place of a, then this entire first term becomes zero since zero times anything is zero. Then we would just be left with y equals Bx plus c. We can recognize this as the slope intercept form. Of the equation of the line. Where B here is serving as the slope, and C is serving as the Y coordinate of the Y intercept. Considering the general form that you just saw, which of these four equations graph parabolas? There might be more than one that does, so check as many as you want. These three equations all graph parabolas. Even though they might not quite look like it right now. With a little bit of rearranging though, all of these can be put into that general form for the equation of a parabola. Which you'll remember, is y equals a x squared plus b x plus c, where a is not equal to zero. Now this first equation, 3 x squared plus 3 x minus 7 equals zero, does not contain a y variable. The only variable it has is x. So this is just an equation that we can solve for x. But it's not something that we can plot. There's no information here about y that would let us graph on a coordinate plane. Or at least, not on the kind of coordinate plane that we've been interested in. With two variables. This equation actually already is in standard form. The y just happens to be on the right side, and the other expression on the left side. But you can see that A, equals negative 1. B, the second coefficient is 5, and C is negative 6. This one is also in standard form. We have A equals 1, B equals 0, and C equals 1. However, the only requirement we have, about general form Was that a couldn't be 0. Either of the other two constants can be and will still get a parabola, I'll show you the graphs for all of these in a second. But first let's look at this last equation briefly. The only thing that is preventing it from being in this general form is the negative sign in front of the y. If we just multiplied both sides of the equation, by negative 1 and rearrange the terms on the right hand side, we end up with an equation of a parabola in the form of. We can recognize. Y equals X squared minus 2X plus 1. Now let's pick up these graphs. This third parabola down here is produced by tehe equation y equals negative x squared plus 5X minus 6. This purple corresponds to Y equals X squared plus one. And the orangeish yellow one of y equals x squared minus 2x plus 1. Now just take a second here and think about what's different about these graphs and what's different about their equations. Just form some ideas in your head and keep them in mind for later. We'll keep revisiting a lot of different kinds of parabolas. And of course the differences in their equations that produce them. So here's a second set of equations. And I'd like you to answer the same question. Which ones of these graph parabolas? Only these two graph parabolas. Which might surprise you. In particular, this equation, y equals x squared plus 2 xy plus 1 does not graph a parabola. Even though there is a x squared term, there's also this term 2 xy. Looking back at the general form, we don't see any terms here that have both x and y in them multiplied together, so this does not fit the bill. We'll see this graph in just a second. And, of course, you'll recognize this graph as a straight line. This is linear. Think to yourself what the slope is and what the y-coordinate or the y-intercept is. This last answer may also have been a little bit tricky for you. I know that right now this doesn't look at all, like this general form equation of a parabola. But if we distributed multiplication by what's in this first set of parenthesis towards on the second one, we get something pretty interesting. In fact, let's look at the graphs for all four of these right now. So here are the graphs for all 4 of the equations we just looked at. This funny red curve, which has a big break in the middle, is the graph that corresponds to the equation that we've never seen anything like before. Y equals x squared plus 2 xy plus 1. How funny that this isn't even in one piece. This is called a hyperbola. We're not really going to deal with them much. But it's important to recognize that having a term like xy makes an equation no longer equation of a parabola. This solitary straight line is of course y equals 5 x plus 7. The yellow curve, is the parabola y equals 3 x squared plus 2 x. And this last curve left, this big blue arc, is y equals negative 1 8th, x minus 4, times x minus 24. Because if you multiplied out all of the terms inside here, we'd end up with a term with an x squared in it, as the only term of degree 2. And it does, indeed, graph a parabola. Now that we know what parabolas look like, it's time to talk about how to actually draw them. I mean, what you do with your hand to make them appear. First things first, let's pick an equation to experiment with graphing with. I want to use y equals x squared minus 2x minus 3. Just like with linear equations, for quadratics we can use x y tables to come up with a bunch of points that should lie on any given line or curve. In fact for quadratics, since we're graphing these fancy curve parabolas, I find it's much easier for me if I write down a bunch of points. When you're drawing a line, you really only need to mark two points and then connect them together. So I'm going to use these points to graph this curve right now. I'll of course label my axes. Here I'm just going to use a scale of 1 for each grid mark. Wonderful. Now that I have all of these points marked, I can start sketching a line that looks like it'll connect all of them. I like to start at the vertex, at this lowest point in this case, and then moved in a curved way up to the next point to the left. Definitely takes practice to get your hand to move smoothly like you want it to, but there, that's not too bad. Moving to the right is usually a little bit harder for me. Takes a bit more sketching. So you can see I am doing little strokes to make sure I'm moving my pen in the direction I really want the line to go. Now it's a half a sort of rough sketch. I can go over it to make it smoother. And voila, we have a parabola. A few minutes ago, I showed you the graph of y equals negative 1 8th times x minus 4 times x minus 24. Now this time I've graphed a graph that looks pretty similar to that. I just changed this to a 28 instead. Anyway I'd like you to inspect this graph that we have now. Now while your'e looking at this graph, I'd like you to think back to the first parabola we dealt with in this lesson. Y equals negative x squared over 8, plus 4 x, X minus 14. Remember, this was the curve that we were using to describe how the ball would fly out of the slingshot and go through the hoop at Grant's display booth. For this quadratic equation, we found it's y-intercept, it's x-intercepts and it's maximum, as these points right here. Take a second and compare these points to this graph, and then think about how these equations might be connected. Here are a few different options for how these two equations might be connected to one another. And I'd like you to pick all of the ones that apply. Is there no connection between them at all? Do their graphs share a few points? Do their graphs go through all of the same point? Do they graph the same curve? Or are the equations equivalent to one another? The last three choices are correct, and they're all really saying the same thing. If two equations are equivalent to one another, then they have all the same solutions. And if they have all the same solutions, and if they have all the same solutions, then they graph all the same points, which means they graph exactly the same curve. So these two equations give us two different ways of expressing the exact same curve. But considering this one with the parentheses might not look quite as pretty as this other one, why would we ever want to use the second form? Well, from it we can actually find out some information about the curve before we even graph it. If I label this first form of the equation 1 and this second form of the equation 2, then what does equation 2 automatically tell us about that we can't see right off the bat with equation 1? Thinking about the curve that it graphs, this parabola over here, can we learn very quickly about the maximum or minimum, about the x-intercepts, or about the y-intercept from equation 2? Right here in the equation with the 4 and the 28, we can see the x-coordinates of the two x-intercepts on this graph appear subtracted from x, and the two factors that are multiplied together. Interesting. Keep this in mind as we move forward. We looked at solving linear equations graphically. We looked at the intersection of two lines. And we know that the values of the coordinates, of those points of intersection, would satisfy, either equation passing through that point. So we're considering, the x intercepts, of our lovely parabola, that we now have two equivelent equations for. What lines do we need to think about intersecting, at either one of these points? I'll give you a hint, that it's the same two equations at each point. And if you decide that this parabola is one of the lines that you should use, then it doesn't matter if you write the equation in this form, or in this form. Fill in the rest of these two equations right here, that we are interested in. The x-intercepts are the points where the graph of our parabola, whose equation is y equals negative x squared over 8 plus 4x minus 14, or of course written in this other form is perfectly acceptable. So where that line meets the line y equals 0, which is just the x-axis. Since we know that we're interested in the intersection of these two lines, what equation can we create out of these two different equations that we can solve to figure out where their points of intersection are? Since we know what points of intersection, the y value for the two lines that are crossing through there will be the same, we can set 0 equal to negative x squared over 8 plus 4x minus 14. And that's the equation we need to solve. The solutions to this equation, values of x, will give us then the x values of the points where these two lines intersect. So now we have, from the last quiz, the equation, negative x squared over 8 plus 4 x minus 14 equals 0. We already saw though that these two equations, which we know both describe our parabola here, are equivalent to one another. So that means, we know that negative x squared over 8 plus 4 x minus 14 is equal to negative 1 8th times x minus 4 times x minus 28. So, we can set the right-hand side of this equation equal to zero through simple substitution. Wonderful, now we have another equation. This one, however, is actually pretty easy to solve if we think of a little trick. First things first, we're going to simplify. Can you think of a really, really easy way to simplify this? In particular, I'd really love to get rid of this factor of negative 1 8th. The first thing I'd like you to tell me is what we can do to both sides of this equation to get rid of this factor of negative 1 8th. In this little blue box, please write some sort of operator and then a number. Plus, minus, multiply or divide, and then whatever number you think we should do that with. Once you figure out how to get rid of this negative 1 8th, I'd like you to write the new version of the equation in this box right here. So, the equation I want here is just the equation that we have after we get rid of that factor of negative 1 8th. We need to divide both sides by negative 1/8 to make this factor on the left side disappear. Over here, that will leave us with x minus 4 times x minus 28. And on the right side, we'll still have 0. Well this equation certainly makes things a little bit easier. Because we did the same thing to both sides, I mean, didn't do anything crazy, like try to divide by 0, whatever answers we come up with from here on out will still work for our original equation, either of these two right here. The difference is that now when we solve, we only have to deal with two factors that are multiplied together instead of three, like we had when we had that constant term out here as well. Let's think about what we can deduce at this point. We have two factors that when multiplied together give us 0. Let's call one of them a and the other one b. Then we can write this equation as ab equals 0. Thinking about this equation, can we conclude anything about what either a or b should equal? Please answer yes or no. The answer is yes. We do in fact know something about the value of at least one of these variables. So there is one number that either a or b or maybe even both should be equal to. What is that number? 0. That is the number that we're looking for. Now, we think about either a or b or really any real number. There are three options in terms of their value. They can either be positive, they can be negative, or they could be neither positive nor negative, in other words, 0. Now if we multiply two positive things together, we get a positive number. So a and b can't both be positive or else we wouldn't get zero. Two negative numbers multiplied together also gives us a positive number. So a and b can't both be negative either. A positive number times a negative number, or, the reverse order, a negative number times a positive number, both equal negative numbers. That's also not what we're looking for. The only way to end up with a 0 as the product of two numbers is for one of those two numbers that are being multiplied together to equal 0 itself. So either a or b or both a and b must equal 0. So that means then, that we might have two ways to get an answer of 0 over here. Either a could be 0 or b could be 0 or in some cases both, if a equals b. Now that we know that either a or b or both need to equal 0 if we have an equation of the form a times b equals 0, that means that to make this equation true, we either need to have x minus 4 or x minus 28 equaling 0. So then what two equations can we get out of this one equation that will each give us a solution to this equation. I know this is kind of a tricky, subtle question, but think back to what we learned about the ab equals 0 equation to figure this out. We should end up with two expressions, each set equal to 0. We know that either this factor needs to equal 0, or this factor needs to equal 0, to make this entire expression on the left side equal to 0. So that means we can either have the equation x minus 4 equals 0, or we can have the equation x minus 28 equals 0. Now we have two simple equations that we can very easily solve. What do you get for x when you solve each of them? Solving for x, we get x equals 24 for this equation, and x equals 28 for this equation. Interestingly enough, these are the x-coordinates of the two x-intercepts of our graph. So remember what we actually did? We started off by picking out 0 as the y value for which we wanted to find corresponding x values. On this parabola. Plugging in that value for y, or in other words substituting in 0 in the place of y in the equation, we solve for x. To get the corresponding x coordinates at the various points on the graph where the y coordinate is 0. So the reason that we have two answers here is because there are two points on the graph, 4,0 and 28,0 that are the same Y value of zero. In the last few quizzes, we figured out that if could get a quadratic equation in this form right here, with two factors involving an x to the first power multiplied together. Then we could pretty easily find out where its x intercepts are. Or where that parabola cuts the x axis. Awesome. Just to cement that idea, let's do one more practice example involving these concepts. Let's say then, that we have the equation y equals x minus 4 times x plus 3. If I want to find out, where this curve, intersects with the x axis, or in other words, where its x intercepts are, what equation do we need to solve? Please write your answer in this box. Also, at this point, we don't need to multiply out anything, or simplify at all. This is really just a one step problem at this point. Since the x-axis is the line y equals 0, you just need to substitute 0 in as the value of y, which gives us the equation 0 equals the quantity x minus 4 times the quantity x plus 3. Now we're going to want to solve our new equation, which you'll notice I switched the order of the sides, because I just like looking at it better this way. We now have the quantity x minus 4 times the quantity x plus 3 equaling 0. Now the question is, which values of x satisfy this equation? I'm not going to tell you how many values there are, but I'd like you to write as many as you find all in this box. And if you get more then one answer, I'd like you to separate each of your answers by commas. We know that either this factor, x minus 4, or this factor, x plus 3, have to equal 0 in order to make this entire expression equal to 0. That means the answers for either one of these equations will satisfy this one. So our two numbers that x can equal then to satisfy this equation are 4 and negative 3. Let's look at a graph of this real quick. To help you visualize this a little bit better, here's the graph of the parabola corresponding to our original equation, which you'll recall was y equals x minus 4 times x plus 3. It's really easy to mistake this equation that we're solving with the equation for the parabola. But please remember that this is the equation we get when we plug in a certain y value. This does not relate x to y, and therefore it can't graph all these different points. Looking at the full problem, we can however notice the value of what we found. Here's the point, negative 3, 0, one of our x-intercepts, which we found right here, and here's the other one, 4, 0. Please remember that x-intercepts are actually points, because what we're solving for here are the x-coordinates of those points. Now it's your turn to try one totally on your own. Here's a quadratic equation. Y equals the quantity 2x plus 1 times the quantity 3x minus 2. And I'd like you to tell me where the parabola that corresponds to this equation intersects the x-axis. Please make sure that whatever answers you give, whether there's one or two or three or however many, should be written as points. So I don't just want x values. I want the actual points of intersection. The first step here is to recognize that what we're looking for is the value of x-coordinates where y equals 0 along this curve. So we need to set y equal to 0. Once we're here, we can come up with two separate equations that will help us find values for x that will make this true. So we can either have 2x plus 1 equals 0, or we can have 3x minus 2 equals 0. If either one of these equals 0, then this entire side of the equation will equal 0, and we'll be good to go. Now we just need to solve for x. Solving for x gives us a value of x equals negative 1/2 for this equation and x equals 2/3 for this equation. If we plug either of these in, we will make this equation true. But remember, I asked you for points. And in particular, I asked you for what the x-intercepts of this equation are. We can just read them off now, using these as our x-coordinates and remembering that our y-coordinate has to be 0 for an x-intercept. Voila. Two lovely points. In one of our earlier quizzes when you were deciding which curves were parabolas and which ones weren't, we saw the equation y equals 3x squared plus 2x. We know very well by now that if we want to find the x intercept of this equation we need to start by setting y equal to 0, and then the next step after that will be to try to get the expression on the right hand side, with the x's in it, into a form where we have one factor multiplied by another factor. Where both factors have an x to the 1st power in them. And in fact, you already know how to do this. All this involves is factoring. Remember, that means looking for a common factor between terms, and putting it outside a set of parenthesis so that it will And multiply in. So, what is a way that we could rewrite this equation by pulling out a common factor that both of these terms have. Please fill in one of those factors here, and another one here. Notice that 3x squared and 2x both have a factor of x in them. If we divide 3x squared by x, we're left with 3x. And if we divide 2x by x, we're just left with 2. So factoring this, 3x squared plus 2x, gives us x times the quantity 3x plus 2. Now that we have our equation in this form, factored and everything, I'd like you to tell me at what values of x does this parabola cross the x-axis. I'll write an x equals here outside of the box to remind you that we just want values of x or x-coordinates of the points where this happens. Now, I'd like you to write all the different values you get in this box, separated by commas. In order to satisfy this equation, we need to either have x equals 0 or need to have 3x plus 2 equals 0. X has conveniently already been solved for here, and this equation gives us a solution x equals negative 2/3. So x can either take on a value of 0 or it can take on a value of negative 2/3 to make this equation right here true. The x-coordinates of the points where this parabola crosses the x-axis are 0 and negative 2/3. We saw earlier that we can rate the standard form for the equation of a parabola as y equals Ax squared plus Bx plus C. So the equation that produces any parabola should be able to be written in this form. And recently what we've been doing is taking equations that are written in this standard form and replacing y over here with 0. So in general that gives us something like this. Now we know that this is no longer an equation for a parabola. This is not going to give us any points to graph since we only have x as our single variable. This value of 0 isn't varying, so it's not a variable. It's just a constant. This kind of equation, or an equation that you can write in this form, is called a quadratic equation. Now a quadratic equation has one of the same restrictions that the standard form for the equation of parabola did. This coefficient A here is not allowed to equal 0. What I would like you to tell me now is what the degree of a quadratic equation is. Think back to what you learned about the term degree way back the very beginning of the course. The answer is 2. If we look at this equation and we require that a can't be 0, then we'll always have a term with an x to the 2nd power in it. And this will always be the term with the highest degree. So that means that quadratic equations have this degree as well. So you've now seen these two equations that look pretty similar to one another several times. We have y equals Ax squared plus Bx plus C. And we have 0 equals Ax squared plus Bx plus C. What I want to do with this quiz is make sure that we understand the difference between the two of these equations. When do we use each one, and what purpose do they each serve? So I've given you some different options over here, four different options. And each one of these describes either this equation or this equation. So for each of these four things, please pick the equation that it describes. Which one of these graphs a parabola? Which one finds the x-coordinates of the x-intercepts of a parabola? Which one relates y to x? And which one can be solved? Please pick the equation for each that best fits this description. Remember that this first equation, y equals Ax squared plus bx plus C, is the equation of a problem written in standard form. Because this contains two variables, x and y, we can use it to graph points on a two dimensional. Plane. For any value of x that we might want to consider, we can come up with a corresponding value for y. And then, of course, plot that point on our plane. We can't do that with this equation over here. Because there is no variable on the left side. The only variable in the quadratic equation is x. So clearly, the equation of parabola relates y to x. Whereas, the quadratic equation does not. However, the quadratic equation is very powerful and useful for us in it's own ways. It gives us a very straightforward way for finding the x-coordinates of the x-intercepts of the parabola that it corresponds to. And of course, we could find that equation, the equation of the parabola, by replacing the zero with y again. The other thing that's very useful about a quadratic equation is that it can actually be solved. Because we have one variable x in this equation and there's only one equation, we can isolate x and find some number of values that it needs to equal in order to make this equation true. So the equation of a parabola can yield a graph, A quadratic equation can yield solutions. For values of x, that tell us a lot about these graphs of parabolas. I know this is a really subtle distinction, so if this seems a little bit confusing at all, that makes perfect sense. I myself messed this up several times. Several crucial times, before I really got the difference, so just keep reminding yourself of the distinction, and when we use each one. Right now, Grant's booth area at the Expo is 10 feet wide by 15 feet long. That gives him a total area of 150 feet squared. Since area is just length times width, which is 10 times 15. Now this whole slingshot game is taking up a ton of space. In fact, he's already way outside his boundaries in terms of where the ball is ending up. He's also worried that if people throw really poorly, they're going to hit people in other booths. That would definitely not be good marketing for Grant's Gleaming Glasses. The person in charge of the Expo told Grant that he can, in fact, expand the space that he is in under one condition. He has to increase his dimensions by the same amount In both directions, if he's going to make this any bigger. For now, I'm going to call that link that we're going to add on, x. Grant, ambitious as always, wants to double the area of his booth. That way he'll have 300 square feet of space to do whatever he wants with. The question is, how much does he need increase these dimensions by? What does x need to equal to make this happen? Let's start out by figuring out what the area would be if Grant increased each side by 1 foot. All that Grant needs to do is to change the length measurement by 1 foot higher and to also increase the width measurement by 1 foot. Instead of having 10 times 15, he'll have 10 plus 1 times 15 plus 1. 11 times 16 is 176 square feet. So increasing 1 foot in each direction increased the total area from 150 to 176 feet squared or, in other words, made the area go up by 26 feet. So what will happen then if we increase the dimensions by yet another foot? Do you think the area will increase by another 26 feet squared exactly? Do you think it'll increase by more than, than this? Or do you think it will increase by less than this? Well, let's try it out to see what happens. Adding 2 to each side length gives us 12 times 17 or 204 square feet. That's 28 bigger than before, not 26. So I guess the area will increase by more than 26 feet squared. Interesting. Let's take a moment to examine these values of x, the amount we're increasing each dimension by, and A, the total area of Grant's display space, or at least the ones that we've seen so far. The original area, before we added anything to either dimension, was 150 square feet. When we added 1 foot in each direction, the area changed 176 square feet. So in the transition from this point to this point, x went up by 1 and A went up by 26. Let's see what happens in the next transition. Once again, x went up by 1. But this time, A increased by 28 instead of 26. This is what we call nonlinear behavior. Remember that for a straight line, which we can write as y equals mx plus b, m, the slope, is going to be the same, regardless of which points we pick. The change in x is always going to be the same. The change in x value is always going to have the same proportion to change in y value. The change between two x values and the change between two y values is always going to obey the same ratio. That is not what's happening here. This equation no longer applies. A change of 1 foot in dimension doesn't always increase the area by the same amount. This is a pretty interesting problem to have. Remembering that area is equal to length times width, can you come up with an equation that we can use to figure out what value of x will give us an area of 300 square feet? So think about how x will be involved in both the length and the width of this new area. Well we know that we want A over here to equal 300. Now for the length, which was originally 15 feet, you want to tack on an extra distance of x to it. So our length will be 15 plus x. We do a similar thing for our width. It's going to be 10 plus x. So here's our equation. And of course it does not matter which order you have these factors in because of the commutative property of multiplication. I could draw the dimensions of Grant's new space like this. In orange we have the original layout, and these blue lines represent the addition that he wants to make, in order to get, to a total area of 300 square feet. What I'd like you to do now, is to rewrite this equation. So that you carry out the distribution or multiplication on the right hand side. So multiply these two polynomials together, and also combine like-terms on the right side, then write your new equation down here. Again, just simplify the right side. Leave the left side alone. We know that we're leaving the left side alone. So I'll just go ahead and write 300 again. And then we know we need to distribute multiplication by each of the terms in the first set of parentheses to each of the terms in the second set of parentheses. So let's start with the 15. I need to multiply it by the 10 and by the x. Then I do the same thing with the x. That gets multiplied by both of these terms as well. From there, we just simplify within each term and combine like terms. Awesome. But we know that I love everything written in standard form for polynomials. So that means we need the term with the highest degree first. So we get 300 equals x squared plus 25x plus 150. Now x, which is the amount of length and width we're adding to the booth, is the variable that we're going to want to solve for in this equation. Right now, we don't know how to do this. There's this x squared term, and it's kind of confusing to think about what you do with that. So let's learn. First of all, I don't like having constant terms on both sides of the equal sign. We can pretty easily make that not be the case. If I want to get rid of the 300 over here on the left, then what am I going to be left with on the right? Fill in this box with the expression that belongs in the right-hand side of the equation that will be left after I legally get rid of 300 from the left. All we need to do to get rid of the 300 on the left is subtract it from both sides. Then we have 0 equals x squared plus 25x minus 150. So, here's an equation. We want to solve for x. Let's take a couple minutes to figure out how we can actually do that. A little while ago, we saw these two equations. And even though they look really different, we mentioned that they are equivalent to one another. We also saw that this equation over here on the right, written in this particular form, became very useful when we looked at the quadratic equations that go along with these equations for parabolas. These two equations are also equivalent. But the equation 0 equals negative one-eighth times the quantity x minus 4, times the quantity x minus 28, is very useful to us because from it, we can just read off the locations of the x intercepts. We have one at x equals 4, and we have another at x equals 28. Now we were just looking at this equation to help us deal with the expanding dimensions of Grant's growing floor space. We had 0 equals x squared plus 25x minus 150. What kind of equation is this, though? Is this a linear equation, or is it an equation for a parabola? Or is it a quadratic equation? We get x squared plus ax plus bx plus ab. So you're pretty proficient at this point at multiplying polynomials together. And then of course simplifying what you get. But if we can work from having two binomials. Binomials are just polynomials with two terms in them. We can work from having those multiplied together to having something that looks sort of quadratic. We should be able to start with something quadratic and work backwards, to having binomials multiplied together. And the problem with Grant, we're trying to go that direction. So let's say we have some simple quadratic expressions, like x squared, plus 5x, plus 6. Can we figure out how to factor this, based on patterns in the above equation? The x squareds correspond directly, and the 6, and the ab, are both constant terms, so they must go together. If this middle term, the 5x and ax plus bx that are going to be a little bit more tricky. So let's focus on this part of the term. Can you figure out a common factor to pull out of ax plus bx? Write this in factored form. There's an x in both terms, so you can pull that out, leaving us with x times the quantity a plus b. Of course, you could also write this differently, as a plus b times x. In fact, I prefer this way, so that's what I'm going to use. That way our x is behind our coefficients. That's pretty. Now we can come into our earlier equation and replace ax plus bx with our new quantity. Now we can compare a bit more easily. In fact, let's compare these expressions directly. Let's say for the moment that they're equal to one another, so that we can directly compare the coefficients. If this is the case, then we must have a plus b equals 5, since these are the corresponding coefficients of the x to the first terms. We also know that ab must equal 6. So you have two numbers a and b that add to give us 5 and multiply to give us 6. What do you think those two numbers are? 2 plus 3 is 5 and 2 times 3 is 6, so our numbers must be 2 and 3. Considering the answer to the last quiz, that 2 and 3 are the numbers that add to equal 5 and multiple to equal 6, and also reflecting on the factored form of this polynomial up here, the general one, what's a way we can write x squared plus 5x plus 6 in this form? Think about what a and b each equal, and then try to replicate that in these two parantheses. It doesn't matter what order these factors go in. One of them is x plus 2, and one of them is x plus 3. Let's say we have the polynomial x squared plus 8x plus 15, and we want to factor it. For the moment, I'm going to say that the factors are x plus a and x plus b. So their product is just this polynomial. Now thinking about how multiplication of binomials works, what number do a and b need to add to equal, and what number do they need to multiply to equal? Think about the quadratic expression on the left. Remember that if we multiply these two binomials together, we get a general answer of x squared plus the quantity a plus b times x plus ab. So a plus b, we can see, is the coefficient of an x to the first term, which in the expression that we're trying to match is 8. So a plus b equals 8. Now a times b shows up in the constant term of this expression, which in the expression we're going for is 15. So a times b equals 15. Now that we know that these two numbers a and b need to add to equal 8 and multiply to equal 15, can you fill in what they are down here? This is going to give us the factored form of x squared plus 8x plus 15. Doesn't matter which number goes in which box, as long as you get the right combination of two numbers. So let's look at some numbers that multiplied, equal 15. Well,of course we have 15 and 1, but 15 plus 1 is not 8, so that can't be right. What else? 3 times 5. 3 times 5 equals 15. And, look at that. 3 plus 5. If we plug those two numbers in over here, equals 8. So, one of these must be 3 and one has to be 5. So, now we know that x squared plus 8x plus 15 equals x plus 3 times x plus 5, awesome. Now get ready for a little bit more practice, with factoring just like this. We just looked at the polynomial x squared plus 8x plus15. But what if I change this very slightly. Instead, I'd like us to look at x squared minus 8x plus 15. Let's see if we can factor this. As before, I'm going to say that this is equal to the product of two binomials. One of which is x plus some number a, and the other of which is x plus some number b. In this case, what do a and b need to multiply to equal. And what do they need to add to equal? We know that a times b is just equal to this constant factor back here of 15. And a plus b wound up being the coefficient of the middle term, the x to the first term. And remember that coefficient includes the sign, which makes it negative 8. Great. So here we have two numbers that multiply together, to equal a positive number, but add together to equal a negative number. So, in the general case, not just this specific one we're looking at, if we have any two numbers that multiply to equal a positive number, but that add to equal a negative number, what can we say about those two numbers? Are they both positive, are they both negative, is one positive and the other negative? Is one zero, or are both of them zero? Pick which of them you think is the best choice. Both of the numbers must be negative. For example, negative 1 times negative 1 equals positive 1, but negative 1 plus negative 1 equals negative 2. This statement can be said about any two negative numbers. So going back to our earlier problem, if a times b equals 15, and a plus b equals negative 8, then what are the values of a and b. Just to remind you in case it's not completely clear right away, it doesn't which number we call a and which number we call b. As long as we have the two right numbers that satisfy these two equations. We saw earlier that 15 is equal to 3 times 5, but we know that this time a and b need to both be negative. Well that's easy. 15's just equal to negative 3 times negative 5. And sure enough, those also add to equal negative 8. Order again here does not matter. It doesn't matter which one we call a and which one we call b. Just matters that we got these two numbers. Great job. So finally, how can we factor x squared minus 8x plus 15? Think about the values that you just got for a and b, and how they fit in the form of binomials that are multiplied together to give quadratic expressions. This is a little bit tricky. So just give it a couple tries if you need to. Since we had a and b equaling negative 3 and negative 5, our answer is x minus 3 times x minus 5. What if we have x squared minus 5x minus 6? First tell me what a times b and a plus b must be, and then use those two numbers to figure out what our factors must be. Think really carefully about what signs you need on these two numbers. If we're looking for 2 numbers, a and b, to add to our xes, and our 2 binomials up here. They need to multiply to equal negative 6. And they need to add to equal negative 5. This is pretty tricky. When I think about 6 and 5, I think about 3 and 2 as numbers that might work. Let's see. If we have negative 3, and we need to multiply by something to get negative 6. That would be a positive 2. But negative 3 plus positive 2 equals negative 1, which is not negative 5. Hm. We need something different. Well, how about 6 and 1? Negative 6 times positive 1. There we go. And negative 6 plus 1 equals negative 5, so that's perfect. So our factors will be x minus 6, and x plus 1. What if instead I want us to look at x squared plus 5x minus 6? If one of these binomials is something like x plus a and the other is x plus b, then what is a times b and what is a plus b? And then also, what are these factors? A times b is negative 6, and a plus b is positive 5. Now again, I like to start off with the multiplication bit. 3 and 2 don't work again here, because we'd have to have one of them negative, one of them positive, and then they wouldn't add to 5 anymore. But, what if this time we try negative 1 times positive 6, instead of negative 6 times positive 1. 6 minus 1 is 5, so that works. So a and b must be negative 1 and 6, either way around. So we'll have x minus 1 times x plus 6. Finally, I think we're ready to help Grant. Remember that he left us with this equation, x squared plus 25 x minus 150 equals 0. Remember that x here stands for the number of feet that Grant wants to add to each side of the booth. He's going to add the same amount to each side. So, how can we use our new found factoring skills to rewrite the left side of this equation? Please fill in the two binomial factors that multiply to equal the left side. We know that if we want to write this in the form x plus a times x plus b, that in this case, a times b will equal negative 150, and a plus b will equal 25. Since a times b is negative, either a or b needs to be negative and the other needs to be positive. So what are some things that multiply it to equal negative 150? Well, there's negative 1 times 150. There's negative 3 times 50. There's negative 5 times 30. Oh, it looks like that one will work since, as we know, 25 is equal to 30 minus 5. So the equation now should read x plus 30 times x minus 5 equals 0. Now we want to solve for x. We learned last lesson that when two things were multiplied together to equal zero, one of them needs to equal zero. So either we need to have a value of x that will make this binomial equal to zero or we need to have a value of x that will make this binomial equal zero. Which two values of x then, satisfy this equation? X can either equal negative 30 or positive 5 in order to make this equation true. Awesome. We have a solution. Actually, we have two solutions. We have two different values of x, either of which would make this equation true. At any given time, we don't use both of them. As always when we're substituting in values for variables, we're consistent about what we plug in. If we're going with x equals negative 30, we put that in every spot where x is. Let's just double-check to make sure that this is what we want to have happen. The left-hand side of the equation, if we plug in x equals negative 30, will end up being 0 times negative 35. Even though this factor over here is not 0, anything times 0 is 0. Something very similar happens if we plug in x equals 5, but I'll leave that up to you. And the question is, considering what x stands for, remember, it's the length that we're adding to each side of Grant's booth, only one of these two answers really mean makes sense. Thinking about what x stands for in our original equation, remember it's the length that Grant wants to add in feet to each side of his display booth at the expo, only one of these two answers really makes sense. So, pick one of them, and tell me how much longer each side of the booth should be. 5 feet. We can't add a negative to something to make it bigger. We can of course check this answer, too. Remember that we started off with the equation 15 plus x times 10 plus x equals 300. Let's see if 5 satisfies this. For the left-hand side, we'll have 15 plus 5 times 10 plus 5, which is just 20 times 15, which is 300. And the right-hand side is just equal to 300. So, we're good. 5 feet is the right answer. Here's another quadratic polynomial, x squared minus 9. And even though this poly looks a little bit different, from the other quadratic polynomials we've seen, we can still write it as the product of two linear factors. Remember that, being quadratic means that a polynomial is of second degree. And being linear means that an expression is of first degree. So what two linear factors multiply to give us x squared minus 9? x squared minus 9 is equal to the quantity x plus 3 times the quantity x minus 3. We know from looking at the left side of the equation, the original expression that we had, that the two numbers we insert here as being added to x, need to multiply to give us negative 9 and need to add to give us 0. And sure enough, 3 times negative 3 equals negative 9, and 3 plus negative 3 or 3 minus 3 equals 0. Here is yet another expression, in particular, a quadratic polynomial. But this time the coefficient of the x squared term isn't just a 1. It's a 2. Because this coefficient is no longer a 1, we run the risk of having all three terms here have a common factor other than 1, a factor that we can pull out of the entire expression. I'd like you to rewrite this expression with the greatest common factor that all three terms share pulled out of the expression and the rest of the expression that it multiplies in the second box. We can see that there's a common factor of 2 in all three terms here. Each of these is divisible by 2, so we can write 2 times a polynomial. The polynomial that we get when we divide each term by 2. That way when we redistribute multiplication by 2 to each of these terms, we end up with the original expressions. We have 2 times the quantity x squared plus 6 x plus 5. The next step is to factor this polynomial that's inside the parentheses. What does our expression look like then? Factored out, this expression is 2 times the quantity x plus 5 times the quantity x plus 1. We can check that these are equal by redistributing the multiplication on the right side. With the polynomial 2 x squared plus 12 x plus 10, we got really lucky in how we got to factor. Because there was a common factor of 2 between all three of these terms. But you can imagine that for some polynomials, whose coefficients in front of the x squared term aren't one, this won't be the case. Let's say for example that we have an 11 here instead of a 12. Then we can no longer begin the problem by dividing all the terms by this 2. So we're not going to end up with a quadratic expression with a 1 in front that we know how to factor right away. We need to figure out another method for factoring. I think we should backtrack to the thing that we first started factoring with. Let's look at the general case of a quadratic polynomial that's been factored, and whose leading coefficient will be 1. We have x plus a and x plus b as our linear factors. Let's go through multiplying this out again. I know we've done it many times before. Okay, so multiplying this out we get x squared plus the quantity a plus b, times x plus ab. What if instead of a and b we want to play with real numbers? But maybe in playing with those real numbers, I want to keep the equation for the quadratic in this form. Let's say we start off with a polynomial x squared plus 5x plus 6. We know that we can rewrite this, recognizing that 2 and 3 are factors of 6 and also add equal 5. As x squared plus, the quantity 2 plus 3, times x, plus 6. Which pretty simply becomes x squared plus 2x plus 3x plus 6. Great. Now this probably all seems simple leading up until now. But now I'm going to ask you to do something a little bit different. The thing that I'd like you to do that probably will feel a little bit strange is look first at just the first two terms here. And find a factor between the two of them that's in common. Pull it out and then write the rest of the equation in here, and then do the same thing for the second pair of factors. Find a common factor and factor it out. And then the expression you have after that, right here. x squared and 2x have a common factor of x. So for the first two terms we can rewrite them as x times the quantity x plus 2. The second two terms have a common factor of 3. And that will leave x plus 2 inside these parenthesis. Awesome. Maybe now you can see that there's a method to my madness. Now at last, I'd like you to write this initial expression in its fully factored form. To do this, look at the two terms that we have, in the step right above this one, and see if they have a common factor. Then that will be a factor that you can pull out and put in one set of parentheses and then figure out what's left over. Our two terms are x times the quantity x plus 2 and 3 times the quantity x plus 2. Both of these have a factor of x plus 2 in them. So we can pull that outside. And what's left over? Well, an x and added to that a 3. Awesome. That's our answer. So far, we've been dealing with quadratic polynomials, like x squared plus 5 x plus 6, to figure out how to factor this. We've been looking for two numbers that add to equal the middle term coefficient, and multiply to equal the final coefficient. So, in the case of this polynomial, we end up with 2 and 3 as our two coefficients. What if I told you, though, that this quantity a,b, in other words, the product of the two numbers that add to equal the middle coefficient, is also equal to the product of two coefficients from the original expression. Let's just play around with this for a second, though. I'm going to name each of the coefficients of each term in this three term expression A, B, and C. So, A in this case is 1, B is 5, and C is 6. So before we found the two numbers that add to equal this term, they were 2 and 3. But what if I told you that these multiply to equal not just this final term, but actually the product of two of the coefficients in this expression over here. So the two numbers we found to equal this coefficient B, multiply to equal what? Do they multiply to equal A squared, B squared, C squared, AB, BC, or AC? The answer is AC. Since A is equal to the invisible 1 that's written right here, and we know that 2 times 3 equals 6, we also know that 6 times 1 equals 6. And 6 and 1 are just C and A, so their product is A times C. So the two numbers that we're going to need to help us with factoring add to equal this middle coefficient but multiply to equal the product of the two outer coefficients. Now I wonder if this works if we don't have an expression just like this, where the coefficient out here is 1, in front of the x squared term. Let's say we have something different. Maybe we have 8x squared plus 26x plus 15. Of course, the important thing here is that 8 is not 1. So our coefficient in front of the x squared term is different this time than what we've dealt with before. The question I have for you then is, what are the numbers n and m for this expression right here? What two numbers add to equal 26 and multiply to equal 8 times 15? 20 and 6 add to equal 26 and multiplied equal 120, which is the same as 8 times 15. Now we can use those two numbers, 20 and 6, and insert them, as a sort of expansion, of this middle coefficient, for the x, for the first term. Now we're getting much, much closer to being able to factor. I'm going to take one step further in simpifying this for you, and then we'll have a little quiz. We know that this expression is equal to 8x squared plus 20x plus 6x plus 15. And now I'd like you to begin the Factoring. To do that, I'd like you to start off by looking at the first two terms, pulling a common factor out of them, and then doing the same thing for the second two terms, with their common factor. Write the new version of the expression in these two boxes right here. First we're going to consider just 8x squared plus 20x. In the two coefficients, there's a common factor of 4. And in the variables, there's a common factor of x. So we have 4x times what's left over in each term, 2x plus 5. Wonderful. Now let's look at 6x plus 15. We can only consider it the constant parts of each term, since there's no variable portion of 15. And 6 and 15 are both divisible by 3. And then we're left with, surprise, 2x plus 5. Wonderful. So we have 4x times the quantity 2x plus 5 plus 3 times the quantity 2x plus 5. We are so close to being done. I'd like you to take the one last step to fully factor this expression, 8x squared plus 26x plus 15. Write the two factors in these two boxes down here. We now have two things added together. We have 4 x times the quantity 2 x plus 5, added to 3 times the quantity 2 x plus 5. Between these two terms, we have a common factor of 2 x plus 5, so we can start by pulling that outside. And then, we can multiply that, and then we can rate the things that it multiplies. 4 x plus 3. So the final factored form of 8 x squared plus 26 x plus 15 is just this expression, the quantity 2 x plus 5 times the quantity 4 x plus 3. Awesome. Let's check that just to make sure. We multiply 2 x by each of these terms, and then we multiply 5 by each of these terms. All we need to do now is add like terms, and voila, we have verified that this factored form is in fact equal to the expression we started out with. Awesome. Let's do a quick overview of the method we used to get from this quadratic polynomial, which does not have 1 as its coefficient of the first term, to its fully factored form. So you started off by finding two numbers that add to equal this middle coefficient. And then multiply it equal the product of the two outer coefficients. Let's see if we can try that method out with another problem. What if we have the expression 5x squared minus 28x minus 12? How would you fully factor this quadratic polynomial? Remember the method that we used for the last one. And if you need to review it, just go back and peek at the past videos. The first thing we're going to do is look for two numbers that add to equal negative 28. So we can write this middle coefficient in expanded form and factor from there. We know that those two numbers also need to multiply to equal the product of these outer two coefficients. So, 5 times negative 12 in this case, which is negative 60. So, what adds to equal negative 28 but multiplies to equal negative 60? Well, 60 is just equal to 30 times 2. So, we have negative 30 times positive 2, then negative 30 plus 2 equals negative 28. So those must be our two numbers. That means we can rewrite this expression as 5 x squared plus the quantity 2 minus 30 times x minus 12. I personally think that's the hardest part of the problem, is figuring out how to rewrite that middle coefficient. From here, it's pretty straightforward. Now, we just factor within the first two terms and then within the second two terms. We recognize a common factor of 5 x plus 2. And finally, we get to our official answer of 5 x plus 2 times x minus 6. We just used one method for factoring this polynomial right here, 5x squared minus 28x minus 12. And because I know that factoring polynomials that don't have leading coefficient of 1 is a little bit tricky, I want to take a second to go more in-depth into the logic of figuring out what numbers belong in our linear factors. Saying that a polynomial like this one, of degree 2, is factorable, it means that we can write it in this form. As two linear factors, or factors with an x to the first power in them, multiplied together. And the general form of a linear factor is just like this. You have some coefficient times x plus some constant term, what we've been talking about is how to figure out what numbers belong here. Now, of course, one way to do this is to factor by grouping like we have been that entailed expanding this middle term into two terms that added together to equal it and then grouping pairs of terms together, so considering this first pair as a chunk, and the second pair as a separate chunk, and pulling the greatest common factor that we can out of either those pairs. This is why we call this factoring by grouping, because we're grouping these terms and grouping these terms. We can use a slightly different kind of logic though, to get to the same answer. If we've already written out the form that we want the equation to end up in, we can look directly at what we might want from these different coefficients and constant terms based on what we start out with. We know that the way we end up with this x squared term here is by multiplying the term with an x to the first power from each binomial in it. So, that means that whatever the coefficient is here, multiplied by this coefficient, must equal 5. We can write out all the different factors of 5, we can either have 1 times 5 or we could have negative 1 times negative 5. Now, another thing we know is that the two constant terms multiplied together, equal the constant term in the original expression. So, we can think about the factors of negative 12 as well. There are a ton of different ones here. I guess I will write them all out though just for your pleasure, and voila, there we go. I hope I didn't miss any. Now we know that the way we get this negative 28, the coefficient of the middle term here, is by multiplying whatever this number is times this number. And then, adding that to this number times this number. That means, we are going to have either 5 times some number plus 1 times some number equals to negative 28 or for the other pair over here, negative 5 times something minus 1 times something equals negative 28. Now, since I rather have two positive coefficients for x having the two negative ones, let's just select to use 5 equals 1 time 5. This makes our job a lot easier because that only leaves 1 combination of factors over here that we can plug in. You just have to figure out which one it is. And, of course, as we already saw in the previous quiz, we know that this has to be negative 6 and this has to be positive 2. I can fill in the coefficients in front of the x's, and then since I know that the two outer terms multiply when we're trying to find this middle coefficient, and the negative 6 goes in this slot, and the 2 goes in this slot, since the inner terms are contributing to this as well. Let's try this again. What if we have the polynomial 6 x squared minus 7 x minus 5? We know that we're going to write this as the product of two linear factors and to figure out like we did before what belongs in these different slots, we need to first find out what the factors of 6 are that could go here, and here, and what the factors of negative 5 are. To know what could go here or what could go here. So let's do that. For both 6 and negative 5, I'd like you to write out all of the pairs of integers that multiply to equal each number. So put one pair per box. You're not going to fill in all the boxes, just so you know. And write the pairs of numbers with just a comma separating them. The pairs of integers that multiply to give us 6 are 1 and 6, negative 1 and negative 6, 2 and 3, and negative 2 and negative 3. The integers that multiply to give us negative 5 are just 1 and negative 5, and negative 1 and 5. Now, you can imagine that if I have a linear factor that has a negative coefficient in front of the X that I can actually pull that negative out and instead write the factor in an equivalent from with a positive coefficient for X. The negative can be reflected in the other factor that we're multiplying by. This basically means that I can choose which coefficients go in front of our X term. And if I want, I can decide that I want those to be positive. That's definitely what I would prefer, just for ease of looking at our factorization. So let's just go ahead and remove the negative number pairs that multiply to equal 6. This makes our lives much easier. Now we only have two pairs of coefficients to check to put in these slots instead of four. So let's do just that. Let's check them. I've written out for you two possible ways of factoring our original expression of 6x squared minus 7x minus 5. Actually only one of these 2 ways is possible because you know that only one of these combinations of coefficients for x actually works. So for the one that works you're going to figure that out by figuring out which number belongs here and here or here and here depending on which one is right and then on the equation that's not going to work at all based on these first 2 coefficients. You're going to simply bubble in wrong for the 2 constant term slots. So basically, try out each of the 4 numbers that are written down here, which you notice are the 4 different factors of negative 5 that you found earlier. And once you find out which one works, fill in the proper numbers and then rule out the other entire equation. So it turns out that this first combination of coefficients for x 6 and 1 does not work, this is the wrong one we can only know that though by trying out these different numbers, now if we could have put a negative one here and the negative one here that our middle term would have become 6x trans negative 1 or negative 6x minus x which is negative 7x But unfortunately, -1 times -1 does not equal -5. We could do that same exact process for each of the 4 numbers in this slot figuring out what they would need to be over here to come up with -7 to eventually rule out all of the possibilities up here. Going with the same process down here, for the factors that have 3x and 2x in them, shows us that we need a -5 here and a 1 here .So that to get our middle term, we have 3x times 1 minus 10x, or negative 7x. Negative 5 times 1 is negative 5. So this is what works. Now I know that this last method that we used might have felt a little bit tedious, and it definitely is a fair amount of work, but for certain equations, it's not too bad to work with. I think that it also really underscores exactly how you get from the original expression you have to the factored form. It also really highlights the connection between the different terms in each factor in the factored form. And how they connect back to the original expression. So even if you always factor by grouping from here on out this still a good experience to have had. It's your choice and frankly both methods do use some similar reasoning. You're still thinking about what numbers add to equal the middle coefficient, and multiply it to equal the product of the two outer coefficients. Let's look at another example. How would you factor 4x squared plus 4x plus 1? The first thing we need to do, as always, is think about what adds to equal 4, and multiplies to equal 4 times 1, or 4? In this case, our numbers are 2 and 2. So instead of 4x, we can write 2x plus 2x, and of course the rest of the expression as well. Then something interesting happens when we try to factor the first two terms and the second two terms. The first two are pretty normal, we pull out a 2x from the 4x squared plus 2x, but then when we get to 2x plus 1 Well there are no common factors that 2x and 1 have aside from 1. So that's exactly what we write, 1. And then the last two terms, 2x plus 1. Conveniently, this still works out perfectly and we get 2x plus 1 times 2x plus 1. Which we can also write as 2x plus 1 the quantity squared. Looking back at the past four polynomials that we've factored, we can notice something super important about each of the factors that we got. And that is that there are no common terms left within any of these factors. So we don't see anything like 3x minus 9 in here, for example. Because if we saw that, we would know to rewrite it as 3 times the quantity x minus 3. So you always want to double check at the end of your factoring process that each of your factors is, in fact, fully factored itself. Keep that in mind with this upcoming problem. Keeping in mind that we don't want any common factors to be within any of the final factors we end up with that multiply to create a polynomial, how would you factor this polynomial? I'll give you a little hint, and that hint is that if there are any common factors that all of the terms have, you should start the problem off by pulling those out first. To start off, we need to figure out what two numbers add to equal 10, and multiply to equal negative 24. It took me a little while to come up with these, since there are so many different sets of numbers that multiplied equal negative 24, but it turns out that our two numbers are positive 12, and negative 2. Once we use those in the expression, you can go through just like we normally do. This gives us the quantity, x plus 2, times the quantity 6x minus 2. But remember what we said about factoring. We're not done fully factoring if there are any common terms left within any of our factors. Notice that 6 and negative 2 share a common factor of 2. We can pull out the 2, and then rearrange the order of our factors, but this looks a little bit more normal. And here's our final answer. 2 times the quantity x plus 2, times the quantity 3x minus 1. There is however, one other way we could have done this. We can notice, right off the bat, that all of our coefficients in the original expression have a common factor of, guess what, 2. Now this expression inside here is pretty easily factorable as well, and we won't run into the problem that we did earlier, of having common factors left within our factors at the end. Go ahead and try it on your own to see if doing the problem this way gives you the same answer as the other way did. Hint, it should end up exactly the same, since we're starting with the same expression. Which of the expressions down here are fully factored? Please check off all of the ones that you think are. A couple of these might be tricky, so be careful. Only three of these are actually fully factored, these three down here. 3x plus 2 times 5x minus 3, x plus 1 times x minus 1, and surprisingly perhaps, 3 times the quantity x squared plus 1. In the first choice, the second factor, 6x plus 9, is actually the same as 3 times the quantity 2x plus 3. So since we can factor this more, it's not fully factored. Similarly, 10x minus 15 can be factored to equal 5 times the quantity 2x minus 3. X squared minus 1, as we learned earlier, can be factored as x plus 1 times x minus 1. And the expression x squared minus 4x plus 4, which we see multiplied by 5 here, is the same as x minus 2 squared. We've been working pretty much solely with polynomial expressions of degree 2 since we started talking about parabolas, like this one right here. However, we know from earlier on in the course that expressions can have terms with even higher powers. Let's take a second to look at one of those right now. How about something like this, x cubed minus x squared plus three x minus three. Now, my question for you is, can we factor this? Well, we have been talking about factoring by grouping a fair amount and we already have four terms here, so let's try it out. Maybe it will work. Let's consider the first two terms together as a pair. And then the last two terms is a pair. And for each of these pairs, please write in the box below it what the greatest common factor that we can pull put is. To make my life easier in the future, I'm going to call greatest common factor, the initials GCF. We can divide both x cubed and negative x squared by x squared. And we can divide both 3x and negative 3 by 3. So now we know that we can pull out an x squared from the first two terms. And when we do that, we need to multiply it by two more terms in here. So that when we redistribute the multiplication, we end up with what we started with. So what I'd like you to do now, is fill in what belongs in each set of parenthesis here. Now that we've pulled out our greatest common factors of x squared for the first pair, and 3 for the second pair of terms. The first two terms, x cubed minus x squared, are equal to x squared times the quantity x minus one. The last two terms, three x minus three, are equal to three times the quantity x minus one. Now we have two terms. And I'd like you to write this in fully factored form by pulling out the common factor that these share. The factor that's shared by these two terms is this x minus 1. So you can write that in, and now it belongs in the second set of parentheses is what's left over and we divide each term by x minus 1. So you have an x squared here and then plus 3 from this term. So that means that we've modified this cubic expression this third degree polynomial. To equal one linear factor times one quadratic factor. So factoring by grouping definitely works for certain higher degree polynomials, just like it works for certain quadratic polynomials. This time, I'd like you to try factoring by grouping for this cubic expression, all on your own. Just move through this slowly and carefully, you can definitely do it, and write you final answer in this box. Since we're factoring by grouping, we want to look at these first two terms first, 2z cubed minus 3z squared. The only common factor that they share is a z squared. So we can rewrite them as z squared times 2z minus 3. Now, onto the last two terms, negative 6z plus 9 has a common factor of negative 3. Now, of course, we could have pulled out a positive three instead and left this as a negative 2z plus 3, but I'd rather have a positive coefficient in front of my variable, that's just a personnel preference thing. Now we just pull out the common factor between the two terms we have left, that common factor is 2z minus 3 and then what's left over is z squared minus 3. And voila, we are fully factored. I'd like us to just go through a couple more examples using factoring by grouping with higher order polynomials. I know this isn't really that different from factoring quadratic polynomials, but I think it's worth it to get some practice. How would you factor 4x cubed minus 12x squared plus 2x minus 6? Make sure that at the end you check the factors you've multiplied together to see if any of them have common factors within them. The first thing that I notice when I look at this, and really the first thing that you should check for whenever you look at any polynomial expression, is that there's a common factor of 2, in every term in the expression. So let's start by pulling that out. Now we only need to concern ourselves with what's inside these parenthesis, just have to make sure that we don't lose track of this 2. Now it's time to factor by grouping. You can pull out 2x squared, out of these first 2 terms, and the last 2 terms are a little bit tricky, because they only share a factor of, well, 1, so that is what we will write. Luckily, we still see that we have a common factor, between the two terms we have left. The fully factored form of this is then, 2 times the quantity x minus 3 times the quantity of 2x squared plus 1. Now in the event that you forgot to pull out the common factor of 2 at the very beginning, all is not lost, we can still solve the problem that way too, lets check it out. If we start off by grouping, instead of pulling the common factor of 2, then we can just proceed by factoring by grouping as normal. We end up with x minus 3, times 4x squared plus 2. At this point, however, when we think that we're fully factored. We have to take that last step to double check, and make sure that neither of these factors has a greatest common factor greater than 1. We see, however, that this term, 4x squared plus 2, has a common factor of 2 between its terms. Then we pull that out. And that is what gives us our final factored form, which of course is the same answer that we got doing the problem the other way. Awesome job. Let's do one final factoring by grouping example together. How would you factor x cubed plus 4 x squared minus x minus 4? Now, this one is definitely a little bit slippery. Think really critically as you're going through the problem and double-check at the end that there are no fractable expressions left in your final answer. Good luck. As before, we pull out a common factor from each pair of terms, and that gets us to a point where we have x plus 4 times x squared minus 1. Now, it's really easy to think that this is the final factored form, but we are not done right now. We have to recognize that the term x squared minus 1 is just a difference of squares. We know that if we have a squared minus b squared, that can be factored as a plus b times a minus b. We can do the same thing for this expression, x squared minus 1 is equal to x plus 1 times x minus 1. This orange expression is our final factored form. This rule is definitely a really tricky problem, so great job. Like we were just talking about, when you look at the expression, X squared minus 1, it's sometimes hard to remember that it's factorable because it looks so simple. It's kind of not that intuitive, that expression that has 2 terms. Can be factored to equal the product of 2 expressions that each have 2 terms. I know that I was pretty blown away when I first learned about the differences of 2 squares. And how it's factorable. What if instead of the difference of two squares though, we had the difference of two cubes. Something like Y cubed minus Z cubed. Since the difference of two squares is factorable, maybe this is too. I've given you 3 choices here, 2 of which are possible factorizations of Y cubed minus Z cubed, and the third choice, which is that this expression is not factorable. Please pick what you think is the best choice. The second choice is the right one. We can check this by multiplying out every term in the first set of parentheses by every term in the second set of parentheses. If you do this, you can see that it will reduce to this expression. So we know that this second choice is equal to y cubed minus z cubed. So now I'm really curious what this first choice simplifies to? Let's find out, please fill in, in this box what this expression simplifies to. Our first shot at multiplying each of the terms in the first expression by every term in the second set of parenthesis, gives us this long disgusting expression. But wait, maybe it's not really that gross, let's take a closer look. When we notice which terms we have that are like terms, we see a minus y squared z and a plus y squared z. So these directly cancel each other out. We do the same thing with the other 2 middle terms positive yz squared and negative yz squared. All that we're left with in the end is a really simple expression, then. This long factorized form is actually just equal to the sum of 2 cubes. Y cubed plus z cubed. This is really incredible. Math is just so gorgeous. So, here's a summary of what we learned over the last two quizzes. We found a general expression for the sum of two cubes and a general expression for the difference of two cubes. We can see here that each of these factorized forms has a binomial, a polynomial with 2 terms, multiplied by a trinomial, a polynomial with 3 terms. The binomial that's involved in the factorization of each expression, has the same sign between its two terms, as the original expression did between its two terms. So, y cubed plus z cubed has a factor of y plus z and y cubed minus z cubed as a factor of y minus z. The middle term of each trinomial, each quadratic expression, has a sign opposite that original sign between the terms. See we have a minus yc in the adding up the cubes and plus yc in the subtracting. Other than that, these factorizations are the same. So, now that we have this wonderful general framework for dealing with the sum and differences of cubes, let's put it into action. Let's look at the expression x cubed minus 8. Now, compared with the general equations that we were looking at before, what in this case is playing the role of y, and what is playing the role of z? This is a difference of two cubes, and the first term, the positive term, is in the slot where y cubed initially was. So that means that x is used here in place of y. Instead of z cubed, we have 8. So that means that 8 is equal to z cubed. If we take the cube root of both sides of this equation, we get 2 on the left side and z on the right side. So z must equal 2. Now that we've figured out, what we're using instead of y and z, we just need to substitute our new values, into the equation up here for the difference of 2 cubes. That's going to give us the factored form of x cubed minus 8. So, please write that out. We can see here that the binomial we have is y minus z, which down here is going to mean x minus 2. So that's what belongs in this first set of parantheses. Then the trinomial is y squared which is x squared why don't you substitute in x, plus y c which is really x times 2, but I'm going to write that as 2x. And then plus z squared. Which is just plus 4. Awesome! I know it might feel a little bit silly to find a factorization that's so much more complicated than the initial expression. But once we talk more about higher order polynomials, you'll understand what the importance of writing out factorizations like this is. I'll give you a hint that we've already talked about. Each linear factor is showing us an x-intercept of a graph. There's a ton of exciting stuff ahead. So just get ready. Here's another expression for you to factor. M cubed plus 27. M's a pretty great letter, so we might as well use it as a variable. Just as we did in the last example, be super careful about what we're going to substitute in for y and z in our original equation. Or rather, in the general form of the equation. I still like to write out what y and z are equal to? If we initially had y cubed plus z cubed, then y is equal to m here and z is equal to the cubed root of 27, which is just 3. Three cubed gives us 27, great, that checks off. Now our binomial is just going to be y plus z or m plus 3, and our trinomial is going to be m squared minus 3m plus 9, beautiful. Let's do 1 last example using sum and difference of cubes. If we have the expression 125Z cubed minus 1, how can we factor this? Remember that the variables that we picked in the initial original equations are just place holders. It does not matter that we're using the variable Z here and that there's 1 present over here. All that matters in a given expression is the relationship of the 2 terms to one another. The fact that this variable and this variable happen to have the same name does not mean that they are necessarily connected. This time we have a difference of 2 cubes, and the thing that's playing the role of the y cube down here is 125z cubed. This means, that anywhere I have y written up here in the general form, I need to write the cube root of 125z cubed, the cube root of 125 is 5 and the cube root of z cubed is just z so y will be replaced by 5z. Now, instead of z cubed, which was subtracted initially, we have 1, which means that instead of z, I'll put a 1. So again, like I said in the question video, the z cubed up here, in this expression we're interested in, is not at all related to the z cubed in the general expression. These are just placeholder names. Okay, let's plug this stuff in. The thing in the form of y minus z down here is 5z minus 1 and our trinomial is going to be 25z squared plus 5z plus 1. Awesome. That was really great. Over the past few minutes, we've talked about how the sum of two cubes and the difference of two cubes can be factored. And we learned earlier about how the difference of two squares can be factored. Seems logically then like we should also be able to factor the sum of two squares, something in the form a squared plus b squared. What is the factored form of that though? Let's talk about this. Earlier we saw a difference of two squares that was x squared minus 1. So let's turn this into the sum of two squares instead, to see if that is something we can factor. So let's consider x squared plus 1 instead of x squared minus 1. So I'd like you to think through how we might factor x squared plus 1. And if you can find a way to do it, check yes and write in the factors. And if you can't find a way to do it, then check no. The answer is no, there is a another way to factor x square plus 1. We can rewrite this using a middle term as x squared plus 0x plus 1. And if we try to factor this, we're looking for what two numbers a and b add equals 0, and multiply it to equal 1. However, if a plus b equals 0 and that means that a is equal to negative b, that means one of the most negative, and one of the most be positive. And any positive number multiply by negative number gives us the negative number, so their product can't be 1. Now of course, the product would be zero, then this equation would be true, but then their product would be 0 not 1. Either way, there is no way to factor this. This is pretty interesting. In the last lesson we learned that linear factors of polynomials tell us about x-intercepts of the graphs that go along with those polynomials. So if we have an equation like y equals x minus 3 times x plus 1 It's going to have x intercepts of three, zero, and negative one zero. So this is a big part of our motivation for talking about factoring so much. If we can factor a polynomial then we already know all of the places where it hits the x axis. We learned before the linear factors of a polynomial tell us about where the polynomial hits the x axis. On the last quiz, we learned that x squared plus one is not factorable, however, I'm going to expand our statement about x squared plus one and tell you that it is not only not factorable, but it actually has no real linear factors. I know that we're not totally clear on what this means yet, and you'll learn in a few lessons. But let's just explore this briefly for now, touch on it a bit. Considering this, how many places do you think on the graph of y equals x squared plus one touches the x axis? The answer is 0. The graph of y equals x squared plus one doesn't touch the x axis at all. Let's take a peek at the graph. So here is a beautiful graph of y equals x squared plus one, you can see that the lowest point on the parabola is above the x axis. So, the fact that X squared plus 1 doesn't have any real linear factors means that its graph doesn't intersect the X axis. This is a great example of a lot of the things we've been talking about in this lesson. So let's tie all of this work on factoring back to graphs and solving equations. We started off with the equation of a curve, y equals x squared plus 5x plus 6. And we found that we could factor this, which would give us x plus 3 times x plus 2. If we wanted to find the x-intercepts of this curve, we just need to set y equal to 0. And we know that the two values of x that could possibly make this true are if x equals negative 3 or if x equals negative 2. So thinking about this, factoring gives us the power not only to find x-intercepts but also to solve equations. Let's look into this a little bit more. Let's say that we want to solve the equation x squared plus 8 x plus 15 equals 3. Well, we have two options. Our first option is to solve this graphically by plotting the intersection of two different curves. And our second option is to solve this purely algebraically. Let's start out with the first option. So, what two lines should be graph in order to solve this equation graphically? What two lines do we want to intersect? We just need to set y equal to each side of the equation. So our two lines or curves are y equals x squared plus 8x plus 15 and y equals 3. Let's look at what the intersection of these lines actually looks like. So here's a lovely graph, and we can see two points of intersection. At these two points, we'll be able to find x values that satisfy this equation right here. Our second option, however, is to solve this just algebraically. We've solved quadratic equations before, when we're trying to find x intercepts. The only difference between those situations, and this one, is that we have a 3 over here. Remember that a quadratic equation, is anything that can be written in the form Ax squared plus Bx plus C equals 0. The issue here, is that we don't have 0, on this side of the equation, so let's make it happen. How do we do that? You know you just subtract 3 from both sides, that gives us X squared plus 8x plus twelve equals 0. Since you know how to solve this using factoring, I'd like you to tell me the possible solutions for X. In the event that you find X can take on multiple values to make this equation true, please just write all those values in this box but separate them with commas. Factoring this just gives us x plus 6 times x plus 2 equals 0. We know that we'll make this equation true if either x plus 6 is equal to 0 or if x plus 2 is equal to 0. So we can solve for x in both of those cases. So x can either be negative 6 or it can be negative 2. Here's one that I'd like you to do on your own. We have the equation 3x squared plus 7x minus 10 equals 2x squared plus 5x plus 5. And I'd like you to solve for x. Now I know this probably looks really complicated right now because there are a lot of terms on both sides of the equation. But for your first few steps just start out by trying to get it in the general form for a quadratic equation. So with all the terms on one side and with like terms combined, and then just 0 on the other side of the equation. Moving everything over to one side gives us the quadratic equation x squared plus 2 x minus 15 equals 0. From here, we can factor to find the x values that make this equation true. This factors to the quantity x plus 5 times the quantity x minus 3. And the product of those 2 equals 0. Still, that means to make this true, x can either equal negative 5 or x can equal positive 3. Now, let's think about what we're really solving for here. And if we were to do this graphcially what we'll working on. Well, here we have two polynomial set equal to another. Just like in the previous problem, we can solve this problem graphically by setting this side equal to y. And this side equal to y, and then finding the intersection of those two curves. Let's try it out. You can see here that we have two points of intersection on this graph between these two curves. We have one right here, which we see does in fact have an x coordinate of negative 5. And we have one right here, which, if we follow it down, does in fact have an x coordinate of positive 3. What I'd like you to tell me now is what the coordinates of these two points of intersection are. Now I know that this probably seems a little bit tricky to do on the graph, but we can do it algebraically. So thinking about what these parabolas are actually graphs of, which equations they're graphs of, try to solve for the x and y coordinates of these points. We know that in order to graph these two curves, we simply set y equal to each side of the equation that we originally started with. So the two lines that we have are this orange one, whose equation is y equals 3x squared plus 7x minus 10, and this black one whose equation is y equals 2x squared plus 5x plus 5. Now these points of intersection are points that lie on both of these curves. So that means the coordinates these points satisfy each of these equations. We already know the x coordinates of each point so all we need to do now to figure out the corresponding y coordinates is to pick either of these equations and plug in each x coordinate. So I'm kind of feeling this one right here. Doesn't matter which one you choose though. You'll get the same answer regardless of which equation you pick. So starting with this equation I'm going to plug in the negative 5 to see what y value corresponds to that x value on both curves. When I plug in x equals negative 5 I end up with y equals 30. So that means that the coordinates of this point must be negative five comma 30. Now let's do the same thing with x equal three, for this point. Solving for y when x equal three gives us 38, so we have the point three comma 38 as our other point of intersection. Last time we saw Grant, he had just gotten the opportunity to expand the area of his booth at the expo. Now it's 15 feet long and 20 feet wide. As excited as he is about this, we know Grant. He always wants more. He wants to make this booth even bigger. The person in charge of the expo is going to continue the regulation he had before which is that if Grant's going to increase his booth size, he has to do it by the same length in each direction. Let's call that length x, just like we did earlier. However, there's one catch. The expo authorities are adding another restriction to booth size. The area of a given booth is not allowed to exceed 750 square feet. Considering this new rule that's been put in place about area, how should we express the booth area? Are we going to need an equation? Are we going to need an inequality? Or do we need something else? We need an inequality. The fact that the booth area is not allowed to exceed 750 square feet means that we can write an inequality that's something like this. Area is less than or equal to 750. We know that we need an inequality, but what exactly is that inequality? Please think about the new side links of Grant's booth, once he expands, and then, write an inequality relating those to this area restriction. Don't forget area is equal to length times width. Since we know that our area needs to be less than or equal to 750 square feet. We can just replace area on the left side of this inequality with the other way we know how to express it, length times width. And then, plugin those side lengths using these quantities down here. So the new length, of Grant's booth, will be 20 feet, the original 20 feet, plus x, the amount that he's adding on. So we have 20 plus x and then that's multiplying it by the new width, which will be 15 plus x. This quantity will be the new area, which we know must be less than or equal to 750. So here's our inequality. Now that we have an inequality it'd be really, really great if we could help Grant figure out how much he could add on to his booth and still stay under this area requirement of 750 square feet. So if we wanted to solve for x in this inequality, what are we going to end up with? Is that going to give us one solution? Two solutions or an interval of possible solutions. What kind of answer do we get from a quadratic inequality? We look at an interval of possible solutions, a whole range of different numbers that x could equal to satisfy this inequality. However, we don't know how to handle this yet. I guess we have some learning to do. So to help Grant out, we're going to need to be able to solve this inequality. But this is unlike other inequalities we've looked at before, because this is a quadratic inequality. You can see that if we multiplied out the terms here, we'd end up with some term that has an x squared in it. So this isn't linear anymore. Even though, when we're dealing with inequalities, we can do many of the same operations that we can And when working with equation, we do need to be a little bit more careful. Do you remember which situation might at some points cause us to have to switch the direction of inequality. Please check off any of the situations where this might happen depending on what number we are using. We need to make sure that we're super careful when we multiply and divide inequalities. We know that there are certain situations when we need to flip the inequality sign. But when does that happen? Dividing or multiplying by what kind of number causes us to flip the inequality sign? Please pick the best choice down here. We have to flip the inequality sign when we multiply or divide by a negative number. This is still going to be important as we move forward working with quadratic inequalities to. Just a little check in point to see if you remember another super important guideline for algebra. What number should we never ever try to divide by, when we're solving equations and inequalities? We should never try to divide by zero in algebra. So let's pick a quadratic inequality to work with. How about x squared is greater than 16. That's pretty simple, it seems like something good to start our with. What I'd like you to start off by doing, is to modify this inequality so that the only thing on the right hand side is zero. Please write the new version of the inequality in this box. To get zero on the right hand side, we just need to subtract 16 from both sides. We end up with x grade minus 16 is greater than zero. Now that we've go this in nice quadratic form, please factor the left hand side of this inequality. Then write the full inequality in its new version in this box. We've seen things like x squared minus 16 several times before. This is just taking the difference between two squared numbers. And in cases like that, our two factors are almost the same, except the signs, between the two terms are switched. So we have x minus 4 times x plus 4 is greater than 0. Let's pretend for a second that instead of this inequality of x minus four times x plus four is greater than zero, that we had an equation instead. X minus four times x plus four is equal to zero. We saw before that the way we would treat this would be to look at the two different situations that would make the left side equal to 0. This would happen if either x minus 4 is equal to 0, or if x plus 4 is equal to 0. My question for you is then whether or not we should do a similar thing in dealing with this inequality. Should our next step in moving to a solution for x be to solve the two inequalities x minus 4 is greater than 0, and x plus 4 is greater than 0? The answer is no. This should definitely not be your next step. Why, you might ask? Well, in order to get from this inequality to either one of these, we need to effectively divide both sides by the factor that we're not using in the final inequality we're looking at. Let's say that we wanted to get from this quadratic inequality to looking at this linear one, x plus 4 is greater than zero. Well to get x plus 4 by itself on the left side you would have to divide both sides of the inequality by the quantity x minus 4, however we don't know what x is equal to here and because of that we don't know what number we are dividing both sides by, that means this variable could be a negative number and if that's the case. We don't know which direction the final sign for x plus 4 is greater than 0 should actually point. So bottom line, this is not the approach we need to take. We need to do something different. Even though we can't split this into two separate inequalities and solve, this inequality does tell us something. It tells us that the values of x 4 and negative 4 are really important. If we did consider each of these factors by itself an inequality these two points would be the end points of the solution intervals. So let's say then that we're going to use these two points to break the entire number lineup into three sections. One over here, one in the middle and one over here. Now that we have these three different regions in our number line, I'd like you to label each of those intervals with an inequality that tells us what values of x lie in that interval. Make sure that you exclude negative four and four. Our three inequalities describing these three intervals, are x is less than negative 4, which is over here, the region to the left of negative 4. Negative 4 is less than x which is less than 4, which is this interval in the middle. And lastly on the far right of our number line, x is greater than 4. Now that we know that these three intervals are important in some way, I would imagine that they each represent or don't represent solutions of x in different ways. What I would like to know is whether values within each reasons satisfy or don't satisfy the original inequality we had, x squared is greater than 16. So for each interval, start out by picking a value for x that lies in that interval. And then, secondly, check to see if that value satisfies this inequality. Values of x that are less than negative 4 do satisfy this inequality. Values of x that lie between negative 4 and 4 do not and values of x that are greater than 4 do satisfy it. For this far left inevitable/g we could pick a number like negative 5. We plug that in to the left side at this inequality. We get negative 5 squared which is 25. Then we compare it to the right side and yes 25 is greater than 16. Between negative 4 and 4, my favorite number would be 0. 0 squared is just equal to 0. But 0 is less than 16. So the numbers in this interval don't satisfy this inequality. Lastly, over on the right, I'll pick 5. 5 squared is 25, which is, in fact, greater than 16, like we saw before. Now that we've talked about our regions and whether or not our inequality is satisfied in each of them. Let's make a table to figure out the value of each of the individual factors within each region and how that affects the value of the entire quantity that we're interested in, in our inequality. Remember, you don't need to actually use the inequality we're talking about in this table itself, but I'll write it here just for reference. So in each column think about the quantity at the top. Either x minus 4x plus 4, or the product of those two and then for each of these intervals or values, this on the left tell me if quantity is positive, negative, or 0. So for example If I'm thinking about x minus 4 and I let x equal something greater then 4, then x minus 4 is going to be positive. So fill in the table just like that. Here's our filled in table. I'd like you to think for a second about how you could figure out the signs that belong in the furthest right column just based on the two columns to the left of it. From our table here we can see that the quantity x minus four times the quantity x plus four is positive, or greater than zero, only when x is either less than negative four or greater than positive four. So, these must be the intervals of values of x that satisfy our original inequality. Since we now know that x minus 16 is greater than zero, it satisfied when either x is less than eight of four or x is greater than four. Can you tell me about the solution set to sort of a related inequality. X squared minus 16 is less than or equal to 0. Of course, you can use our table down here for reference. And I'd like you to write the answer using interval notation. Remember, that involves brackets that are either square or round. Two numbers inside and then comas in between those numbers, and of course, you can combine the brackets differently depending on what you need for the interval. And our answer is negative 4 comma 4, with square brackets on both sides. We can find this out pretty easily using the table. We want x squared minus 16, which is, of course, the distributed form of x minus 4 times x plus 4. We want that quantity to, to be less than or equal to 0. They are basically interested in all of the rows in the table, for which this right column does not contain a plus sign. So that's these 3 in the middle right here. It means our interval goes from staring at negative 4 and including that, all the way to positive 4 and including that as well. Which is what we have written here. We haven't really used graphs to help us solve inequalities but it is possible. Thinking about how we could graphically solve equations which of these graphs do you think will help us show the inequality x squared is greater than 16. And which one do you think will help us show x squared minus 16 is greater than 0? Fill in either a or b in each box. Graph B can help us visualize the first inequality, and graph A can help us visualize the second one. Now, we're not totally there yet in terms of the actual inequalities themselves, but at least in both cases, we now have the curves and lines graph that we need in order to show these inequalities on the graphs. Remember that when we were dealing with solving equations graphically, you could look at both sides of an equation and set each one individually equal to y, and then graph the two equations that gave us. So in this first graph over here, which we know of course belongs to x squared minus 16 is greater than zero. I've graphed the parabola, y equals x squared minus 16, and I've graphed the line, y equals zero. Just the x-axis. Over here in coordinate plane b, I've graphed the parabola y equals x squared, and the line y equals 16. We know that the solutions to these two inequalities will each be intervals of values of x. Which if we think about these graphs is going to correspond to selecting certain portions of each of these curves. The points that lie in those regions that are selected will have x coordinates that satisfy The corresponding inequality. So for each of these inequalities, I'd like to tell you whether solutions can be found above the purple line in either graph, or below it, or maybe both or it maybe neither, you pick. You pick. For the first inequality, we are basically looking for y-values along the pink curve that are greater than the y-value of the purple curve, since the pink corresponds with the left side of the equation and the purple corresponds with the right side of the equation, I mean, when the left to be greater than right. So, the line y equals x squared minus 16 is above the line y equals 0, well, above the purple line. That means that the x -value of any point, on the pink line that's above the purple line, should satisfy this inequality. Lets check one just to be sure. Well these end points, these points of the intersection, are the points negative 4, 0 and 4, 0. So, that means that the x-values in this region above the purple line, x is less than negative 4 in this portion of the curve, and x is greater than 4 over here. And remember, that was the solution set we found for this inequality so that's perfect. Almost exactly the same thing happens in graph b. Again, solutions are found above the purple line since we want x squared to be greater than 16 and y equals 16 is the purple line. The points of intersection, in this case, are negative 4, 16 and 4, 16. Even though the y-values of those points are different, the x-values are exactly the same. In fact, this graph is simply the same as a, just shifted upward 16. To be clear, each inequality that we're looking at only has one variable in it. We only care about x-values. What these graphs help us do is portion out the coordinate planes that we can see which x-values do satisfy these equations. So, over here in graph a, any points in either the region to the left or this region to the right, we'll have x-values that satisfy this equation. The areas that aren't shaded in are areas where we can't guarantee whether or not the x-values will satisfy this, and we have a similar thing happening in graph b. I know that connecting graphs to inequalities in this way might seem a little bit confusing at first, but hopefully you at least thought that it was interesting. We spent quite a while on the last inequality. So let's move on to a new one, x squared plus 2x minus 35 is less than or equal to 0. Remember that the way we started out with the last inequality was to factor the expression over here. So please factor the left side and then rewrite the entire inequality in this box. When we factor this, we get the quantity x plus 7 times the quantity x minus 5 is less than or equal to 0. Now that we've factored, I'm interested in, how this factoring splits up our number line. So were going to work toward completing this table. And I'ld like you to start off by telling me what intervals, this splits our number line into, and then also write in the critical values of x right here. At which the splits happen. For the purposes of defining these intervals in values of x, don't include these two endpoints inside these intervals. The way that we factor it tells us that our two critical values, the two points that are splitting our number line up are x equals negative 7 and x equals 5. So I start by writing those. Then we just need to fill in the intervals surronding those values. We have x is less than negative seven then we have the region between negative 7 and 5. So negative seven is less than x which is less than five. And then lastly, x is greater than five. Now that we've got our table all set up, it's time to fill it in. For each box, say whether of the quantity of the column it's in, becomes positive, negative, or 0, in a specified interval. Looking at our original inequality, and the signs of these different quantities that we've come up with for these various intervals, I'd like you to check off which of these intervals, or values of x, does seem to satisfy our original inequality. Then I'd like you to write the solution as an inequality in this box. We want the quantity x squared plus 2x minus 35, which is equivalent to the product of x plus 7 and x minus 5. To be either less than 0 or equal to 0, which corresponds to these 3 squares right here. The intervals that go with those rows are x equals negative 7, negative 7 is less than x is less than 5 and x equals 5. 5 that gives us the inequality negative 7 is less than or equal to x, which is less than or equal to 5, awesome. That means that any values of x from negative 7 to 5 including those 2 numbers, work to make this inequality true. Now, I think we're at a point where we can really help Grant solve this inequality. We have the quantity 15 plus x times the quantity 20 plus x, less than or equal to 750 to describe how the expanded side links of his booth area will determine a total area that needs to be less than or equal to 750 square feet. What I'd like you to do know is do a little bit of algebra. To get this in a quality in a form so that we can have 0 on the right hand side and then an expression on the left hand side, so I would like you to start out actually by simplifying the expression on the left and then getting rid of the 750 on the right side, in other words, I'd like you to simplify the left-hand side of the inequality as much as you can. The first thing we need to do in order to simplify this and modify the equation is to multiply out the product of these two binomials. That way, when we subtract 750 from both sides we can very easily combine like terms and simplify. You'll notice I've written the expression on the left in the standard form for polynomials but the highest degree term first. Great. So we have x squared plus 35x minus 450 is less than or equal to 0. Now that we have our quadratic inequality written out very nicely, I'd like you to figure out what the critical values of x that are going to divide up our number line are, and then what intervals those critical values determine. Just a hint. You should probably start by factoring the expression on the left. Also when you write your intervals out at the end, I'd like you to write them as inequalities. Factoring the expression on the left gives us x plus 45 plus x minus 10 times x minus 10 is less than or equal to 0. So our 2 critical values for x then that are going to split up our number line are negative 45 and 10. Our interval then, that we get from these critical numbers are x is less than or equal to negative 45. Negative 45 is less than or equal to x, which is less than or equal to 10, and 10 is less than or equal to x. Here, we include the critical values in each of these intervals, because we have a less than or equal to sign, not just a less than sign. We know that if x equals either of these critical values, the expression will actually equal 0 and that means it definitely would satisfy the inequality. So we want to test these intervals. We want to include those critical values in each of them. You're so close to being done. Now we come up with our three intervals for which we need to test a value to figure out what the solution set for x is. So test values from within each of these intervals and then write what you think the solution for x is as an inequality and then also as an interval. if we pick a value within each of these intervals for only one that satisfies this inequality this value is from the middle interval. Negative 45 is less than or equal to x is less than equal to 10. We can write this using interval notation as negative 45, 10 with square brackets. So we just solve this inequality to come up with an interval of solutions for x. Negative 45 is less than or equal is less than or equal to 10. So to satisfy this inequality x can take on any values from negative 45 to ten, including both of those values. But remember, we're not just dealing with any numbers here. We're talking about Grant's expo booth. Remember that x is equal to the length that Grant should add to the booth dimensions in each direction. So my question is, does this solution make complete sense in the context of Grant's expo booth? The answer is no. Not completely. If x is suppose to be a length, it probably doesn't makes sense to add negative 45 feet, to a room length. Distances can't really be negative. Thinking about what we talked about in the last quiz, what values can x have for Grant's story, then? Write this as an inequality. Remember, that this restriction, that we're going to place here, does not in any way, change the fact that, mathematically speaking, this is the correct answer, as a solution, for this inequality. We're just trying to take real life into account now. We've been working with quadratic inequalities and clearly linear inequalities before that, but a lot of the techniques that we've learned to use can actually be used in a number of other kinds of situations too. Now we're going to take a second to talk about rational inequalities, which are things like this, for example. The quantity 2x minus 18 divided by the quantity x minus 4 is greater than or equal to 0. The reason this is called a rational inequality is because the left side over here is an example of a rational expression. Remember when we talked about rational numbers early Julie pointed out that the word ratio is inside the word rational. So while a rational number is just the ratio of 2 integers. We will remember the denominator is not allowed to be 0, and rational expression seems to be pretty closely related. It's just the ratio of two polynomials. And like with rational numbers, the denominator is not equal to zero. Thinking back to what I just said about rational numbers and rational expressions, especially in relation to the denominator, what number is x not allowed to equal in this particular inequality? Again, this doesn't have to do with the actual solutions. Stating this answer doesn't require actually figuring out the solution to this question. I am merely asking you, right off the bat, what can we say that x is not allowed to equal? The answer is 4. If x were equal to 4 then the denominator would become 0, and you can't divide by 0. So great, we've already narrowed down our set of choices for the value of x. When we talked about quadratic inequalities, it referred to things called critical numbers. These are the numbers that divided up our number line into the different intervals that we could consider to figure out which ranges of values satisfied our inequalities. For quadratic inequalities, we got these numbers from factoring and depending on what rational expressions we have that maybe the case as well. But we can generalize about it. You remember that for quadratic inequalities, we found our critical values by figuring out which values of x would cause the quadratic expression to equal 0. And we basically have the same requirement for rational inequalities except that this time, we have one polynomial divided by another polynomial. So, you have two different sources of critical numbers. In either case, whether we're talking about the numerator or the denominator, we'll come up with a critical value for every value of x that will make either one of those 0. Considering this method for finding critical numbers, what critical numbers do you find for this inequality that we were just talking about? If you happen to find more than one critical number, then please separate them by commas. We already said that the value of X that makes the denominator equal to 0, which is the first way that we can find a critical number was 4, so that will be one of them. The other way we can look for critical numbers is to set the numerator equal to 0 and solve for X. So if we set 2 X minus 18 equal to 0 we end up with X equals 9. So that must be our other one. We just said that the critical numbers of this rational inequality are 4 and 9. So these two values are going to split the number line into several parts, and those intervals, and these values are things that we can test to figure out what values of x satisfy this inequality. So I'd like you to start out by doing something very similar to what we did for quadratic inequalities. And filling in this column over here with intervals and values for x, starting the left side of the number line and working right. As we did before with tables, I don't want you, in this case, to include critical points in these intervals right here. I want these to be noninclusive intervals. Oh, and one other note, I'd like you to write these intervals using inequality notation. The furthest left region on the number line starts at negative infinity and goes up until 4. So in that region, all values of x are less than 4. The next important value we have is x equals 4. Then, we have the values of x that lie between 4 and 9. Next, we have x equal to 9. And lastly, the values of x that are greater than 9. Now finally lets fill in this table. For each quantity up here please testify you at either in the interval in the left or the value itself if its inequality and then stay in each box whether the quantity is positive, negative or zero when that x value is put in. One other note, in this far right column if any of the values over here makes the denominator equal to 0, then I want you to write the word undefined in that box over here. Here's the filled in version of the table. You'll notice that we did end up with one spot in this far right column where we had to write undefined and that was where x equals 4. We set x equal to 4, the denominator here becomes 0. And since we know that division is not allowed, it's not something we can interpret using our algebra skills, you have to write undefined in this box. It makes the entire fraction, the entire rational expression undefined. Whereas, when we were dealing with quadratic inequalities, we were multiplying two factors together. Now, we're dividing them. But what's interesting to note is that we have the same relationship between signs of the first two columns and the sign of the third column. If we're dividing two negative numbers, we get a positive number. If we're dividing a negative by a positive or the reverse, a positive by a negative, we get a negative number. And if we're dividing two positive numbers, we get a positive. Of course, zero is the exception, 0 divided by any number, regardless of positive or negative, is 0. And any number, whether positive or negative divided by 0, is going to give us an undefined answer. Thinking about what kind of value we want our entire rational expression to take on, which of these intervals is going to satisfy our inequality? For each row, if the inequality corresponding to it does, then check it off. This first one, x is less than 4, and these last two, x is equal to 9 and x is greater than 9, all satisfy our rational inequality. All we have to do now is explicitly write down the solution for the values of x that satisfy this inequality. First, I'd like you to write the solution using inequalities to show the ranges of x and then, I'd like you to write it in interval notation. Be really careful about where on a number line these intervals fall, and think back to what we learned about compound inequalities. These use either, or, in-between two inequalities or and, where things with and can be written using the change notation, or something similar to this. Remember also how compound inequalities translate into interval notation. If you need to review any of this, you can always go back to a previous lesson to look it up and refresh your memory. Or you can go to the forums, they're always there to help you. Looking at these intervals that we said satisfy our inequality, the first one tells us that x can be less than 4. That inequality is part of our solution. However there's this other interval down here, that also has some acceptable solutions. That's from x equals 9 and onward, so we can have x is less than 4, or x is greater than or equal to 9. So you can see already, how useful and really necessary using a table like this is, to come up with the solutions for rational inequalities. It's not even always easy to tell whether or not your intervals will contain or not contain the endpoints. So we just need to be really careful and write out all of our steps. In interval notation, we can express these intervals. The first one goes from negative infinity to 4, neither endpoint being included. And as united, we write that with this capital U with the interval 9 to infinity where 9 is included, and infinity, of course is not. Since you did so well with the last rational inequality I gave you, here's another one. We have 18 minus x over 3x minus 6 is less than 5. This is great, except for one big issue. In order to find our critical points, we're going to need zero on one side of our inequality. So, first things first. Can you tell me what we need to do to get 0 on the right hand side over here? What do we need to do to both sides of the inequality to make this happen? In this box, I'd like you to fill in the proper operator and number that we need to do to both sides. So for example, you could add a number, you could subtract a number, you can multiply a number, or you could divide by a number. We need to subtract 5 on both sides. When we subtract 5 from both sides, we have a new inequality, or a new version of our old inequality. We have 18 minus X over 3 X minus 6 minus 5 is less than 0. We want to make it, though, so that everything on the left side of our inequality is part of a single rational expression. In order to make this all one fraction we need to start by getting this extra term, the minus five, to have the same denominator as the first term. So, what would the numerator of an equivielent fraction that's equal to five be if the denominator is 3x minus 6? Remember, I've already written the sign out here, so we're going to subtract all of whatever you write in here. Try a fraction that's equivalent to 5, but has a denominator of 3x minus 6. We need to multiply it by 1 in the form of 3x minus 6 divided by itself. To distribute multiplication by 5 to each term in the numerator, we get 15x minus 30, as the numerator of this fraction. Now take one more step and write the entire left side of our inequality as a single rational expression. So combine these two fractions into a single fraction. Be sure to simplify the numerator of new fraction as much as you can. The first thing we need to do is just distribute this negative sign to both terms in the numerator of our second fraction. Then since these fractions have the same denominator, we can write them as a single fraction. If 18 minus x minus 15x plus 30, then we combine like terms. That gives us a rational expression of negative 16x plus 48 over 3x minus 6. And of course this is still set as less than 0, since we haven't done anything to change both sides of the equation yet, that would affect the sign in the middle. Now that we have a single fraction on one side of our inequality, and zero on the other side, we can finally start to solve for x. First of all, what are the critical numbers here? What does x need to equal to make the numerator zero? And what does it need to equal to make the denominator zero? These will be our two critical numbers. Negative 16x plus 48 will be equal to 0 if x equals 3. And 3x minus 6 will equal 0 if x equals 2. Our critical numbers tell us how to separate the number line into different regions or different intervals for us to test, using this inequality. So check each of those three regions that are separated by these critical numbers, and also check the critical numbers themselves in the inequality. And then figure out for which intervals values of x satisfy this inequality. I'd like you to write these intervals as inequalities, however. I always need to use a table when I'm solving rational inequalities and quadratic ones for that matter, so here is my filled out table. Now I can just read off which of these regions contains x values that make this fraction or this rational expression negative. So that's just this first reqion, which is x is less than two, and the second region x is greater than 3. [inaudible] Since on a number line these two regions do not overlap, we have to use an or since no value of x can fall inside both regions. So the solution is, x is less than 2 or x is greater than 3. Let's take a second to think about how we could visualize this inequality using graphs. So here I've plotted 2 Equations. I plotted Y equals negative 16 X plus 48, over the quantity 3 minus 6, and the purple line is just the line Y equals 0. The X axis. We want to know according to our inequality when this line, the pink one, lies underneath the purple one. We want to know when the Y values of this curve drop below this curve. So we can see that, that's every part that's going to happen for all X values except for those in the very small portion of the curve that's up here. We can see that this matches the solution we came up with. This curve lies below this one, anywhere beyond this point, where x is equal to 3. And anywhere in this part of the graph. This line right here that represents the disconnect between these 2 portions of the pink graph. Goes straight through the .20. And, in fact, this is the line, x equals 2. We can see that the entire part of the pink graph that's to the left of this, or that has x values less than 2, is underneath the purple curve. So this fits what we found. Awesome. Since we're on a roll with rational inequalities, let's do one more. We have 1 over x plus 2 is greater than 3 over 2x minus 4. You know that in order to find critical values, we need 0 on one side of the equation. So, that means we need to pick one side of the inequality to get all of our terms on. It doesn't matter which one we pick, right and left are both totally fine, and we'll get the same answer. But I'm kind of leaning to the left today, so for the first part of the problem, I'd like you to rewrite this equation so that all of the terms are on the left-hand side, making the right-hand side equal to 0. To get 0 on the right-hand side, we just subtract the fraction we originally had there from both sides. So we end up with 1 over x plus 2, minus 3 over 2x minus 4, and that's greater than 0. We don't have to flip the sign here or anything, because we're just subtracting, we're not multiplying or dividing by a negative. Now we need to combine these two fractions into a single fraction. The first step to that is figuring out the simplest common denominator we can come up with for them, then make both fractions have this denominator, and then combine them. So I'd like you to do all of this and then enter your new single rational expression on the left hand side in this box. The least common multiple of X plus 2 and 2x minus 4 is just their product, X plus 2 times X minus 4. In order to make our first fraction have that denominator, we need to multiply it by 2x minus over 2x minus 4. And we need to multiply by the second fraction to have achieve the same end goal by X plus 2 over X plus 2. Once I've written out what each of these fractions is With the same denominator, I can think about how to combine the numerators. We'll be able to just add the numerators together since they have the same denominator. So, when we do that, the numerators going to be 2X minus 4 minus 3 times X plus 2. So, I'll simplify that and then put it in the fraction, this is just going to save me some space. This simplifies to negative X minus 10. Or if I want to pull out a factor of negative 1, negative in parentheses x plus 10. Then I can write the negative sign outside of the entire fraction and put x plus 10 as the numerator. Awesome. Now we have a very beautiful looking rational expression on the left hand side, and that's set in this inequality, with a 0 on the right hand side. Now we're in a position where we can find the critical numbers for this rational inequality. So think back to how we find critical numbers and what they mean. Remember they're the numbers that are going to split up our number line. And please type all the critical numbers that you can find in this box. Are critical numbers. Are found when x equals negative 10, negative 2 or 2. Remember that these are the numbers that make ither the numerator equal 0 or the denominator equal 0. So we found 3 critical numbers and we know that we're going to have to test each of these in an equality to see whether or not it's included in this solution set. But in addition to these 3 critical numbers, how many intervals are we going to need to test? How does this critical number makes up the number line? If we plot these 3 critical numbers on our number line, you can see that they split the number line into 4 intervals. One to the left of negative 10, the one in between negative 10 and negative 2, the one between negative 2 and 2, and the one to the right of 2. So the answer is 4. Finally I'd like you to solve for x. Please write your answer using interval notation. So here, I have redrawn our number line, and for each region, I've picked out a value to test to see whether it satisfies our inequality. First, let's test x equals negative 11. Now, you might think that we need to actually plug negative 11 in and find out all the numbers here, but all we really care about is the sign of this entire expression. We just want to know whether or not it's positive. So, what I'm going to do is just think about whether or not each of the factors here, we have 3 of them, is positive or negative. And then, of course, I also need to take into account the negative sign that's on the outside. So, I'll write that one first. We have a negative sign on the outside. If I plug in negative 11 here, negative 11 plus 10 is a negative number, so we have negative and negative in the numerator. And then in the denominator, we have a negative number for this factor and a negative number for this factor. Four negatives multiplied or divided together, gives us a positive number. So, this region works. Now, let's do the same thing for negative 5. And going through the same sorts of steps for the next 3, it turns out that only this region, the first one you found in the area between negative 2 and 2, yield positive solutions. Let's check the 3 critical values this way also. Notice that when we plug in negative 10, we end up with 0 for the numerator. That means, that this entire fraction can never be greater than 0. So, negative 10 is not part of our solution set. Negative 2 and positive 2 each make the expression on the left-hand side contain a division by 0, so these cannot be part of our solution set either. Great. So, we have these two intervals to take into account. We have the interval negative infinity to negative 10, united with the interval negative 2 to 2. Awesome. That's our solution. Great job with some really tough work on quadratic inequalities and rational inequalities. I know there are a lot of steps in all these problems, but I helped you develop a little bit of independence in figuring out how to solve these kinds of inequalities. They're pretty cool, too. I'm going to do one more quick thing and show you graphically what this inequality might look like. As one final explanation for this lesson, let's see if there's a different inequality we can look at that can give us this same solution set. I'm just quickly going to rewrite the original inequality that we have, and see if I can modify it to simplify it a little bit. One thing I'd like you to notice, is that this negative sign outside of the entire expression, is going to effectively multiply either both terms in the numerator by negative 1 or multiply the entire denominator by negative 1. So, we can consider this a common factor of, for example, both terms in the numerator. There's one more common factor within one of the quantities here, and that's 2, in the quantity 2x minus 4. Both 2x and negative 4 are divisible by 2. Let's rewrite this. Because multiplication is commutative, I can move these factors around however I want. And I think what I'd like to do is to write this factor of negative 1 half, as a single constant outside of the rest of the terms multiplying that fraction. Now, we can very clearly see that there's this factor out here, this constant factor, that we can just divide both sides by to get rid of. However, since we will be dividing by a fraction, we can equivalently just multiply it by its reciprocal or multiply by negative 2, on both sides, of course. Now, here's the kicker. Remember, that since we're multiplying by a negative number on both sides, we need to switch the direction of the inequality. So now, we have this new inequality, x plus 10 over the quantity x plus 2 times the quantity x minus 2 is less than 0. And in fact, if you went through the entire process of solving for x here, you'd find that the solution set for this inequality is exactly the same as the solution set for this inequality up here. And we can tell why that's the case. These are equivalent. We move from this one to this one using completely legal algebraic modifications. Let's see how graphs can help us understand this inequality a little bit better. So now as you might have guessed I've graphed the lines y equals x plus 10 over the quantity x plus 2 times the quantity x minus 2, and of course our x axis. What are we interested in finding now? Well because we have a less than 0 here we want to see where the pink curve lies below the purple curve or below the X axis. This region down here, this sort of upside down u definitely does. And as you would expect, the x values here lie between negative 2 and 2, although this curve will never actually have points with either of these two x values. We'll talk about that more in a few lessons. Get excited, it's pretty cool stuff. For the other part of our solution Where x lies between negative infinity and negative ten. We once again, have a bit of a hard time telling that the curve drops below the x axis here. But of course, you could plug in values for x that are less than negative ten, and test this out yourself. I think this is pretty cool though. You can use multiple graphs to demonstrate the same solution sets. And we can see how 2 inequalities look completely different, or at least pretty different to me, yield the exact same solutions. Now that Grant's has such great ideas from the glasses expo about how to run his business, and how to make all of his different products better, he's ready to get his glasses wipers, and nozzles onto the market. That means that it's time to talk about profit again. A while ago, Grant picked out some prices for his wipers and his nozzles, but he wants to use the algebra skills we've taught him, to check out if these really are the best choices he can make. So lets revisit the idea of profit for a moment. If profit, which we'll call p, is equal to the money that Grant earns, minus the money that he spends, and if we call money spent m, then can you write an equation for profit, involving just single letter variables? Assume that the money that they earned is only coming from wipers, and that the number of wiper sets sold is equal to n, and the price per wiper set is equal to c. The answer is p equals nc minus m. This is just a simple case of substitution, like we've done many times before. We do need to pay close attention to the money earned term right here. If Grant is only earning money from wiper set sales, then the money he brings in is going to be equal to the number of wiper sets he sells times the price per wiper set. This equation that we just developed is a great start. But one thing that Grant learned from a businessman at the expo, is that the price of an item actually effects the number of it that you can sell. So, in this case that would mean that n actually depends on c. If we let the horizontal axis here represent the price of an item, or c, and the vertical axis, represent the number of the item we sell, n. Which of these graphs best represents the relationship between c and n? Think about what each of them says about how change in the price will affect the number of units sold. This is a pretty simplistic view of economics, but just think about which of these is the best choice out of the four. This one would be correct or at least the most correct of these four. As the price per item goes up, the number of units sold goes down. People are going to be less and less willing to purchase an item, the more and more expensive it is. Based on data from competitors at the expo, Grant thinks that he will sell 14,000 wiper sets in a month if he lets them cost $20 per set. And he thinks it will sell 2000 in a month if he lets them cost $80 each. I'd like you to write an equation in slope-intercept form that relates the number of wiper sets sold to the price per wiper set. I'd like you to use this information to write an equation in slope-intercept form that relates the number of wiper sets sold in a month to the price per wiper set. We're trying to develop a linear equation based off of two points of data that we have. Remembering that our graphs earlier had c on the horizontal axis and n on the vertical axis, we can translate this information into two points. We have the point 20,14,000 and the point 80, 2,000, we can now use these two points to find the slope of a line connecting them and then pick one of these two points to use with the slope in the point-slope form. The slope of the line connecting these two points, we can find is negative 200. I chose to use the point 80, 2,000, along with the slope, to create a point-slope form of this equation for this line, and then I transform that to be in slope-intercept form. So our final answer is, n equals negative 200 c plus 18,000. Grant just doesn't care about how many wipers he sells though. He really cares about the money he's going to bring in, or his profit, which we came up with this equation for earlier. And I'd like you do now, is substitute in this new equation we have for n, the number of wipers that's sold, as it depends on c, the price per wiper set. Please simplify this equation as much as you can. We should come up with an equation for p, that doesn't actually mention n anywhere, or at least not explicitly. All we need to do here is substitute this expression into the slot for n and the equation for p. Once we've done that, we just distribute multiplication by c to the two terms in the parentheses here. And that gives us a final answer of p equals negative 200 c squared plus 18,000 c minus m. Our equation for profit is looking really good. Except, right now, I have no idea what m is equal to. Remember that m is just the money that Grant has spent. Now, we've talked many times before about how the money that Grant spends is going to be a combination of fixed costs, like his rent, for example, and costs that scaled the number of items that he makes or the manufacturing costs. Let's say that each glasses wiper set costs $10 to make, and that Grant makes exactly as many wiper sets as he sells. In addition, all these fixed costs together, equal $20,000 per month. If all of this is the case, then how shall we change the equation for Grant's profit each month? I'd like you to first calculate m, the money that Grant spends each month, and then plug this value for n into the equation that we had for p before. Then, simplify to get your final answer. I know this is a lot to think about in one problem and there are several steps here. So, just make sure you go through things slowly, take everything one step at a time, and write all of your work down on a piece of paper. Our first step is going to be to calculate m, the amount of money that Grant spends each month. Here are the two important pieces of information that we got from the question. We can replace fixed costs with 20,000. Since we know that each wiper set costs $10 to make, and Grant makes n wiper sets, going to have 20,000 plus 10n equaling m. That means we can now take this quantity and replace it in the spot of m in our equation for p. Since we're subtracting m, we need to make sure that we're subtracting this entire quantity, both terms. This looks pretty good right now, but remember you want to replace n here. With the expression that we found in terms of c which was just negative 200c plus 18,000. Now, we can finally go through and simplify our equation. This gives us a final equation for p of, miraculously, negative 200c squared plus 20,000c minus 200,000. So, let's graph this new equation for profit. Which of the four graphs over here do you think best represents this equation? The answer is c, this red curve. To figure this out, we could plug a few values for c into our equation and find the corresponding values for p. Those c and p values will be the coordinates of points on this graph. So, this is interesting. As we could have guessed from our equation, since we have a c squared term, we have a parabola. This is going to give us a great opportunity to use some of the skills that we learned in the last few lessons, and also some new ones. Here's the graph of our equation for profit in terms of price per wiper blade, by itself. Looking at this, what price do you think that Grant should set per wiper set in order to maximize his profit? Remember that, the horizontal axis here is price per wiper set, and the vertical axis here is profit. And the answer is $50. We're looking for the peak of this parabola, which is at this point right here. We trace this down, the spot it corresponds to on the horizontal axis, you see it's directly between 40 and 60, so it should be 50, or $50. We've got this wonderful equation but yet again, Grant has neglected to take everything into account that he needs to think about in terms of his finances. It turns out that his rent actually went up $10,000 per month. And he forgot to tell us that in the information we used to create this equation. So thinking about this new piece of information, how do we modify our equation for profit? Think about this carefully. If Grant's rent increases, then the amount of money that he spends will increase. So think about what that should do for profit overall. Our new equation for profit is going to look pretty much the same as the old one, except, we need to change this constant term on the end to be 10,000 lower than it was before. If Grant's rent increases, then his overall profit is going to decrease by a set amount. Now that we have this new equation, we're also going to have a new graph. So what do we need to change about our old graph, or the graph of the old equation, to make it match this new equation? Do we need to shift it up by 10,000, shift it down by 10,000, shift it to the right 10,000 or shift it to the left 10,000? We need to shift the graph down by 10,000, or in other words, the new graph will be 10,000 lower than the old graph. This is because Grant's profit, the p values, are all the vertical values on the graph will be each 10,000 lower than they were in the old graph. Let's take a look at this for a second. Here are the graphs for our old equation, the one in red. And our new equation, the one in blue. And we can see that the blue graph is shifted just below the red one. It's shifted down by 10,000. So the p coordinate of every single point along the blue curve is 10.000 lower. And the p coordinate of the point with the same c coordinate on the red curve. So it looks like changing the constants as final terms out here can shift the graph in vertical direction and we have a parabola. That's pretty interesting. To try to compensate for the higher amount that Grant now has to spend on rent, he wants to increase all the possible wiper set prices that he could set by $4. Before, we represented a potential wiper set price by c, so my question is what do we need to replace c with now? Instead of charging c dollars for a given wiper set, how much should he charge now? If we want the new wiper set prices to be 4 higher than they were before, Grant is going to need to charge c plus 4 dollars instead of c dollars. Now that we've thought a little bit about how increasing the price of all wiper sets would affect our variables, what's your new equation for profit be? Think about the answer for the last quiz to come up with this result. Also, make sure you simplify the right hand side of our new equation as much as you can. In the quiz before this one, we said that if we wanted to increase each potential wiper set price by $4, we should replace c with c plus 4. So that's exactly what I've done. In our new equation, everywhere we had the quantity c in the old equation, we now have a c plus 4. Note that we need to insert c plus 4 with parentheses around it so that whatever operator was applied to c applies to both parts of c and of 4. Now, we just need to simplify this expression. After a few steps, we finally get to a final equation of p equals negative 200 c squared plus 18,400 c minus 133,200. We just saw that if we replaced c in our original equation with c plus 4, we end up with a simplified equation that is what I just read off. Now, I'd like to show you how the graphs of the old equation and the new equation compare. The first equation we had is shown by this blue curve, and the new equation is shown by this orange yellow one. Now, the difference between these two graphs is really that the orange one is shifted four units to the left of the blue one. And we can see that shift written in the equation in the first version of the new equation that we had, where we have these c plus 4s visible. However, this form is really not very pretty, which is why we wanted to simplify it. Although the simplified version looks better, we can't see this shift. The situation for horizontal shifts then, seems kind of different from the vertical shifts situation. We saw earlier that if we wanted to lower a graph, we just needed to change this constant term, in order to change all of the vertical values. I think we're going to need new form for the equation of a parabola, in order to show changes in horizontal direction a little bit more clearly. If we are going to be talking about shifting parabolas around, we should probably have a sort of point of reference, a standard parabola that we can compare all the parabolas to. So I'd like you to tell me what the simplest equation you can think of for a parabola is. I've already filled in the y equals part for you, so just fill in the rest on the right side. The equation should be y equals x squared. Remember, that in order to graph a parabola, we need to have a squared term in our equation, and this needs to be the highest power of any term. If we started with a graph of our super simple equation, y equals x squared, what do we need to do to shift the graph of this down three units? So, in other words, what equation would produce a graph that is shifted down 3 from the graph of y equals x squared. Fill in the rest of the equation in this box. The equation would need to be y equals x squared minus 3. Let's look at that graph. Here, the graph of y equals x squared is this red curve and the graph of y equals x squared minus 3 is the greenish-yellow one. You can see that these curves are actually identical. The only difference comes from the presence of this minus 3 in the equation, y equals x squared minus 3. This shifts the graph down 3 units. If we shifted the green curve up 3, then it would exactly overlap with the red one. This is pretty interesting. This is exactly what we saw earlier when we were dealing with Grant's profit equation and graph. When we changed the constant term on the end, it moved the graph up and down. What if instead we wanted to shift the graph of y equals x squared up 3 units? What equation would we need then? The equation we need to get a graph that's just shifted up from the graph of y equals x squared by three units, is y equals x squared plus 3. Just as we saw with y equals x squared minus 3, where every point on the lower parabola was just three units below the corresponding points on the red one, this time, everything in the green parabola is three units higher than everything in the red parabola. So if you move the green parabola down three units, it would exactly match the red one. So you see that adding constant terms to the side of the parabola equation that has x on it, moves the entire equation up. And subtracting constant terms over here moves it down. Right now, when we have the equation y equals x squared minus 3. The part of the equation showing the shift in the graph, compared to y equals x squared, is on the right hand side of the equation, next to the x term. But what if I wanted the shift to be shown on the left side of the equation, where the y is. After all, that's the direction we're moving things in, the vertical one. So what I'd like you to is rewrite this equation so the constant term is on the left hand side, next to the y, instead of on the right hand side. Through of the constant term from being on the right-hand side to being on the left-hand side, we usually need to add 3 to both sides. This gives us an equation of y plus 3 equals x squared. So, in other words, if you want to shift to the problem y equals x squared down by 3 units, we just need to replace y with y plus 3. So, in general, if we want to shift a parabola down by k units, what do we need to replace y with? We need to replace y with y plus k, to shift the parabola y equals x squared, down by k units. This is exactly what we saw with y plus 3 equals x squared. Which remember was a translation of the graph y equals x squared down 3 units. If instead, we want to shift the parabola up by k units, what then do we need to replace y with? Shifting up or moving in the positive y-direction, means replacing y with y minus k. This goes along with the same reasoning that we used for the shift downward. We just need an opposite sign here to indicate the opposite direction of motion. Using the same reasoning, what do you think that we need to replace x with, if we want to shift our parabola to the right 2 units? Remember that right is the positive direction in x. We need to replace x with x minus 2 if we want to shift this parabola to the right by 2. In the y direction we saw that moving in the negative direction in y, required adding to y. And moving in the positive direction required subtracting from y. The same is true of x. Now I've got five different curves over here for you, and I'd like you tell me which one of these represents the graph of y minus 3 equals the quatity x minus 2 squared. So think about what replacing y with y-3 did to a curve before and what we said replacing x with x-2 would do to a curve The answer is, the curve I'm calling D, which is this purple one up here. Replacing x with x minus 2, meant a shift 2 to the right, from the original equation, y equals x squared, who's graph is this grey one right here. And replacing y with y minus 3, meant shifting that curve up 3, so if we move this curve over 2 and then up 3, we end up with this purple one, right here. Note that just as we saw in the example with Grant, we replace x with something else like x minus 2 in this case, that entire quantity has the same operations applied to it, as x had. So this entire thing is squared, not just the x part. When we were talking to Grant earlier about his future profit, he was really interested in the maximum point on this parabola. Since this point indicated the vertical value, the p value, of the maximum profit he could make. This maximum point is called the vertex of the parabola, or at least it is for this parabola. Now considering how much it mattered to Grant, and just looking at what a special point this is on the given parabola, the vertex is clearly pretty crucial. So let's focus on this for a second. If you have a parabola shaped like this, opening upward, does the vertex have the maximum or minimum y value for any point on the curve? What about for a parabola shaped like this, opening downward? Since the parabola is opening upward from this lowest point, when we have this sort of u-shaped curve, the vertex is the minimum of the graph. Or in other words, the vertex is the point that has the smallest y value. The opposite is true if the parabola opens downward. Since every point below this one right here will have a smaller y value, the vertex has the highest y value, or it's the maximum. If we go back to our super simple equation y equals x squared, where is the vertex of its graph? The vertex here is at the point 0,0, which we can see is the minimum of the curve since it's opening upward. This time, I've given you the graph and the equation y minus 3 equals the quantity x minus 2 squared. So, where is the vertex of this parabola? We can see the vertex is right here, at the point 2 comma 3. Since the graph was shifted over to the right 2 and up 3, from the graph of y equals x squared. Thinking about what we've just seen in recent graphs, how do you think the graph of the equation y plus 3 equals the quantity x minus 2 squared, will be shifted away from the graph of y equals x squared? How many units will it be shifted in the vertical direction, and how many units in which horizontal direction? Please pick one choice from each of these columns to fill in each blank. Since we have y plus 3, instead of just y, this graph will be shifted three down, from the graph of y equals x squared, and because we have x minus 2 instead of x, it'll be shifted two, to the right. Remember that when were adding constant terms, whether it's next to y or next to x, we're shifting in the negative direction along the respective axis. So since we're adding 3 vertically, we're moving down and since we're subtracting 2 horizontally, we're moving in the positive direction along the x axis. Now, that we know how this graph is shifted compared to y equals x squared, where do you think the vertex is? The vertex of the equation y plus 3 equals the quantity x minus two squared is that two comma negative 3, this point down here. Even though I didn't give you the graph, you could figure this out, by thinking about how this graph is shifted away from the graph of y equals x squared. Here's a quick hand-drawn version, not very spectacular I'm sorry, of y equals x squared. Our point of reference are our parent problem. Since we already knew that the red curve would be just an exact shift of the black curve to the right 2 and down 3. We can pick any point on the black curve and find the corresponding point on the red curve. We can do this for the vertex, which is originally at 0, 0 on the black curve. So then if we move it to the right 2, the x coordinate becomes 2. And if we move it down 3, the y coordinate becomes negative 3. One more practice finding the vertex of a parabola from its equation. Where is the vertex of y equals the quantity x minus 7 squared plus 5? Think about the form that this equation is in right now, and think about what it needs to be in, in order for us to find a vertex. The vertex of the parabola y equals x minus 7, squared, plus 5 is at 7,5. The way we originally have this equation written, there is no constant term next to y on the left hand side of the equation. Instead, outside of the portion of the equation, where x is being modified, there's another constant term. It isn't receiving the same kind of operations as what's inside the parentheses here with the x. To get this in the form that we've been working with, we need to subtract 5 from both sides of the equation. That gives us an equation of y minus 5 equals the quantity x minus 7 squared. From here, we can see that this graph should be shifted 7 to the right, and up 5 from the parent graph. So that gives us a vertex of 7, 5. For your viewing pleasure, here is that curve. The black one is y equals x squared, and this green one is our new graph. Here I've written its equation in the form that I prefer, so that we can see very easily where the vertex is. We know that for parabolas that point upward, like the two that I have shown on the graph here. The vertex is the minimum point on the curve, or in other words, the point with the lowest y value. So let's look back at our equation right here for the green problem. Y minus 5 equals the quantity x minus 7 squared. Let's take a second to dissect the different parts of our equation. Looking only at the right side, we have the quantity x minus 7 squared. Now what's the smallest value that this quantity can have? Think about different things that you could plug in for x, and what quantities for this whole expression each of those would yield. The answer here is 0 since anything squared can't be a negative number. The smallest non-negative number is 0. What value of x makes this equation true? We just need to solve this equation for x. When we do that, we get x equals 7. If we plug in x equals 7 to our equation for the green parabola over here, then what does y equal? If we insert a value of 7 for x in our equation, we end up with a value of 5 for y. This is perfectly in light of what we would expect, considering we have a 0.57 on our parabola that we're looking at. However, let's think about what this means. We just said that the smallest value we could get for the quantity x minus 7 squared was zero. We got that by plugging in 7 for x. We're finding a y value here based on an x value. So the x value that we pick minimizes an expression that's helping to determine the y value. And the y value is going to be as small as it can be. Which, as we can see, is true of the point that we just graphed, since it's the vertex of this upward facing parabola. We've seen a lot of different parabolas in this lesson so far. So I've written down the equations for a few of them here, and then also the corresponding vertex for each one. Thinking about the relationship between a vertex of each equation, and the equation itself, could you write an equation in the same form as these over here? For a parabola whose vertex is at the general coordinates h comma k? One more note, for simplicity's sake, assume that this parabola is just a shifted version of y equals x squared. The only thing that's different about it from this original graph is that the vertex has moved to h comma k. Assuming nothing has changed about this parabola, compared to y equals x squared, aside from the entire thing shifting. We know that the whole thing needs to shift by h coordinates in the horizontal direction, and k coordinates in the vertical direction. So the vertex will move to (h,k). If we replace x, with the quantity x minus h, and y with the quantity y minus k, this gives us a final equation of y minus k equals the quantity x minus h squared. So anytime we see an equation written in this form, we can automatically tell where its vertex is. This is going to be super useful as you move forward, doing more and more with parabolas. Now that we have a general form for the shifted version of the parabola y equals x squared. Let's work with this a little bit. A lot of parabolas we see don't have equations that are already in this form. So to see what other equations we could eventually get back to this general form, I'd like you to multiply out the right side of the equation. Then make sure that you combine like terms. Multiply it out, the right- hand side becomes x squared minus 2hx plus h squared. We ended the last quiz with this equation, but if we add k to both sides, we could end up with this equation, u equals x squared minus 2hx plus h squared plus k. So here, y is by itself on one side, and then all of the x terms and constants are on the right side. We've seen a number of equations for parabolas that are in this form, even if we didn't see general forms of them written with constants like these. So let's compare this to another parabola. Maybe y equals x squared, plus 6x plus 5, now because these two equations are in the same form, we should be able to figure out the value of each of the constants over here, based on the value of constants over here. So compared to this general equation, in equation y equals x squared plus 6 x plus 5, what number is h equal to? So find where the constant h appears in this general equation, figure out where that corresponds to in our equation with particular values inserted, and then calculate age based on that. This is a little bit tricky, but just give it a few tries. In this equation, h equals negative 3. We see h appear in two spots in the general equation. We have a term minus 2hx, and also a term h squared. And the h squared is going to be a little bit harder for us to pick out using this equation. Since we have one constant term of 5 over here, but we have two constant terms each squared and k here. And we can't tell which of these is contributing how much to 5. However, we have one term in the general equation that has an x to the first. And also only one term in the particular equation that has an x to the first. So that means that we have negative 2hx is equal to 6x, just matching those terms up. To get h by itself, we just need to divide both sides of the equation by negative 2x. Our xes will cancel out. And 6 divided by negative 2 is just negative 3. So that's our answer. So now we have a value for h, for this particular equation. But remember what h stood for, in the original equation we started working with. H was the amount that this graph is shifted horizontally, compared to y equals x squared. Now that we found a value for h in this equation, h equals negative 3. Can you find a value for k as well? k is only involved here in the constant term at the end, and the constant term in our equation with numbers is 5. So, you need to take all of the constant terms from this equation which are h squared and k, and have them equal to the constant here, which is 5. We already know what h is so now, we just solve for k. I find that k equals negative 4. We can use these values for h and k and insert them into that general expanded form of the equation for a parabola to rewrite this, like this. Y equals x squared minus 2 times negative 3x plus negative 3 squared plus negative 4. Now, we're ready to write this in the form we saw those other equations in. Y minus k equals the quantity x minus h squared. Please do that in this box right here. Once you've done that, I'd also like to, to tell me the coordinates of the vertex of this parabola. This is really easy to do considering we are reminded of the general formula right here, and we have values for h and k. We just plug those in to get a final equation of y plus 4 equals x plus 3 squared. Here, the vertex is at negative 3, negative 4. I started to show you over the past few videos, how we can begin with an equation in the standard form for a parabola, and then transform it so that it's written in a form where we can read off the coordinates of the vertex right away. This is a really powerful tool. Since we've learned now how to recognize the vertex of a parabola from it's graph and also the role that, that vertex plays in characterizing the equation of the parabola. As we delve more deeply into how to get equations in this form, we're going to be more and more successful about recognizing and graphing parabolas. At the end of our last lesson, I showed you an example of how to start with the equation for a parabola in standard form and then work through modifying it, so that it's in the form that we can just read off the coordinates of the vertex. Now you're going to get a chance to find this. But don't worry. I'll help you through it. Let's say we're dealing with the equation, y eqiuals x squared minus 8x plus 15. Remember our goal here is to get this in the form y minus k equals the quantity x minus h squared. So the first thing that I notice about this form over here that we're aiming for is that we have y minus a constant. So one logical first step would be to get the constant that's on the right side, to be over on the left side instead. So the first thing I'd like you to do then is to make that change, getting the constant term to be on the left hand side instead. And rewrite the equation in this box. To get the constant term to be on the left side instead of the right side, we just need to subtract 15 from both sides. This gets rid of it on the right and makes this so we have a new constant on the left. Now we're left with y minus 15 equals x squared minus 8x. The left side of our equation looks good now. This is exactly the sort of thing that we're looking for, y minus the constant. The right side is not quite there yet though. Eventually, we want this to be x minus some constant and that whole thing squared. Well, if you think about it, we're actually well on our way. If you think about this right side in the general form of this equation, we can multiply out the quantity x minus h squared to get x squared minus 2hx plus h squared. You've seen things like this a lot of times before. So here, it looks like we have this term covered, the x squared term, and we also have the term the x to the first covered. What we're missing is this constant. What constant do we need to add on to the end of x squared minus 8x in order to be able to factor it in the form x minus h squared. So, just think of what constant belongs here in order to make this expression on the right-hand side, the perfect square of some polynomial of two terms. We had a lot of practice with this when we were working with factoring earlier on. We're just working in the opposite direction this time, almost. When we look at the multiplied out version of x minus h squared, we notice that this constant term at the end, h squared, is just equal to the coefficient of the middle term divided by 2 and then squared. So if we do that same thing to the negative 8 here, we know that our constant at the end or h is going to be equal to negative 8 over 2, the quantity squared. Negative 8 over 2 is negative 4, and negative 4 squared is 16. Since we're looking for something in the form X minus H squared on the right hand side, the result that we need to add on over here is 16. Now of course if I add something to one side of the equation, I also have to add it to the other side. Now as we can see from our work in the last quiz, after we add 16 to both sides We'll be one step away from writing this in the form that we were aiming tor. So I'd like you to do that step of adding 16 and then modify the right hand side of the equation so that we get our final equation in the form y minus k equals x minus h squared. Put the equation written that way in this box, with of course the appropriate numbers plugged in. Adding 16 to both sides of our equation, gives us y plus 1 equals x squared minus 8x plus 16. All we need to do now is factor the right-hand side of the equation to make sure that it fits the form we're looking for. And sure enough, we can factor this to be x minus 4 squared. So, we have a final equation of y plus 1 equals the quantity x minus four squared. Awesome. So here's overall what we just did. We changed the equation y equals x squared minus 8x plus 15, an equation for a parabola in standard form. To the equation y plus 1 equals x minus 4 squared. So now we should be able to really easily where the vertex of this parabola is. I'd like you to write the coordinates of this vertex in these boxes. The vertex will be at 4, negative 1. Since we have x minus 4 and y plus 1. Let's take a bird's eye view of the process we just went through in transforming this equation. Since we were aiming for having a perfect square at the end, on the right-hand side of the equation involving x and a constant, we knew that the initial constant we started out with couldn't be right, since right now, we can't factor x squared minus 8 x plus 15 to be in this form. That means, we need a different constant attached to the two terms with x in them. So, the first step was to get rid of the initial constant we had so that we could have a different constant, on the end of the x squared minus 8x. You've figured out the constant that belonged at the end of those two terms was 16. When we add 16 to this, we get the perfect square of a binomial. This process is called completing the square, since the constant that we add on over here ends up giving us a squared expression as our answer. Now, we don't' technically have to move the 15 away from the right-hand side to do this. But I think that it makes dealing with these two terms on their own a little bit easier, since we don't have anything else to look at on the right side. So, completing a square is a crucial part of transforming equations of parabolas from standard form, into the form where we can see the vertex. Now that we understand how to complete this square and the importance of that technique in transforming equations from one form to another, I'd like you to rewrite the equation y equals x squared plus 5x plus 6 in the form that we've been talking about. Now, if your numbers get a little bit messy in here, don't worry. That doesn't mean you're doing the problem wrong, that often happens in math. So, just go with it and then at the end, you can always check your answer by plugging in points to the equation that you start with and the equation that you end with to make sure that they're the same. We can transform the equation, Y equals X squared plus 5x plus 6. Using completing the square, to instead read, y plus 1 over 4 equals x plus 5 over 2 squared. The first step that I do is make sure that what's on the right hand side isn't already the square of binomial. Which is, if you remember, the form that we want the right-hand side of the equation to be. You should always check this first just to make sure you don't do a ton of unnecessary work. Anyway I subtract 6 from both sides. Then I figure out what term I need to add on to x squared plus 5 x to make this the perfect square of two terms added together, and then I just factor. Now, we have this equation in such a lovely form. I'd like you to tell me what the vertex of this parabola is. The vertex is at negative 5 halves, negative 1 4th. Please note that x plus 5 halves is the same as x minus negative 5 halves and y plus 1 over 4 is the same as y minus negative 1 4th. So, that is why these are the coordinate of the vertex. So we see now how to transform a couple of different equations to this new form, which is really helpful for us in certain ways. But there are a lot of different equations for parabolas that don't look just like these two. In particular, what if our equation doesn't have a leading coefficient of 1? Leading coefficient here, refers to the coefficient in front of the x squared term, the term with the highest power. In both of these situations, that coefficient is 1, which we know makes factoring a lot simpler, and presumably, also changes how we complete the square. In fact, recall the equation that we came up with as our final equation, for calculating Grant's profit based on the price that he charges per glasses wiper set. Last lesson we had p equals negative 200 c squared, plus 18,400c, minus 133,200, here our leading coefficient is negative 200, that's certainly not equal to 1. If we want to find out exactly where the vertex of this equation is, we're going to need to get this in that new form, using completing the square. Well, we'll get to solving this eventually, but for now I'd like us to start out with a equation similar to this, and that its leading coefficient is not 1, and over through that, to eventually be able to deal with the Grant situation. Here I've graphed the equations y equals x squared, that parent parabola we've seen so many times, and then a second parabola y equals three x squared, this green one right here. So judging from the relationship between these two graphs, how does multiplying the leading coefficient of a parabola change the shape of the parabola? Does it shift it vertically, shift it horizontally, make it wider, or make it more narrow? It must make the graph more narrow, judging from the fact that this green curve is skinnier than this gray curve. And the only difference between our two equations is that here, x squared is multiplied by 3, and here, it's just multiplied by 1. Otherwise, the graph hasn't moved at all. There is no shift horizontally or vertically. It's just the width of the graph that's changed. We just saw one example of changing the width of a graph, and what if I now want to take our new graph and move it down 2, and over to the right 5? Thinking back to last lesson, what should I replace x with in the equation, and what should I replace y with? I need to replace x with x minus 5 and y with y plus 2. Remember, that the vertex of y equals 3x squared is at 0,0. So, if we want to move the graph down to and to the right 5, then the new vertex will be at 5, negative 2. Let's take a look at that new graph. Here, I've plugged in those transformations you talked about in the last quiz, replacing y with y plus 2 and x with x minus 5 to make the vertex be at 5, negative 2, like we just figured out. So remember, the 3 here, this coefficient in front of the leading term, squish the parabola down to be skinnier than the parent function. And then, the addition of these constant terms shifted the graph over. Because we started out with knowing about the graph, we were able to write our equation for this new parabola right away in this form where we can see the vertex. What I'm interested in is what this would look like if we wrote it in the standard form for the equation of a parabola. So let's try to move toward that. Start by multiplying out the terms on the right-hand side of the equation. Write that new expression that belongs on the right-side in this box. Multiplying the right-hand side out, gives us the expression 3x squared minus 30x plus 75. So, what was the point of multiplying this out? Well, we can see now that the right-hand side doesn't really tell us anything clearly about where the vertex is. And if we subtracted 2 again from both sides and got this fully in the standard form for the equation of the parabola, then we would really have no idea right away where the vertex was. Keep these two different forms, which are equivalent ways of writing the equation for this curve, in mind, as we move forward. Thinking back to the different ways that we saw to write the equation in the last quiz, which of these four equations do you think gives us most direct access to the coordinates of the vertex of a parabola, where that parabola has a leading coefficient of a. The answer is this one. Y minus k equals a times the quantity x minus h squared. This is almost the same as the equation that we were working with, in the last lesson. Remember that we kept talking about the form y minus k equals x minus h squared. And this was used for parabolas that had a leading coefficient of 1. So this makes perfect sense that if we have a leading coefficent of a instead of 1. We would modify the equation like this. Now, 2 of these equations here are actually not correct mathematical representations of what we're looking for. This one, y minus k equasl ax minus h. Doesn't graph a parabola at all. We can see that we only have an x to the first term, not an x to the second term. So this is a linear equation. That means it definitely can't be right. And the last one right here doesn't have the correct placement of the leading coefficient of a, as we can see from the last example we did. The second choice is mathematically equivalent to the third one, the correct one, except here, like we saw in the last quiz, we can't directly read off the coordinates of the vertex, or we wouldn't be able to if we had actual numbers plugged in. So this is the best choice. So now we have this awesome new form for the equation of a parabola, y minus k equals a times x minus h squared. What I want to know is what we should call this form. I keep having to read it out each time I say it. And, as you know, I'm really lazy and I don't want to do that. I just want to have a name for it. So what should we call it? Should we call this the x-intercept form for the equation of a parabola? The y-intercept form? Vertex form? Minimum form? Or maximum form? I think this should be called vertex form since, as we've seen, we can just read off the coordinates of the vertex, which is at h,k. That's why this form is so useful, and also because we can see from the coefficient of a about how wide the graph is going to be. Now, there may be some variation depending on what source you look at for what we should call this equation, but for the purposes of this class, we're going to call this the vertex form for the equation of a parabola. You may see other names elsewhere and there's not one that's absolutely right or absolutely wrong, but for the sake of speaking the same language, know that this is what I mean when I talk about vertex form. Now that we know what vertex form looks like for equations of problems that have leading coefficients other than 1, let's see if we can get this equation in this form. We have y equals 3x squared plus 6x minus 10. Now what was that tool we used before to get equations in vertex form? It was called completing the square. So that's what we need to do here, complete the square. The process is going to be slightly different, since we have this 3 present now, instead of a 1 in front of the x squared. But, let's give it a try. Well, the first thing we did before, when we were starting to complete the square. Was recognize that this constant over here is probably not the constant we're going to need if we want a perfect square term on the right hand side of the equation. So we want to get the constant off the right hand side and onto the left hand side. So if we do that, what does our equation look like now? You just need to add 10 to both sides and this gives us y plus 10 equals 3x squared plus 6x. So far the process of completing this square looks pretty similar to what we did before when the leading coefficient was 1. But here's where things are going to get a little bit tricky, or at least a little bit different from what we've seen before. The next step that I'd like you to do is to factor out that leading coefficient that we have on the right hand side. So pull out this 3 from these two terms and then write what we need to multiply that by in this box. Think about why we want to do this based on the final form of the equation that we want to end up with. If you factor out the 3 from 3x squared plus 6x, then on the right hand side of our equation we get 3 times the quantity x squared plus 2x. Now if we compare this to the vertex form that we just came up with, we can see that we're already filling in things in most of the slots that we need. The left hand side is good to go. We have our a set with this 3, and we almost have this x minus h squared figured out. This isn't quite a perfect square yet though, like x minus h squared is. So what do we need to add on to the expression x squared plus 2x? Which we have inside these parenthesis, in order to have a polynomial that we can factor to be in the form, x minus h squared, where h is unconstant. Remember that if h is negative here, we end up with x plus some constant. So don't worry if you're wondering how to get x minus a number here. Just think about what we need to complete the square. The number we need to add here is 1. Likely to be 4, we can get this by dividing the coefficient of the x to the first term by 2, and then squaring it. 2 over 2 squared is just 1. So that's what we add on We just decided that we need to add a 1 into this expression, in order to complete the square. So we're going to want to have x squared plus 2 x plus 1 inside these parentheses. My question is can we go ahead and replace x squared plus 2 x with x squared plus 2 x plus 1, without changing anything else in our equation? Please answer yes or no. The answer is no, we can't do that. If we're adding a 1 inside the parentheses, then we're adding something, some quantity other than 0 to the right side of the equation. And that means we have to do it for the left side as well, otherwise you'll completely change what graph we have. So, we know that we need to add something to both sides, but what number is it? If we want to have the right side end up being 3 times X squared plus 2X plus 1, what number do we need to add to both sides of the equation? The answer is 3. This is actually pretty hard I think, especially the first time you think about it. Since we know we want to have this quantity on the right hand side, we need to think about what we're actually adding when we entered this 1 inside the parenthesis. If we look at the entire expression, including the coefficient of 3 outside of the parenthesis, we actually need to add a 3 times 1 in order to get this. So that's going to give us the equation y plus 13 equals 3 times the quantity x squared plus 2x plus 1. Awesome. We are one step away from having our equation in vertex form. Look back at what vertex form is, and write that final equation in this box. All we need to do is factor the right hand side of the equation. You can leave the left hand side exactly the same. Keep that leading coefficient and recognize that x squared plus 2x plus 1 is just equal to x plus 1 squared. So if our final equation is y plus 13 equals 3 times the quantity x plus 1 squared. Now that we have our equation in vertex form, where is the vertex of this parabola? It's at negative 1, negative 13. Which of the graphs on this coordinate plane over here on the right represents the equation we've been talking about? Y plus 13 equals 3 times the quantity X plus 1 squared. Please note the scale on either axis. They're not the same. I just wanted to make these curves a little bit less skinny than they would normally be so you could tell them apart. The answer is graph C, this light green one right here. We found out in the last quiz that the vertex of this equation is at negative 1, negative 13. So if you look for the curve on this graph that has that vertex, we have two actually that meet right here, C and D. If we plug in other points to this equation though, we can see that C is the one that fits. So we just found the graph of y plus 13 equals 3 times x plus 1 squared. But what if I want to change the sign of a leading coefficient? Let's make it negative 3 instead of positive 3. Which graph matches this new equation? Graph D matches this new equation. Note that the vertex hasn't changed, since the values of h and k haven't changed. Well if you plug in values now, since D is the only other curve besides C that has this vertex, that must be the answer. You could, of course, also plug in other points to verify this. What do you think that we can say in general about our problem in vertex form that has a negative leading coefficient? What does this say about the shape of the graph, or rather the direction that the graph is pointing in. If a is negative in the equation of this form, then the parabola opens downward. We saw before that the equation for the green curve was y plus 13 equals positive 3 times, times x plus 1 squared. And we can see that this is opening upward. The only thing that changed when we switched this to a negative was that the parabola now opens downward which is graph D. Except for playing the opposite direction Graph D is exactly the same as graph C. It has the same shape and it even has the same vertex. Considering your new found understanding of the sine/g of the leading coeffecient for a parabola, which of the parabolas over here has a positive leading coefficient, and which ones have negative leading coefficients? A, C, and E have positive coefficients since they point upward, and B, D, and F have negatively coefficients since they open downward. Your're welcome for giving your nice little pattern in your answers. Now that we understand what the constants in the vertex form actually stand for and what role they play in creating the graph of an equation, let's continue practicing completing the square, so you can get more and more equations into vertex form and then graph them easier. So tell me where the vertex of the parabola Y equals -6X squared plus 20x minus 15 is. To figure this out, please use complete in a square to put this in Vertex form and then tell me the Vertex. We know that we're going to need to complete the square to this equation for a parabola that's in standard form right now to be in vertex form eventually. So the first step to do that is to first check out whether or not the expression we have on the right side of our equation, the expression involving x, is in fact a perfect square right now. To my knowledge there's nothing that we can multiply by itself, or at least nothing pretty, to get this. So we're going to add 15 to both sides so that we can pick our own constant complete the square with On the right side. So that gives us y plus 15 equals negative 6 x squared plus 20. And since we have a leading coefficient over here that is not equal to 1 I need to factor out that leading coefficient so that the right side of our equation eventually has the form of a coefficient times some binomial where x with the coefficient of 1 is the first term. So I simply factor out the negative 6 from both terms on the right side. Then we need to figure out what constant term to add. This expression inside the parentheses, to make it a perfect square. Since I know that when I have a binomial squared, the coefficient of the middle term is just twice the number that we have as the second term in the binomial. We can find the constant that we're adding to the end by dividing The coefficient of the x to the first term by 2, then I need to square it since I have C squared as the coefficient on the end over here in our multiplied out polynomial. That gives me 25 over 9. Subsets belong inside the parentheses here, but it's not actually the number that we;re adding to both sides of the equation. That number is going to be negative 6 times 25 over 9. It looks like I forgot my negative signs here. Lets multiply 25 over 9 by negative 6 gives me negative 50 over 3. So that's the number that we need to add to both sides. Once I subtract 50 over 3 from both sides, all we need to do is simplify this or modify it so we get it into vertex form. Our final equation in vertex form then is y minus five thirds equals negative 6. Times x minus 5 thirds squared. Where is our vertex then? Well, we can read it off. It's at the point 5 thirds, 5 thirds. Of all the work we've done to get equations in vertex form, I think we're very well equipped at this point to help Grant deal with his profit better. Remember the equation we came up with before P equals -200 C squared plus 18,400 C minus 133,200. Remember that here P stands for Grant's profit in dollars and C stands for the price that he sets for each wiper set also in dollars. So considering this curve, what is the maximum profit that Grant can make? And what wiper set price does he need to pick in order to gain that profit. What we're looking for in this equation is the maximum value that p can have and the corresponding c value or the c value at which that p value occurs. Well remember what this curve looks like overall. It was a problem that opens downward. That means that the maximum point here is just the. The vertex. So that's exactly what we want to find. The C value and P value that we're looking for are just the coordinates of our vertex. Let's get this in vertex form, then. So we need to go through out typical process of completing the square to get this forumla in vertex form. Note that it actually skipped one step. That I included in the past. When I subtract this constant from both sides of the equation, I know that I'm doing that in order to get the right side to equal our perfect square. In the past I've written out what this entire polynomial is multiplied out, and then factored it as a step after that, but we don't really need to do that. The reason is that I already know the factored form of the polynomial that we're creating by adding this before I even add on the constant term. The number that I'm adding to c, this negative 46 in this case, is just the coefficient of the c to the first term divided by 2. Since that's the thing that we're squaring in order to come up with what we're adding the end to make this a perfect square. So going through all these steps gives us our final equation of p minus 290,000 equals negative 200 times the quantity c minus 46 squared. From here we can read straight off that our vertex must be at 46, 290,000. So what does this tell us? Well it tells us exactly the information that we were looking for. Grant will earn a maximum possible profit of $290,000 per month if he makes his wiper sets cost $46 each. Now, we have all the tools we need to draw a parabola from an equation. Regardless of what form it's in, when we first look at it. We can find the vertex, and we can find the x and y intercepts. This will definitely give us enough points to connect into a smooth curve. So let's put all of this together. If we have the equation, y equals x squared plus 5x plus 4. What are the y-intercepts of the graph, its x-intercepts, and its vertex? We can find the y-intercept of this curve by plugging in x equals 0. That gives us a y-coordinate of 4, and we already know the x-coordinate is 0, so the y-intercept is 0,4. X-intercepts are where y equals 0. Now, we need to factor to figure out what x values makes this equation true. The two equations that yield solutions that could each make this equation true are x plus 4 equals 0 and x plus 1 equals 0. So now, I just have to solve each of these. Our x-intercepts are then at negative 4,0 and negative 1,0. Lastly, let's find the vertex by putting this in vertex form. Our final equation in vertex form is y plus 9 4th equals x plus 5 halves squared. That means, that our vertex is at negative 5 halves, negative 9 4th. If you think about the fact that we talked about what parabolas are for the first time just a couple of lessons ago, it's pretty impressive how much you can do to manipulate them and find out about their graphs already. This is really awesome. Good job. So here, I've drawn the graph for you of the equation we were just working with, y equals x squared plus 5 x plus 4. Now, of course, this is in standard form and we put it in vertex form earlier, so I could have written it that way as well. We have all our important points that we've picked out, labeled. But there's one more thing about the graph that we can talk about and this is actually super important. Notice that this and all other parabolas are symmetrical. There's a vertical line running right through the vertex that divides this parabola exactly in half. What I want you to know is what the equation of this vertical line is. Since this is a vertical line, we know that its equation is going to be x equals some constant, since every point along this line has the same x-value. Since this line goes through the vertex, which has an x value of negative 5 halves, the equation this line[INAUDIBLE] must be x equals negative 5 halves. Since this line goes through the vertex, which has an x-value of negative 5 halves, the equation in this line must be x equals negative 5 halves. I like to keep this idea of the symmetry of parabolas in mind as we move forward. You probably already noticed on your own anyway, just from looking at all of our graphs. But think about why a parabola would end up with this kind of shape, because of the way its equation is written. In particular, think about the fact that the expression involving x is of degree 2, and how squaring something might create a symmetric pattern just like this. Let's continue along this vein of symmetry of parabolas. Now when we were talking about linear equations, a super vital part of everything that we talked was the slope of a line. And we can find the slope of a line by taking any two points along it and taking the ratio of the difference between their y coordinates to the difference between their x coordinate. We haven't however considered this slope of a curve yet of a graph of anything that isn't just a straight line. This may seem a little bit funny to think about but I think its pretty important. There is a single sub that applies to every single point along this curve. But we can talk about slope any local sense. Its pretty easy to see what the slope of a single part of the curve is by picking a point on the line, lets say this one and drawing a line that just touches the curve at that point and has the same slope as the curve does right there. So for every point on a curve we can say that there is a line tangent to that point, that has the same slope as the curve at that point and barely touches the curve right there. So it's actually really hard to draw an exact tangent line, but this is a pretty good approximation. We pick two points that are infinitesimally far away from this point or in other words two points that are as close as we can possibly pick, to this point that we're interested in. We can draw the line connecting those two points and then extend that line, tend up with the tangent line. Now you have to wait for calculus to get a really deep and rigorous understanding of tangent lines, but they're still really useful for us for understanding the shapes of parabolas and of other curves as well. So now I've drawn 3 different lines that are tangent to 3 different points on this parabola. I've labelled them A, B and C and for each of those, I'd like you to tell me what the sign of the slope of the line is. Is it positive, negative, or 0? Check the proper box for each line. The slope of line A is negative. The slope of line B is 0, since it's horizontal. And the slope of line C is positive. This is pretty interesting. I think this gives us a different way of quantifying how the shape of our curve is symmetric. As we move from one side of our parabola across the vertex to the other side, the sign of the slopes of our tangent lines as we move from point to point to point, switches direction. This is going to be true of any parabola. Although, you can imagine that if this parabola flipped upside down, you might have filled in different answers for these three lines. Here are two more tangents lines. Actually two was one of the three that we had in the last quiz. And these two lines are tangent to two points on the curve that have the same y value but different x values. My question is how the slopes of lines one and, and two compare to one another. Which of these do you think is correct? Do you think that m1 and m2 are equal, that m1 equals negative m2, that m1 equals negative 1 over m2 or that m1 equals m2 over 2? Remember that m1 is the slope of line 1 and m2 is the slope of line 2. m 1 is just equal to negative m 2. These slopes are the same magnitude, but opposite signs. This makes sense, intuitively, in terms of how our graph is shaped. The slope right here, is as steep as the slope right here, just pointing the other direction. This is going to be true of any two points, that are directly opposite one another, across that line of symmetry we drew before. This is a way then of quantifying that symmetry of the graph. You can imagine also that if we flipped one side of the graph over that line of symmetry to the other side it would map directly onto it. Let's talk a little bit more about the technique of completing the square. Now we've used this a lot to figure out how to get equations for parabolas in vertex form but we can also use it to factor expressions and to solve other equations. It's the technique that could be used in a ton of different circumstances. First things first, let's see how we can use this to factor. Now earlier on in this lesson, we saw that we could write this in a modified version of the equation in vertex form as y equals the quantity x minus 4 squared minus 1. Notice that the first term here is a squared term and the second term, apart from the minus sign, is also a squareed term. Because we have one squared term that's being subtracted from another squared term, we can call this an instance of difference of squares. In genereal, if we have two squared terms, a squared and b squared and we write a squared minus b squared then remember that we can factor this in an interesting way. This is just equal to a plus b times a minus b. Match up our difference of squares here, with this general form for the difference of squares. Can you tell me what a and b are, in the case that we have right here on the right side of our equation? A is equal to x minus 4, the first thing that we're squaring. And b is equal to 1, the second thing that's squared. Now what I'd like you to do is factor our expression X minus 4 squared minus 1 in this way, like we can with all differences of squares. Remembering what A equaled and what B equaled in the last quiz, write this as A minus B times A plus B. a plus b is x minus 4 plus 1 and a minus b is x minus 4 minus 1. Simplifying this gives us the quantity x minus 3 times the quantity x minus 5. Please note that this is exactly what we got when we factored. So really when compared to factoring completing the square was a lot of work in this case. But there are plenty of cases where we have expressions that we can't factor in which completing the Completing the square will actually help us. It'll make our lives easier. Here it wasn't really necessary because we could of factored the initial expression. Let's look at different equation then. One like this one. Y equals X squared plus 6x plus three. Now we can't factor this. Know that the only factors of 3 are 3 and 1, and they don't add to equal 6. So we're going to need to come up with a different way, a different method, of figuring out where this curve touches the x axis. I'd like you to write this Right side of the equation in completed square form. So, in other words, complete the square on the right side. However, this time, don't move the 3 over to the left-hand side. Keep it on the right side and just play with the first two terms here to complete the square. Once you've completed the square with these two, tack the 3 on to the end again and simplify. Fill the new expression you have on the right-hand side into this box. Let's start by considering just these first two terms, x squared plus 6x, and we want to complete the square with these 2 terms as the first 2 terms of that squared polynomial. Then the constant we need to add at the end is 9, since 6 over 2 is 3 and 3 squared is 9. However, if we want to add 9 inside here, without actually adding anything total to either side of the quation, then we need to talso subtract 9 from somewhere on the right side. So that's exactly what I did. I wrote plus 9 inside the parenthesis, and then a minus 9 next to the plus 3 outside. Remember that because all of these terms are just added together, these parenthesis here are really just for notation. They're just to help me visualize that these terms belong together. This doesn't, in any way, change the way these terms are combined. The factored form of x squared plus 6x plus 9 is x plus 3 squared, and negative 9 plus 3 is just minus 6. So the completed square form of y equals x squared plus 6x plus 3 is y equals the quantity x plus 3 squared minus 6. Now, you might be wondering why on Earth this is helpful at all, well, remember, what we're trying to do here. Since we can't factor this expression, we need a different way to find the x-intercepts. Here, we can tell that we're getting close to being able to do that. At some point, we want to set y equal to zero, and now we only have x written in one spot in our equation, rather than in two. We know how to take square roots, so I feel like we're getting pretty close. At this point, we need to think about the difference of squares again. Remember that if we have a squared minus b squared, we can factor this as a minus b times a plus b. Here, we have one term that's clearly squared, so maybe we can use this technique to help us out. Now, 6 doesn't look like a squared number, but that doesn't really matter. We can stil,l of course, take the square root of 6 and get a number. It may not be an integer but it is a real number. What I would like you do now is keeping all that in mind, write out the two factors in this form that we have coming from this expression right here. This is going to look pretty different from anything we worked with before and you may not think it looks very pretty but just go with it, this is going to be super, super useful in everything we have coming up. If we're thinking of x plus 3 squared minus 6, as being in the form a squared minus b squared, then in our case a is equal to x plus 3, and b is just equal to the square root of 6, since the square root of 6 squared is just 6. That means that to factor this we need to take this minus this times this plus this. So, this is our final answer, y equals the quantity x plus 3 minus the square root of 6 times the quantity x plus 3 plus the square root of 6. Now that we've figured out how to factor, this equation, can you tell me what the x-intercepts of this graph are? Please round each of your numbers to two decimal places if you need to. In order to find out where this curve hits the x-axis, we need to set y equal to 0. Then we can say that this will be satisfied if one of two conditions is true. We could either have the first factor equaling 0, which gives us the equation x plus 3 minus the root of 6 equals 0. Or we could have the second factor equals 0, x plus 3 plus root of 6 equals 0. Now we just solve for x. This gives us x equals negative 3 plus the root of 6, and x equals negative 3 minus the root of 6. So if x equals either of these numbers, this expression will equal 0. These are just the x-coordinates of our two x-intercepts, and of course the y-coordinate of each is 0. So this is actually really incredible what we've done. We figure out how to factor over not just the integers but over the real numbers. In other words, we can use completing the square and understanding difference of squares to find the x-intercepts of a ton of different equations for parabolas, not just ones that we can factor in the traditional way. Oh, and I almost forgot. The rounded version of these two answers are negative .55, 0 and negative 5.44, 0. We're going to keep working with the idea of finding x-intercepts of any given parabola in the next lesson. Awesome job on a lot of pretty complicated material. We've now found out that if Grant sets his price per wiper blade set equal to $46, he will earn the maximum profit he can of $290,000. But, of course, there may be factors that prevent him from setting his price exactly equal to this amount. And he wants to rule out a few other prices that would lead to the worst case scenario, or at least one of the worst case scenarios, no profit at all. If Grant wants to know what he would need to set his price per wiper blade set equal to, to have his profit equal 0, what point or points on our graph are we interested in? Do we want to know about the vertex, the maximum, the minimum, the c-intercept or intercepts, or the p-intercept? If Grant is making no profit, that means that p equals 0. The points where p equals 0 are the c-intercepts. So those are what we're interested in. The next question is whether or not we can find these c-intercepts simply by factoring. By factoring here, I mean the traditional sense of factoring using that first method we discussed pretty early on in the class. The answer is, no, we can't. I can't think of two numbers that add to equal 184,000 and multiply to equal product of negative 200 and negative 133,200. Or even if those numbers do exist, they're going to be really, really hard for me to think of. So what are we going to do now? We can't just read these off the graph either. It's really hard to tell exactly where they are. We're starting to see that some equations for parabolas can't be factored. When that's the case, we need another method of finding where they intersect the horizontal axis. Let's look at this equation, y equals 3 x squared plus 6 x minus 10. Now if we want to find the x intercepts, what equation are we really trying to solve? Please put you answer with the full equation in this orange box. We just need to solve 0 equals 3 x squared plus 6 x minus 10. Since y equals 0 at the x intercepts. We actually worked through a problem pretty similar to this at the end of the previous lesson. It was a different equation, and the leading coefficient was 1, so things were a little bit simpler, but the same sort of technique that we used there applies here. I'd like you to complete the square, with the expression on the left side of the equation, and to get this equation to the point where there's a non-zero integer on the right-hand side, and a term with our perfect square in it on the left hand side. To complete in this square, we end up with the equation 3 times the quantity x plus 1 squared, equals 13. Remember that we're trying to get x by itself. So the next step we need to take in order to do that is to get rid of this factor of 3 out in front here, so that I can rewrite the equation with a factor of 3 gone from this side. Of course we need to do this legally, so think about what that means for the right side of the equation as well. This leaves us with the quantity x plus 1 squared, equals 13 over 3. Remember that we're trying to get X by itself. So what's the next step that we should take to move towards that? Should we square both sides of our equation? Should we find the positive square root of each side? Should we find the negative square root of each side? Or should we find both the positive and the negative square roots of both sides? The last choice is correct. We need both the positive and the negative square roots. This time, we don't have any real life situations ruling out negative numbers, and it makes sense mathematically that if we end up with a negative number inside the parentheses on the left-hand side, since we're squaring it, it will equal a positive number. Now, to indicate that we want the positive and the negative versions of a number, we can write this symbol out in front, plus or minus. Now, in MathQuill, to create this symbol, you need to write backslash pm and then a space. The next step, like we said, is going to be to take the square root of both sides. Including both the positive and the negative routes. I've already dealt with the left side for you and I'd like you to fill in the right side. We have x plus 1 equals plus or minus the square root of 13 over 3. Now, you may we wondering why it doesn't look like I took the positive and negative versions of the square root of the left side of the equation. But with this equation right here, we're actually covering all of our possible solutions for x. Here's why. We know that if we have a square root of a number, and we make that negative. Then that's just equal to negative 1 times the square root of that number. The negative version of this square root effects would then be negative 1 times that. Which is negative x minus 1. Let's say that we had this in an equation as well, with the same thing on the right side. They're more effectively taking care of the plus and minus versions of the left root. This is going to give us four different equations, which are these four equations right here. However, we need to notice something special about these equations. If we take this equation, negative x minus 1 equals negative root 13 over 3, and we divide both sides by negative 1. We end up with x plus 1 equals the root of 13 over 3, which is just this equation up here. That means that one of our equations in the second pair is the same as an equation in the first pair. Now if we do the same thing for these 2 equations. The 2 we haven't touched on yet. We'd find that they are equivalent as well. So if we take the positive and negative square roots of both sides of the equation, So it saves us some time to only put the plus or minus in front of 1 side of the equation. And just take the positive square root of the other side. Or the negative 1 if you prefer that. Now all that's keeping x from being by itself is this plus 1. So move that to the other side and create an expression for x. Remember our handy dandy plus minus sign. This gives us x equals negative 1 plus or minus the square root of 13 over 3. Remember that this plus or minus symbol actually indicates that we're going to have two separate numbers here. There are two numbers contained in this line right now. One that's equal to negative 1 plus this quantity, and one that's equal to negative 1 minus this quantity. What I'd like you to do now is to find the two values of x that are produced by this. Remember what this symbol means to get you those two different answers, and when you find them, round each of them to two decimal places. Please put the answer that is the lower number in the top box, and the answer that is higher number in the bottom box. The two answers we get are negative 3.08 and 1.08. Here's how I found them. I found the first one by using a subtraction sign in here. So this is negative 1 minus the square root of 13 over 3. And I found the second answer 1.08 by using the plus sign in here, negative 1 plus the root of 13 over 3. This means that our X intercepts are at -3.08, 0 and 1.08, 0. I would like to make one little change on here though. Since these are rounded answers, let's put approximately equal to signs between these. These are approximate numbers, and if we wanted to, we could continue calculating out these infinitely long decimals by looking for their out and calculating these. So, we eventually got to find the x-intercepts of this equation that we didn't know how to factor, but this is a pretty long winded process. Unfortunately, this is a situation that we actually run into quite a bit. It's really only very special cases of quadratic equations that we can factor. Thankfully, there's a formula that we can use to calculate the roots of a quadratic equation so we don't have to go through this long process every single time. Now, get excited, because you are going to work out that formula yourself. We're going to start with the general form of a quadratic equation, ax squared plus bx plus c equals 0. And we're going to use this to solve for x. This might look a little bit complicated at certain points but once you've gotten to the end and you understand why the formula we end up with works, you'll get to use this every single time. Let's follow this same method as we did in the last example. First things first, let's complete the square. It might be a little bit messy but we're going in. The first thing I'd like you to do is to factor out a from these first two terms here. What belongs inside these parenthesis then? If we take out the factor of a from these two terms, the coefficient of the first term becomes one, and the coefficient of the second term becomes b over a. So we have a times the quantity x squared plus b over a x, and then, of course, plus c equals 0. Great. Let's keep moving forward with completing this square. What terms belong in these 2 boxes to help us complete the square? Since the right side of the equation doesn't change from this step to this step, that means that the total value of the left side shouldn't change either. Think about what that means about the relationship between what belongs in this box and what belongs in this box. The term that belongs in this slot is b over 2 a. We get that by dividing this middle coefficient by 2. Since we know that this plus itself has to equal b over a. Now what term belongs here? Well, this needs to compensate for the amount that we're adding to the entire expression on the left-hand side. When we inserted b over 2a right here, this is just adding a constant that is b over 2a squared times that coefficient of a that's outside. This simplifies to b squared over 4a. So that's what belongs right here. Let's lay back to what we did before. And what our goal is, eventually, we want to get x bytes off. We want to isolate it on one side of the equation, so that means that something is going to have to happen with all this constant stuff over here. Something is also going to have to happen with our coefficient of a. So actually, let's do with both of those things now. What does that will leave us with on the left side of the equation and what does that put on the right side? So, you could either choose to subtract the c or divide by a first. It doesn't matter which order you do these in, as long as you obey all the proper mathematical rules. In particular, when we divide both sides by a, make sure that you divide every term on each side by a, and do that division correctly. The first time I did this, I actually messed up dealing with the second term in the left-hand side. I didn't write a squared, I just didn't write an a at all in the denominator. So, everyone makes mistakes. It's not a big deal if you do. We just gotta keep learning from them. Anyway, the equation we end up with at the end of this step is the quantity x plus b over 2a squared minus b squared over 4a squared equals negative c over a. Now I'd like you to rearrange things, so that the only thing we have left on the left side of the equation, is x plus b over 2a squared. What belongs on the right side then? When we have this by itself in the left hand side, the right hand side reads b squared over 4a square minus c over a. We got this by adding b square over 4a squared to both sides. We have 2 fractions on the right hand side of the equation right now. So Id like us to combine them. Think about the least common multiple of 4a squared and a is. And that will be the denominator. And then think about what the enumerator will become based on that. The least common multiple of A and 4a squared is 4a squared. To make the denominator in the second fraction equal that, we need to multiply both the top and the bottom fraction by 4a. Remember, this is the same as multiplying by 1, so it's totally kosher to do within an equation. Written as a single fraction then, this is B squared minus 4ac over 4a squared. We're so close to having x by itself. If I want the left side of the equation to now read x plus b over two a, what does the right side need to be? I'll make the version of the equation we just had a little bit bigger. Read each of these answer choices really carefully to figure out whether or not it's correct. Note that I've put square boxes next to each of these. Indicating that you can check as many of these as you think are right. There might be multiple ways to write what belongs on the right side. We want to take the square root of both sides of the equation. We want to make sure that at least one of those sides has a plus or minus next to it. Since the left side doesn't, the right side needs it. So that rules out all of our answers that don't have plus or minus symbols in front of them. This first answer is definitely correct because it has a square root sign over the entire expression, those on the right hand side originally. However, when we have a square root over a fraction. This is the same as taking the square root of the numerator over the square root of the denominator. So this choice is correct as well. If we simplify that denominator, square root of 4a squared, that just gives us 2a, so the last choice is also correct. There's so many different ways of writing this, however I think that this last one is probably the most simple, since it has the fewest radicals involved. Finally we're about ready to get x by itself. All we need to do is get rid of this constant term, b over 2a, that's right now on the left side of the equation. I'd like you to get x by itself and then I'd like you to write our final answer on the right hand side as a single fraction. To get x by itself, we need to subtract b over 2a from both sides. Then, both of our fractions on the right-hand side have a denominator of 2a, so it's really easy to combine them. This gives us, finally, a final answer of x equals negative b, plus or minus the square root of b squared minus 4ac all over 2a. You can heave a giant sigh of relief now, that was a lot of work and it involved some complicated Algebra. I think that in doing this, you had to use almost all of the skills you've learned in this course so far. So, this is super impressive, I am so proud of you. So, what does this mean again? Remember, we started out with an equation in this form, a quadratic equation, ax squared plus bx plus c equals 0. Working from that, we've solved for x which means that now, we have a formula where if we know the coefficients of a quadratic equation written in this form, we can find the values of x that satisfy it. In other words, for any parabola we have, if we can write its equation in standard form, ax squared plus bx plus c equals y, then we can set y equal to 0 and find the x-intercepts. This is huge, this is incredibly powerful. And we did all of these by just completing the square. And, of course, doing some other algebraic manipulations. This formula we just created has a special name. It is called the quadratic formula. And this name makes sense. Remember, this gives us solutions for quadratic equations, which are written in the form ax squared plus bx plus c equal 0. As long as we can find these coefficients, we can solve for x. So let's try this out. Let's see if it really works. Let's look at an example we did before, and see if we can get the same answers for the x coordinates of its x intercepts, as we did using other methods. Let's look back at x squared plus 5x plus 6 equals 0. For this quadratic equation what are a, b, and c? Were these in reference to the general form of the quadratic equation that we've been talking about? A equals 1, b equals 5 and c equals 6. Since we should have ax squared plus bx plus c. Equals 0, of course. Here are the values for a, b and c that we found in the last quiz, and now I'd like you to use these values in the quadratic formula. On your own piece of paper, please write in these values in the proper places and then simplify, so that you can write a single number in each of these boxes right here. So an initial plugging in of these numbers gives us this right here, which I'm not going to read out because as you know, I'm pretty lazy. Anyway, now I'll go through and simplify within each of these spots to figure out what numbers belong there. I'll leave that negative 5 out front. Under the radical we'll have 25 minus 24, which is just 1 and the denominator becomes 2. Awesome. Now that we have our numbers plugged in and simplified in our quadratic formula. Tell me what two values of x satisfy our original equation. So come up with two, just numbers that belong in these boxes. Please put the smaller one here and the bigger one here. Our plus or minus here means that we can either have negative 5 plus the root of 1 over 2 as our value of x. Or we can have negative 5 minus the root of 1 over 2. Let's figure out what each of these numbers actually is. Well, the root of 1 is just 1. So this number should be negative 2 and this number should be negative 3. In the last quiz, we got 2 values of x that satisfy this equation, which were the same as the ones we found through factoring earlier on. It's definitely quicker to factor if you can, but sometimes it's hard to see right away how to factor an expression, so if you don't know how, now you have another way to solve for x in situations like this. Let's look at the equation 4x squared minus 4x minus 3 equals 0. This is a quadratic formula so we should be able to use the quadratic formula to solve it, even if there are other methods of doing it. So what values of a, b and c should we use for this equation, if we are going to use the quadratic formula? We'll have a equals 4, b equals negative 4 and c equals negative 3. Now that we have a, b, and c picked out, use these in the quadratic formula to solve for x. Using the quadratic formula, we get values of x of 3 halves and negative 1 half. And now finally back to Grant. Here's his equation for profit written in the standard form for an equation for a problem. And if you remember back at the beginning of the lesson, he wanted to know which prices for wiper sets will cause him to not make any profit at all, or to make p equal 0. I'll tell you right off the bat that there are 2 of them and I'd like you to round each of them to 2 decimal places. This time, we're not solving for x since there's no x in our equation. Instead, we're solving for c, since c stands for the price per wiper set. We want to know what values of c will make p equals 0. Now, this is in a general form for a quadratic equation. That means, we can use the quadratic formula. And this may be a little bit confusing because our variable is called c and what we do usually refer to this constant term at the end as c. What's really important though, isn't what we call these constants, rather, it's where we place them in the quadratic formula. Once we have this all written out, we just need to simplify and solve. Simplifying gives us these numbers. C equals negative 18,400, plus or minus the square root of 232 million, all over negative 400. This is one of those moments where I'm very grateful for calculators as much as I really do think it's important for people to be able to manipulate numbers on their own. But I can't figure out the square root of 232 million in my head. Because of the plus or minus, this is going to split into two answers for c. Now, we can simplify what's under the square root and also divide both terms in the numerators by negative 400. So, we get 46 minus 5 root 58 and 46 plus 5 square root 58. Let's look at the decimal approximations of each of these. The first one is about equal to 7.92. And the second is about equal to 84.08. So, these are our 2 solutions. Let's check out the graph for a second. So, here's the graph of our equation for Grant's profit. P equals negative 200c squared plus 18,400c minus 133,200. This is this lovely curve we've seen several times now. Please note, of course, the scale on either axis. These bolder vertical lines each mark 20 units or $20, and these bold horizontal lines, each mark $50,000. So, let's look at our x-intercepts, and yes, this one does look like it's just before 10. So, $7.92 makes sense or 7.92, for this point. This one is just past 80, so $84.08 makes sense as well. So, let's keep in mind what we're actually doing in problems like this. When we start with an equation for a parabola like this one, if we want to find the location of its x-intercepts, we can set the vertical coordinate equal to 0 since that's what's true at the x-axis or the horizontal axis, the c-axis in the case of this problem. And then, when we set that vertical coordinate equal to 0, we can use the quadratic formula to solve provided that the rest of the equation is in the proper form. The quadratic formula gives us the horizontal coordinates of those points that have a vertical coordinate of 0. In other words, it gives us the x-coordinates of the x-intercepts. Or in this case, the c-coordinates of the c-intercepts. I think it's time that we introduce a pretty important word, the root of a polynomial. This is a word we're going to hear more and more in the coming lessons. So I think we should get used to it now. So if the root of a polynomial is a number n, such that when you substitute n in the spot of x in that polynomial, it makes the polynomial equal to 0. Then what do you think the root is? Where do we get that number that is the root from? Is the root just 0? Is it the x coordinate of the vertex of the parabola? Is it the y coordinate of the vertex? Is it the x coordinate of the y intercept? The y coordinate of the y intercept? The x coordinate of the x intercept? Or the y coordinate of the x intercept? A root of a polynomial is the x coordinate of one of its x-intercepts. We've been looking at equations for parabolas that can be written in the form y equals ax squared plus bx plus c. And then we want to find the x intercepts, we replace y with 0. And come up with a quadratic equation. Any numbers that satisfy this equation, are roots. Well we've been solving for x using factoring, or the quadratic formula, or finding the roots of these quadratics. It's convenient to have the word root, because I've been asking you for x intercept over, and over again. But for every x intercept, the y value is 0. So just keep in mind that a Y value that goes along with the root to create the coordinates of a point is 0. Just like we plugged in here. Now that I know our root is the x coordinate of the x-intercept, I'd like you to find all the roots of the y equals to 4x squared plus 4x plus 1. Please put all of your answers in this box but separate them with commas. Keep in mind what this means in terms of our graph. If we're looking for the roots of this, then we need to set y equal to 0, since the roots are the x-values that will satisfy the quadratic equation that goes along with this. Now, I could factor this, that would be one way of solving, but I'm going to use the quadratic formula just to see what happens. So, I have negative 4 plus or minus the square root of 4 squared minus 4 times 4 times 1, all over 2 times 4. Let's simplify. Now, this is starting to look pretty interesting. We have 16 minus 16 under the radical sign. So, that means that we're adding 0 or subtracting 0 from negative 4. This is the only number that we can add and subtract negative 4 and get the same answer, just negative 4. This is pretty strange, it's quite the conundrum. If x equals negative 4 over 8, that's a single answer. So, we get a final answer that the root is negative 1 half, and there's only one of them. So we just found only one root for the polynomial 4x squared plus 4x plus 1. My question is what does only having one real root mean for the graph of the equation? Does it there's only on x-intercept? Does it mean there is only on y-intercept? Does it mean that there is only one vertex, or does it mean that we made a mistake? It means that there's only one x-intercept. To see this in action, let's take a look at the graph of the problem that we were looking at on the last quiz. So, here's the graph of y equals 4x squared plus 4x plus 1. We found before that the root of this was negative 1 half. And we can see that the x -intercept is at negative 1 half, 0, just like we would expect. This parabola is special and that instead of crossing the x-axis going down and then crossing again, in other words, having 2 x-intercepts, it simply touches the x-axis at a single point, which is its x-intercept. Another example of a parabola that does this is the basic one, the parent graph, y equals x squared. You can imagine if we shifted this over and made a little bit wider, we would get back to this graph. Let's take a look at one last problem before we finish this lesson. I'd like you to find the roots of the parabola y equals x squared plus 2x plus 10. I'd like you to use the quadratic formula to do this, and get your values for x in the form, so that there's just a single number in each of these boxes . Since we're trying to find the roots of this equation, we need to set y equal to 0. Remember that the roots of the x-coordinates of the x-intercepts, which is where y equals 0. Now, let's use the quadratic formula to solve this. Plugging the proper coefficients into the proper spots in the quadratic formula, gives us x equals negative 2 plus or minus the square root of 2 squared minus 4 times 1 times 10, all over 2. Let's simplify. Well, this is getting pretty interesting. Look at what I have underneath my square root sign. We end up with negative 2 plus or minus the square root of negative 36 over 2. This is pretty shocking. This problem is asking us to take the square root of a negative number. We can't do that. We do not have any idea what real number this would equal. In fact, there is no real number that this equals. So, what does this mean? No solutions? No crossing in the x-axis? Well, we found a solution. Let's take a peek at the graph. So, here's the graph of y equals x squared plus 2x plus 10. Remember, when we were looking for roots, we're looking for the x-coordinates of x-intercepts of the graph. But look at were our vertex is, it's right here way above the x-axis and our parabola is point upward. Coming to the y-coordinate at this point right here is the smallest y-coordinate of any point on this graph. In other words, because this is the minimum point, the graph is never going to get any closer to the x-axis, and so it's never going to touch it at all. This is pretty fascinating. The weird thing is that we still got some sort of answer. You'll have to wait for the next lesson though, to find out what this means. We've helped Grant a ton throughout his journey building up his glasses wiper and nozzle enterprise. He's doing algebra all the time now to solve problems he encounters in his business and he knows how to do all of it because of us. He's been so successful that he was able to afford new office and he's trying to decorate his new place with art that reflects his products. Although he has different sculptures and paintings and other masterpieces strewn throughout his new space, one of the things he is most excited about is this fountain that looks like a giant wiper nozzle. He thinks he's worked out an equation for the trajectory of the water coming out of the fountain and then going up, falling down on the ground. However, he wants us to check that equation for him. Let's help him see if it's right. Just like we had with Grant's slingshot a few lessons ago, let's set up a coordinate plane so that the fountain is positioned at the origin, just like this. Now, I realized that the fountain is not as small as its single point on the coordinate plane but for the purposes of this question, let's just pretend like the entire thing is located exactly at the origin. From this position of the origin, the water is going to shoot up out of the fountain and then fall and end up slightly over to the right. Here's the equation that Grant came up with. Y equals negative 7x squared plus 14x minus 10. In this equation, x stands for the horizontal position of the water, at a given moment, and y stands for a corresponding vertical position for that same drop of water. So, every drop of water of this fountain should follow about this equation. Remember, this is just an approximation. We're sort of idealizing the situation, so just go with it. Now, if Grant is right, then one of the roots of this equation should be where the fountain is located, at 0. And the other should tell us where the water lands, over here. In other words, if we saw the quadratic equation that goes along with this equation for a parabola, then we should get those two solutions, those two roots. Let's use the quadratic formula to see if Grant is right. For now, I'd just like you to simplify the parts of the formula that belong in each of these boxes. Just put a number in each spot. When we plug in the proper coefficients to the proper spots in the quadratic formula, we can simplify to end up with, x equals negative 14, plus or minus the square root of negative 84 over negative 14. Now that we have an expression for x, we are moving closer to simplifying and finding a final solution. How many real roots do you think the equation will have? Try simplifying this expression we have x equal to, and see how many answers you know how to get from that. There will be zero real roots. Looking at what we have for x, we need to take the square root of a negative number. And right now, we don't know how to do that. So we can't solve this. Thinking about what we just discovered about the roots of this equation, do you think that this equation that Grant came up with accurately describes the path of the fountain water? Remember to think about the picture and what kind of parabola we need to produce this. No. This equation is not going to cut it. Let's take a peek at the graph to compare. This is really interesting. Our equation clearly graphs a parabola, and we have numbers in every spot in our quadratic formula, so it looks like we should be able to get some solutions. The question is what kind of solutions are they. We can see that the maximum of the graph here is below the X axis. So no point on this parabola is every going to cross the line Y equals 0. What does it mean to have a root then? We clearly have some pretty important stuff to talk about. At the end of the last lesson and now with Grant's latest issue as well, we've seen that sometimes parabolas don't have two real roots. Remember that a root is a value for x that satisfies a quadratic equation. Now, there's a single part of the quadratic formula that we can look at to determine how many real roots of parabola will have. That expression is called the discriminate. Just to remind you, here's the general form for a quadratic equation, and the quadratic formula for calculating the roots of that equation. Knowing that the discriminate on it's own is what determines the number of real roots, which of the following expressions down here do you think is a discriminate? Is it negative b, negative b plus or minus the square root of b squared minus 4ac, b squared negative 4ac, b squared minus 4ac, or 2a? The discriminant of a problem is the expression b squared minus 4ac, now have you got this right, awesome job and if not, seriously don't worry about it all, this required a tone of critical thinking. Now the reason that this expression determines the number of roots in our problem Is that, first off, we're taking the square root of it. And secondly, we're both adding and subtracting this number from negative b. Let's continue talking about this, since it's pretty subtle and seems to be a little complex. Now that we know what the discriminant is. For a quadratic it's b squared minus 4 a c. What do you think it is about the discriminant that's important for determining how many real roots we'll have. Is it its absolute value? Whether or not it's a perfect square? Whether it's rational or irrational? Whether it's even or odd? Or whether it's positive, negative or zero? The sign, or lack of sign, of a discriminant. So whether it's positive, negative or zero, is what determines how many real roots we have. I think we need to talk a little bit more about this. Let's talk about signs for a second. For real numbers, we have 3 different cases. Every real number is either negative, 0, or positive. Now since discriminants are made of real numbers, assuming that the coefficients of our quadratic equation are real, then they had to fall into these 3 categories. Each of these types of discriminants matches a certain number of roots Of a parabola, or in other words, a certain number of solutions to our quadratic equation, which we can of course find by our quadratic formula, using the disciminate. So here are 3 types of discriminates, and which type do you think produces 2 real roots, which type do you think produces 1 real root, and which type do you think produces no real roots? if the discriminate is positive, we end up with 2 real roots. If it's negative, we have no real roots and if it's 0 we have 1 real root. Let's look at why. Here's our quadratic formula written out once again, and I've written the discriminant b squared minus 4ac in teal. It's important to note that we're taking the square root of this number, and as we've said many times before, we only know how to take the square root of non-negative numbers, non-negative real numbers to be exact. So if we have a negative number under here, we're not going to get any real solutions. However, we need to make another distinction among the numbers that do give us real solutions. If we have a 0 under here, then we only get 1 real solution. Since we'll have negative b plus or minus 0, and either adding or subtracting zero from negative b gives us the same number, just negative b. So we would just get negative b over 2a. If the discriminant is 0. That's only 1 answer. This is only 1 number. It's our plus or minus, which is what split this into 2 solutions originally, is no longer doing that for us. If b squared minus 4ac is positive, then we'll get some real number here and negative b plus that number will be different from negative b minus that number. So in that case we will wind up with 2 roots, two positions where we know that our parabola hits the x axis. So, we're interested in exploring the situation where a determinant, b squared minus 4ac, is negative or less than 0. The reason this is an issue is because we know we need to take the square root of the determinant, and right now, we have no idea what taking the square root of a negative number means. None of the types of numbers we've dealt with so far can express the answer to this equation. So, I guess that means we're going to need a new kind of number. Let's look back then at all the kinds of numbers we have dealt with. Here's a diagram depicting our world of numbers that Julie introduced in the very first lesson of the course. I know this looks a little bit different because I decided to use rectangles this time instead of circles, but all the sets and subsets have the same relationship to one another. You can see that we have the natural numbers, which are inside of the whole numbers, which are inside of the integers, which are inside of the rationals. And together, the rationals and the irrational numbers make up the real numbers. The question I have for you then is where this new kind of number we're talking about belongs. We see that the number n is some negative real number. Where should we put the square root of n? Does it belong in the natural numbers? The whole numbers? The integers? The rationals? The irrational numbers? Or outside of the real numbers? We know that we don't know how to get a solution within the real numbers, for expressing the square root of a negative number. So that means it needs to go outside of the real numbers, in what right now looks like a sort of no man's land. I think that means that we actually need to define a new part of our diagram. They said that the square root of a negative number belonged outside of the portion of diagram that contains the real numbers. So in this area over here. And since we don't have a name for the type of numbers right now, we need to come up with one. And since these numbers are real numbers. You might as well call these numbers imaginary numbers, since they're not real. I think this is a pretty cool term. It's hard to even think about what the number that's imaginary means, or what it really is. We'll get a handle on this soon enough. For now though, let's talk about the simplest imaginary number we have. Well in my mind the simplest negative number I can think of is negative 1. The number related to this that we're interested in then, is the square root of negative 1. Now because this is the simplest of that new type of numbers that we're talking about; the imaginary numbers, it gets a special name. It gets its own letter, i, because it's the simplest imaginary number. Note that even though this is a letter representing a number, this is not a variable. It's a constant. Just like we have numbers like pi and e that also have letters going along with, with them. I is just representing the constant, the square root of -1.. So let's play around with I a little bit. Since we know that i is just a number, albeit, a new kind of number, but still just a number. We should be able to take it to different powers. For each of these, I'd like you to write in what number you think it's equal to. So what is i to the 0, what is i to the 1, what is i to the 2, etc. Now of course, since I is an imaginary number, we would assume that some of these answers at least, will be imaginary numbers as well. So I itself will probably appear somewhere in here. Remember though, that because this is just another number exponents work with it in exactly the same way. I to the five is just equal to I times itself five. Times. Or 5 i's multiplied together. I think you might see something interesting happen when you do these. Also 1 last note. If you ever feel tempted to write the square root of 1, just write i instead. Now since i is just another number, like all other numbers i to the 0 power is just equal to 1. This may seem a little bit funny, because 1 is a real number. But I think this is more a testament to the fact that i and all other imaginary numbers are in fact numbers, i to the first power is just i, i squared is i times itself. Which means we're multiplying the square root of negative 1 times the square root of negative 1, that should just give us negative 1. Now i cubed is going to be i squared times i. So we have negative 1 times i which is negative i. Interesting. So we only have ones and i's, the positive and negative versions over here. Let's see what happens in this column, i to the fourth should be i to the third times i again. That means we're multiplying the square root of negative 1 by itself and then taking the negative of that number. So this is negative, negative 1, which is just equal to 1. But that's funny, that's the same as i to the 0, i to the 5th is i to the 4th times i. So 1 times i which is i again. That's the same as i to the first. And we can see the pattern continues for i to the sixth and i to the seventh, so it seems like when we take powers of i, the numbers that they're equal to alternate in a cyclic way. We go from 1 to i to negative 1 to negative i back to 1 and so on. I think this pattern is really interesting, and keeping this in mind is going to help us remember the relationship between real numbers and imaginary numbers. Since we're thinking about powers, I'd like to backtrack for a second and deal with an equation involving a real number. Can you tell me what the solution to X squared equals 3 is? I'd like you to write this as an exact answer, not as a decimal. And remember to be careful about what happens when you want to get rid of an exponent. Make sure that you cover all of the possible solutions for X. X needs to be equal to plus or minus the square root of 3. Since we know that either the negative square root of 3 multiplied by itself equals 3, and the positive square root of 3 multiplied by itself equals 3. So let's use a similar notation for a slightly different problem. What is the solution to x squared equals negative 1? We've already talked about one number this could be, so think about, consideirng the last quiz, if there are any others. And try and write this in compact a way as possible. Just like we knew that x squared equals 3 had the solutions plus or minus the square root of 3, here x is equal to plus or minus the square root of negative 1. However, we know that the square root of negative 1 has a different name. It's just i, the number we've been talking about. So either positive i, or negative i can multiply by itself to equal negative 1. However, we said that the positive version of the square root of negative 1 is equal to I. And logically then, the negative version is equal to negative I. Continuing along the same vein, let's play around with another similar problem. This time, can you tell me what the solutions to x to the fourth equals 1 are? I'll remind you that we saw earlier that i to the fourth equals 1. So that gives you one answer. And also tell you that there are several that belong in this box. Think really carefully about what these could be, and seperate your answers with commas once you've figured them out. The numbers one, negative one, i and negative i all, when taken to the fourth power, equal one. In case you're curious about how exactly this works, I've written them all out for you here. I think probably taking negative i to the fourth power is the least intuitive of these, but we know that when we multiply two negatives together, the negative signs cancel one another our basically. So negative i times negative i is just i squared which is negative 1. So negative i to the fourth is really just negative 1 squared or 1. This is another way where imaginary and real numbers interact in a super fascinating way in my opinion at least. Who would have thought that there are all these different numbers that are multiplied by themselves 4 times equal to 1? We've already seen the number negative i, so presumably we can put different real coefficients in front of i. 3i for example, is equal to just i plus i plus i, or 3 i added together. So again imaginary numbers operate in pretty much the same way as real numbers. Thinking about this, what do you think we get if we square 3i, apply the same rules that you know worked for real numbers. Real numbers, and simplify this answer as much as you can. We know that the exponent needs to distribute to both factors that are multiplied together to make up this term. So this equals 3 squared times i squared. We know that 3 squared is just 9, and we know that i squared is just negative 1. So 3i squared equals negative 9. We've already seen that we can solve the equation x squared equals negative 1. Using our new kind of numbers, imaginary numbers. And we got x equals plus or minus i as the solution to this equation. We should be able to then, solve equations like this. X squared equals negative 9. Please write your solutions in this box and simplify them as much as you can. To get x by itself, and come up with our solutions, we need to get rid of our exponent. So, we need to take the square root of both sides. Taking the square root of x squared just gives us x, and on the right side, we need to take the positive and negative versions of the square root of negative 9. Now, let's think about what to do with this radical and the number underneath it. We can rewrite negative 9 as negative 1 times 9 and as we learned before, if we have two factors both written under a radical sign, we can apply the radical to both of them individually, just like we can with exponents. So now, we have plus or minus the square root of negative 1 times the square root of 9. Now, the square root of negative 1 is just i, and the square root of 9 is just 3. So, our answer is plus or minus 3i. Remember, that this means that if we substitutes in either 3i or negative 3i in place of x, it will satisfy our equation. What are the solutions to x squared equals negative 25? Our answer is similar to the question before, we get plus or minus 5i. I'll show you the work that I did to get this. So again, I went through the same process as in the question before. Separating the factors under the radical, into the positive and negative parts, which then gave me a real factor, and an imaginary factor. And of course, we can't forget that plus or minus sign, since we're taking the square root of both sides. Let's use our new-found knowledge of imaginary numbers to deal with a situation we were interested in initially, when we have a parabola that doesn't touch the x axis. Here I'm showing you the graph of y minus 16 equals the quantity x minus 3 squared. If we set Y equal to 0 and therefore try to find the x intercepts, we know we won't get any real solutions. However, we also have new equipment to help deal with this situation. Maybe imaginary numbers will help us out. Let's see what we can do using the number i. I'd like you to solve this equation then either by completing the square or by using the quadratic formula. Completing the square here is easy since, well the square is already completed for us, so I am not even going to bother using the quadratic formula all we need to do is modify the equations that it reads x minus 3 the quantity squared equals negative 16 then we just take the square root of both sides And of course we can't forget our plus or minus over here, on the right side. We can go through the same steps as we did in the past couple of quizzes, to end up with x minus 3 equals plus or minus 4i. Now here, to get x by itself, we just need to add 3 to both sides. And we end up with a final answer of x equals 3, plus or minus 4i. Let's check our new answer. So we're going to plug in 3 plus or minus 4 i in the spot of x in our equation. So remember this is either 3 plus 4 i or 3 minus 4 i. So for now let's just pick one. Let's pick the plus. So if we let x equal 3 plus 4 i then. What does x minus 3 squared simplify to? It simplifies to give us negative 16. Which is exactly what we need since negative 16 plus 16 equals 0. Let's think a little bit more about one of our solutions, 3 plus 4i, the one we were working with in the last problem. Now this is an interesting number, because it has one part of it that looks real and one part of it that looks imaginary. So my question for you is where on our world of numbers diagram it belongs. Please select the spot where you think it should be positioned. 3 plus 4i is neither purely imaginary nor purely real. So it belongs in this spot outside of those two boxes. It looks like yet again we're going to need a new kind of number. At least, a new name for a type of number. So once again we need a new kind of number classification, one that goes beyond just imaginary numbers and just real numbers. You can see I've drawn a new giant rectangle around both of those families of numbers and labeled it with the name complex numbers. So examining our new diagram, can you tell me which of the following statements are true? All real numbers are complex. All complex numbers are real. All imaginary numbers are complex. All complex numbers are imaginary. All real numbers are imaginary, or all imaginary numbers are real. Please check off as many of these as you think are true. Be careful in remembering how our diagram works. In particular, how do you tell if one set of numbers is a subset of another set? Only two of these are true. All real numbers are complex and all imaginary numbers are complex. Let's look at our diagram. We can see that the complex number rectangle contains all of the other rectangles inside it. So that means that every rectangle that's inside the complex number rectangle Contains numbers all of which are complex numbers. Since the imaginary numbers and the real numbers are all inside of the complex numbers they are all complex. However the complex number rectangle is not contained inside any of these other rectangles. All of those categories are subsets of it. So there is no other category that we can group all complex numbers into on this diagram. Since the real numbers and the imaginary numbers are completely separate rectangles, they are separate groups. Neither one is a subset of the other. We just came to the conclusion that all real numbers are complex and all imaginary numbers are also complex. However, we also saw a different number earlier the one that motivated our entire discussion of complex numbers, but seemed to not fit into the category of real numbers, or the category of imaginary numbers perfectly. So, I think what we need is a general statement for the form of a complex number, which of these do you think is a way to write that general form. Please note here that in all these answer choices a and b are real numbers. A complex number is any number that can be written in the form a plus bi, where a and b are real numbers. And, of course, i is just the square root of negative 1. This fits with the number that we use as our motivation for coming up with complex numbers in the first place. Remember that number was 3 plus 4i. So here, a is 3 and b is 4. 3 and 4 are real numbers. So, this is perfect. That fits. 3 plus 4i is a complex number. Since real numbers and imaginary numbers are both subsets of the complex numbers then we need to be able to write all the numbers that are in both of those subsets in the form a plus b i. Something special happens though for these numbers a and b for the real numbers and something special for the imaginary numbers. For all the real numbers what needs to be set equal to zero in this form, and for all imaginary numbers what needs to be set equal to zero? For all real numbers we want the coefficient in front of the i to be 0 so b needs to equal 0. That way we'll get rid of the second term and only have the constant a, which is a real number. For imaginary numbers we need a to be equal to 0. That way all we'll have left is b times i the imaginary part of a complex number. We can see from the general form for a complex number, a plus bi, that complex numbers have both a real part, which comes from the number a, and imaginary part, which comes from this part bi. Remember a and a are just real numbers here, but this part bi is an imaginary part, because of the i. And we can talk about the size of a real number, by plotting it on a simple number line, because there's just a linear progression of numbers, higher and lower than zero. Because complex numbers have these two parts though, the real and the imaginary, we can't plot them in a one dimensional way. Instead, we need to plot them on a two dimensional axis, similar to the Cartesian Coordinate Plane we've been working with. This fulfills a very different purpose though. We're not graphing equations on here, we're not relating variables x and y to one another, we're just graphing numbers that are written in this form. What we do is we label this horizontal axis on our plane, the Real axis. And we say that the vertical axis, is the Imaginary axis. So for any complex number, written in the form a plus bi, we can instead write it as the point, a comma b, on this coordinate plane. So the horizontal coordinate, comes from the value of the real part, and the vertical coordinate comes from the coefficient of the imaginary part. Let's look at an example. So i plot the point, 4 comma 6, on our set of axis, this translates into the complex number 4 plus 6i, that's what's being depicted by this point on this plane. Let's say we want to express negative 7 plus 2i, we go to negative 7 horizontally, and then up 2. So on this plane, we can graph any number written in this form. Now that we've talked about how points are graphed on the complex plane, I'd like you to tell me what each of the points labeled on the graph represents. Be sure that you write your answers in the form a plus bi, where and, and b are just real numbers. All we need to do here are figure out the coordinates of each of our points, and then recognize that the horizontal one is a and the vertical one is b. So for example, we know that point a has the coordinates 3,5, so the complex point it represents is 3 plus 5i. Similarly b is 5+3i. Let's look at a point in a different quadrant, maybe point f over here. The coordinates of f are negative 5, negative 3, so that represents the number negative 5 minus 3i. Once again, I've labeled some points on our complex plane. And I've labeled them with the letters a through h. For each of these three questions, I'd like you to fill in the letter that corresponds to the point that the question's asking about. So which point represents the number 7? Which one represents the number negative 7i? And which one represents the number negative 7 plus 7i? Remember that the complex number a plus bi can be graphed on this coordinate plane as the point a,b. So, we need to figure out how each of these points is written in this form, or what a and b are each equal to. The number 7 is equal to 7 plus 0i, if you want to write it like this. So it should be the point 7,0, which is c over here. This makes sense. This is a real number, so it's written strictly along the real axis. A similar thing happens for negative 7i, which is just an imaginary number. Here, a is equal to 0 since there's no real part to this number, so its coordinates should be 0, negative 7, which is this point e. Now, negative 7 plus 7i is already written in a plus bi form or it's already recognizably written that way. So, its coordinates are negative 7, 7, which is point h. So you've seen that complex numbers are just another kind of number, a type of number that subsumes both the real numbers and the imaginary numbers, and also contains some numbers that are part of each. Part imaginary and part real, so presumably we can manipulate complex numbers then in the same way that we manipulate real, Real numbers. Let's try this out and see if it works. What if I'd like you to add 2 complex numbers tegether, let's say 3 plus 4I and 5 minus 2I. What do you think you'll get? This is obviously not something that we've done before together so, just try it out. Think back though, to adding like terms and how we practiced that pretty early on in the course. The sum is just 8 plus 2i. We need to recognize here what things you can add together and what things we can't. 3 and 5 are both the real parts of these nubers so they can combine and 4i and negative 2i are the two imaginary parts so they can combine to give us 2i. Let's try a subtraction problem now. What is 11 minus 6i minus the quantity 4 plus 2i? The answer is 7 minus 8i. 11 minus 4 is 7. And negative 6i minus 2i is negative 8i. Now let's try some multiplication of Complex Numbers. What do you think 4 plus 5i times 2 plus 3i is? Think about what you learned about multiplying polynomials together before. The final answer we get when multiplying these complex numbers together is negative 7 plus 22i. So how do we get this? Well, as before, we need to make sure each term in the first set of parenthesis is multiplied by each term in the second set of parenthesis. So we start with 4 and multiply it by 2. And then also by 3i. And then we take 5i and multiply it by 2 and then by 3i as well. Then we just need to simplify it within each of these terms over here, combine like terms and come up with our final answer. I think the trickiest thing here is thinking about these middle terms and thinking about the final term. We can see here that multiplication involving imaginary numbers Works in pretty much the same that working with real numbers and variables does. We have 4 times 3i, the 4 multiplies the 3 to make 12. And then the i is still a factor,so it's multiplied in as well. 5i times 3i is just 5 times 3 times i times i or 15 times i squared, which is negative 1. Here, I've taken the two solutions to the equation we solved before and I'd like you to multiply them together. So what is 3 plus 4i times 3 minus 4i? I'd like you to work all these out by hand but before you do, think about what pattern you see here or how these two factors relate to one another and try to predict what kind of answer you'll get over here. Interestingly enough, we get 25. We know that when we multiply a real number by a real number, we get a real number. And we've seen before that if we multiply two imaginary numbers together, since we're multiplying something with an i to something else with an i, we end up with a real number for that term as well. In this case, we don't get an imaginary component for this final number because the middle terms cancel one another out. We have minus 12i and plus 12i. We can notice that the only difference between these two terms and the reason we get this answer is the sign of b. Keep this in mind as we move forward. So these two numbers 3 plus 4i and 3 minus 4i. Both of which you remember were solutions to a quadratic equation we solved before, are called complex conjugates of one another. Everything about them is the same. Except for the sign between their real and imaginary components. And when we multiply them together, we get a real number. Considering this new term, what do you think the complex conjugate of the number 2 minus 3i is? The complex conjugate of 2 minus 3i is just two plus 3i. Once again, we just look at the sign of the coefficient b over here, the coefficient of the imaginary part of the number and we flip it. It was negative and now it's positive. Let's look then at the graphical relationship between complex conjugates. The two orange points here are one pair of conjugates, 3 plus 4i and 3 minus 4i. And the teal points are another pair, 2 plus 3i and 2 minus 3i. What we notice is that the horizontal coordinate of either point in each pair is the same. But the vertical coordinate is just flipped so each point is just a reflection of the point it matches with across the real axis. If we have the number negative 8 minus 4i, then its conjugate must be the point that has the same horizontal coordinate and the opposite vertical coordinate, so it will be this negative 8 plus 4i which does seem to be correct. Let's keep playing around with conjugates. First I'd like you to find the complex conjugate of 1 plus 9i and fill that into this orange box. Then I'd like you to find the product of 1 plus 9i in that conjugate. So write the conjugate again in this second set of parentheses and then multiply it by The original complex number. And fill the answer in this last box. The complex conjugate of 1 plus 9 I is just 1 minus 9 I. Now let's find their product. Having a bunch of 1's in here actually makes our multiplication pretty easy. I like that. Now you just need to simplify this final term and combine like terms. Notice already we can see these 2 terms, negative 9 I and positive 9 I. Cancel one another out just like we had happen with our previous conjugate pair multiplied together. I would like to pause at this step for a second where we have 1 minus 81 i squared and note that this is a difference of 2 squares. This is actually what we would expect to get when we are multiplying things like this together. Remember that we learned quite early on in the course that when we multiply something in the form a plus b times a minus b. We get a squared minus b squared. This is exactly what's happening here. 1 is equal to 1 times 1 or a squared, and 81i squared is equal to 9i, the quantity squared. Now of course, we can simplify 81i squared because this is just a real number. Number. I squared is just negative 1. And negative 81 times negative 1 is positive 81, so our answer is 82. We've been talking a lot about complex numbers together, but what if we have a situation like this, where we have one complex number divided by another complex number? Since right now, both the numerator and the denominator each have a real and an imaginary component and one is not directly a factor of the other one, we can't do anything with this expression. We often encounter fractions like this, and usually, what we do to manipulate them differently is to change the denominator in some way. What I'd like us to do then is to figure out how to change the denominator of this fraction so that it ends up being the smallest real number we can make it, other than 0, of course, since we don't want to divide by 0. So, think critically about the past few quizzes we've done and what you can multiply one complex number by to get a real number. Fill in whatever we need to multiply at the top and bottom of this fraction by, to come up with an equivalent fraction that has a real number in the denominator. I know this is new and it probably feels a little bit difficult right now but just give it a shot, and if you feel like you need to review a little bit to prepare for this question, you can go back and what the past couple of videos. We saw earlier, that if we multiply a complex number by its conjugate, the middle terms cancel out and so we end up with a real number. This is exactly what we're looking for in this situation, to make our denominator what we want it to be. Since we don't want to change the value of this fraction that we had initially, we need to multiply by 1 in the form of the conjugate over itself. Now, we just need to multiply the numerators of these fractions and their denominators. At first start of multiplying out, gives us a fraction that I think is pretty clear we can reduce a little bit more. So, let's keep simplifying. Our final answer is negative 7 plus 22i all over 13. I think this definitely looks a lot more manageable than what we started out with. Awesome job. We just simplified 4 plus 5 i, over 2 minus 3 i, to be written instead as negative 7 plus 22 i over 13. This is clearly a complex number, but it's not written in the form that we usually see complex numbers written in. So the last step, in modifying this initial complex number, I'd like you to write our answer in the form a plus bi. So put the real part of the number here and the imaginary component here. In fact I'll even write in the i for you. So you just need to tell me what a and b are here. We just need to divide both of the terms in the enumerator by 13. So a is negative 7 over 13, and b is 22 over 13. So here's another one for you to try out on your own. I've given you the expression 4 minus i divided by 1 plus 5 i. And I'd like you to go about changing the denominator to a real number, so that you can eventually write this number in the form a plus bi. Then fill your final answer into this box. So our answer here isn't really very pretty, but it is something that we can tell right off the bat is a complex number, and we can tell how big the real part is, and how big the imaginary part is. Our answer is negative 1 over 26, minus 21 over 26 i. I'd like to take a slight tangent here, very slight and very brief, and look at a number like this, 6 over the quantity 1 minus the root of 2. Now, at first sight, this may seem completely unrelated to what we were just talking about. But I'd like you to focus on the denominator for a second. The problem that I see with this quantity, and the reason that we can't really do anything with this fraction right now, is that there's a rational part and an irrational part in our denominator. I think in general, numbers are easier to work with the closer they get toward the center of that world of numbers diagram. So, let's see if we can make our denominator have only one component, probably just a rational component instead of an irrational one. So, what number would you need to multiply the numerator and denominator of this fraction by in order to come up with an equivalent fraction, where the denominator is a rational number and, of course, it's not equal to 0? Here's another one for you to try out on your own. I've given you the number, the square root of 2 divided by the quantity negative 3 plus square root of 5. And I'd like you to rewrite this by first changing the denominator that is a rational number, instead of having both rational and irrational components. And then I'd like you to simplify the fraction as much as you can. We start out by multiplying the top and the bottom of our fraction by the conjugate of our initial denominator. So that means we're multiplying by negative three minus the square root of five, over negative three minus the square root of five. We can't really simplify the numerator. It's just going to stay as negative three times the square root of two minus the square root of ten. The denominator does simplify however, since we know that the square root of five squared is just five. And nine minus five is just four. So this is our final answer, negative three times the square root of two minus the square root of ten all divided by four. Now that we've had a lot of practice dealing with complex numbers, let's go back to that original problem we were trying to solve or at least a problem of a similar form. I want you to find the roots of this equation for a parabola Y equals X squared plus 4. Remember that a root is an X value when Y equals 0. If you get more than one answer, I'd like you to note that you should separate them by commas. To find the roots we need to replace y with 0 and then we just isolate x. After a slight bit of arranging we've x squared equals negative 4. We can already recognize at this point that is going to need to be an imaginary number. Otherwise when we squared we wouldn't end up with negative. When we take the square root of both sides here, we need to make sure that 1 of the sides has a plus or minus before the radical sign. And simplifying the right side, gives us that x is equal to plus or minus 2i. Now let's backtrack to an equation we've seen before. Y equals x squared plus 2x plus 10. I'd like you to do the same thing that we did in the last question, or at least look for the same thing. I want you to find the roots of this equation. Once again, if you get more than one answer, separate them by commas. Using the quadratic formula we come up with the final answer of -1 plus or minus 3i. This is awesome. We're finally using our knowledge of this new group of numbers, and we knew that you were going to have to do that because the number that's underneath the square root sign is negative. Let's look at another equation. This time I'd like you to find the roots of y plus 10 equals negative 2 times the quantity x minus 3, squared. When you write the solutions to this equation, I'd like you to write them as compactly as you can, and also to use the standard form for complex numbers, a plus bi. Since we're looking for roots, once again we set y equal to zero. Which is just going to leave a 10, on the left side of the equation, and change nothing about the right side. Now we need to move toward getting x by itself. You can notice that I actually didn't use the quadratic formula, in solving this equation. Instead, I just undid all the operations that had been performed on x on the right side of the equation. Eventually this led me to the answer of x equals 3 plus or minus i times the square root of 5. Now one thing to note about the way that I've written this answer. You'll see that I wrote i in front of the radical sign, whereas we'd normally write in the form a plus bi, where the real coefficient of the imaginary portion comes in front of the number i. However, to avoid confusion as to whether or not the i belongs under the radical sign, it's often written in front of the square root sign instead. This is similar to if we had something like 3 times the root of five, writing the number this way is usually the convention. Rather than this way, just to make perfectly clear what doesn't belong under the radical sign. Either way though, with the i as the first factor, or the i coming after the square root of 5, is mathematically correct. As one last problem for now, I'd like you to find the roots of this equation. Y equals X squared plus 8X plus 16. I decided that I'd like to switch what was on either side of the equation just because I prefer to have x on the left side of the equation. This is just a personal preference. It doesn't change the math that we're doing at all. I also set y equal to 0 since we are, after all, looking for the roots of this equation. Now, what we notice here is that you can actually factor this expression on the left. X squared plus 8x plus 16 Is just equal to the quantity x plus 4 times the quantity x plus 4 well these two factors are clearly both going to give us the same root since they are equal to each other, so from this we just get one equation x plus 4 equals 0 that needs to be satisfied in order for this equation to be satisfied Fine. So we get a root of x equals negative 4. Now even though we only got one answer here for x, we must notice that the factor that this came from appears twice in the equation. So it's not so much that there's just one solution, it's that the two roots of this parabola happen to be identical to one another. In fact this root is so special that it gets a special name. It's called a double root. Let's talk a bit more generally then about all these different problems we've discussed and their roots. So reflecting on the huge number of quadratic equations we've worked with, how many solutions are there to any given quadratic equation? Please count repeated roots twice, and also remember that complex numbers and imaginary numbers, are in fact numbers. So answers that contain them do still count as solutions. There are two solutions for any given quadratic equation. Let's think back to how this emerges from the quadratic formula. It comes out of the presence of this plus or minus here in the numerator. This is going to give us two answers, negative b plus the square root of b squared minus four a c all over two a, and then the same thing except for a minus sign in between the negative b and the rest of the numerator. This also makes sense if we look at the general form for a quadratic equation as well. We have ax squared plus bx plus c equals 0 and in order to end up with a term involving an x squared in it, because we know that the coefficient a is not allowed to equal 0. We need to be able to multiply 2 things together that have a factor of x in them, since that's the only way you can get an x squared down here. That means that either of these factors needs to be able to be set equal to 0 and give us both solutions. So there are 2 solutions. Now here's a bit of a complex question. If a quadratic equation does not have 0 solutions with an imaginary component, how many solutions with an imaginary component does it have? Think really carefully about this. In fact, you might want to think about the quadratic formula and what kinds of solutions it gives us, and how those solutions relate to on another. If we know that a quadratic equation has some number of solutions with an imaginary component, then it has to have two of those kinds of solutions. So, in other words, it has to have two complex solutions neither of which has a coefficient of b equal to 0. Let's look at the quadratic formula to think about why this is true. And the quadratic formula gives us solutions that are in this form. Let's write out the two solutions separately for the time being. Written out like this, we can see what may have seen hidden to you little bit before. The only difference between this solution and this one is that there is a plus here between the negative b and this part, and there is a minus here between the negative b and this part under the radical sign. Now, since we know the imaginary part of our solution has to come from this part with the radical, and what will happen, of course, only at the discriminate under here is negative. That means, that these signs that are opposite one another are separating the real component of either solution from its imaginary component. That means, that any time we find imaginary solutions, or complex solutions with nonzero imaginary components for a quadratic equation, those 2 complex numbers are going to be complex conjugates of one another. This is super powerful, super potent. We're going to continue to think about this concept through many of the coming lessons. Finally let's return to working with Grant. He had just shown us this new equation that he'd come up with, that he thinks properly describes the trajectory of his fountain. The equation is y equals negative 7 x squared plus 14 x minus 10. First off, I'd like to know where the vertex of this parabola is. Fill in the coordinates right here. To get to the vertex form for the equation for this problem, we need to go through the process of completing the square, just like you've done many, many times before. The equation in vertex form is y plus 3 equals negative 7 times x minus 1 squared, which means that the vertex is at 1 comma negative 3. Now that you've worked so hard to figure out the vertex form of our equation, I've decided to show you the graph. Now I'll actually write the equation for the parabola in both forms, vertex form and standard form. And I'd like you to tell me what the roots of this parabola are. Remember simplify and write the answers in as compact a way as you can. The roots of this parabola are 1 plus or minus i times the square root of 21 over 7. This is a simple case of using the quadratic formula to solve, and actually I had to do this problem way earlier on in the lesson. You may not have even remembered it. And this time you got to do it totally on your own. And you've also got to write the answer in the complex notation that you know about now. Well, as we expected from our picture and from our work earlier on in the lesson, we got complex numbers as our roots. Now, looking at where the vertex of our parabola is below the x-axis, and the fact that the parabola is pointing downward, this curve doesn't really fit the situation that we're interested in. Remember, that y here in this equation and in this graph, is the vertical displacement from the ground of the water and x is the horizontal displacement of the water. Right now, the water is underground and that's not really what Grant's looking for in terms of decorations. So, what do you think is wrong with Grant's equation and his graph right now? There's one single thing that we can do to this graph that would fix the entire problem that we're having. The mislocation of the horizontal and veritcal coordinates of the water in Grant's fountain. So, what one step should we do to this graph to make it better describe that fountain's shape? Should we flip this parabola upside down? Should we translate it up? Translate it down? Make it wider? Make it skinnier? Translate it to the right? Translate it to the left? Or just leave it alone altogether? We just need to move this parabola up. After all, falling objects on Earth do obey parabolic motion because of gravity. And we do have then the proper shape. It just happens to be positioned in slightly the wrong place. So we know that we need to move this parabola up in order to make it fit our real world situation, but by how much do we need to move it up? If I'd like to have one of the roots of our parabola after we've moved it upward, equal to 0, then by how much do we need to translate this parabola upward? If we want 0 to be a root, that means that we want one of our x-intercepts and also our y-intercept to be point 0,0. Right now, the y-intercept is at negative 10, or rather 0, negative 10 so that we want to move that point from being down there to being up here. That means, we need to move the graph up 10 units. After we translate the parabola up by 10 units, as we decided we need to do, what is going to be the equation of that new parabola? Please write your answer in vertex form first, and then also in standard form. All we need to do to get our equation for a new parabola in vertex form is to look at the old equation in vertex form, and then shift the vertex up by 10. That means, the right side of the equation, which contains the horizontal component of the vertex is not going to change at all. The only thing that will change is the constant added to y on the left-hand side. We need to subtract 10 from here since we will be up by 10, and this gives us an equation of y minus 7 equals negative 7 times x minus 1 squared. To get this in standard form, we just need to multiply everything out and simplify. That gives us an answer of y equals negative 7x squared plus 14x. Once again I have updated the graph class. So now it shows the old graph that we have this original problem, the orange one. And then above that, the new graph that we have of the equation, y equals negative 7x squared plus 14x. Thinking back to how we settle the problem at first, we say that we should let the base of the fountain be situated at the origin. This is why we wanted one of the roots of our equation to be 0. So you can see that we've got the fountain lined up right here. This is where the water is spouting out from. Now, my question is how far from the base of the fountain will the water land? Assume that everything here is measured in meters. So figure out what point on a curve corresponds to the place where the water from the fountain hits the ground, and then, figure out how far away from the base of the fountain that is? What we're looking for here is just the other x intercept of our new graph. That's this point right here and its coordinates are 2, 0. So the water will land 2 meters from the base of the fountain. Alternatively, we could have of course figured this out from the equation alone. We can set up a quadratic equation, 0 equals negative 7x squared plus 14 x, then I could just factor the right side, which gives us 0 equals negative 7x times the quantity x minus 2. This equation will be satisfied if either negative 7x equals 0 or if the quantity x minus 2 equals 0. Of course, you get x equals 0 for the first solution, which is the one we already knew ahead of time. And then, we get x equals 2 for the second one, which is the one we just figured out. Grant doesn't have time to work with us anymore, because he's so busy selling tons of glasses wipers and nozzles. And plus, he already learned a ton from us about algebra. So, he's referred me to someone else who he thinks is going to help put a new spin on ways that algebra shows up in the real world. Our new friend is his cousin, Athena. She says hello, and she is super excited to start working with us. Now, just to give you some basic info about Athena. She is a college student living in UdaCity. In school, she is majoring in architecture, but she's still taking classes in some other subjects, including college algebra. Athena loves hanging out with her friends and her family and she has a really cute dog and a really cute cat. So, all in all, Athena leads a pretty happy life. One afternoon, as she was walking around in downtown Udacity, Athena happened upon a soda machine. And it looked so enticing that she decided to grab a drink. All the drinks from the soda machine cost $1.00. She put a dollar in the machine slot, pressed a button for which drink she wanted. And voila, out came a soda. She tasted her drink and since it was so delicious, she decided to buy one for her brother too, since she was about to stop by his house. So, she put another dollar in the machine and she got a second can of soda for him. Now, since the price per soda has the set value, a constant, of $1. What are two variable that we could very easily related to one another with an equation that uses this constant? Please pick two of these five choices down here. Would you want to use level of thirstiness, amount of money Athena puts in the machine, how hard Athena presses the button, how many brothers Athena has, or how many sodas the machine spits out? Which two of these belong together along with this constant of $1.00? We could relate how much money Athena puts into the machine, to how many sodas it will give her. As soon as she got her sodas, Athena hopped in her car and started to drive. Part way through the trip, her cell phone rang and she decided to answer the call. It was her brother, Nikos. He wanted to know how close she was getting to his house. So she started trying to figure out the distance she'd driven so far. Athena's been going at pretty much the same speed the entire time. So, what two quantities can she relate together in an equation that also involves that constant speed? Pick two of the four choices that are down here. Should the equation include the distance she's driven? The time her trip has taken? Her car's fuel efficiency? Or how much her car weighs? Athena wants to figure out the distance she's driven. So that's definitely one of the quantities that we want to work with. And she can relate this to the time that her trip has taken so far, since we're using the speed. Now that we know that we want to discuss the distance Athena has driven and the time she spent driving, which of the following statements makes the most sense in the context of her story. Do you think that time spent driving and distance driven are not related? Do you think that time spent driving depends on distance driven? Or, do you think that distance driven depends on time spent driving? The distance that Athena has driven depends on the time that she spent driving. The more time that she spends moving at a constant speed, the further she will have gone. Now thinking back to the soda machine part of our story, can we make a similar statement about the quantities we wanted to connect in that case? Which one of these choices do you think makes the most sense? Is it that the number of sodas the machine spits and the amount of money that Athena puts in are not related at all? Is it that the number of sodas the machine spits out depends on the amount of money that Athena puts in? Or is it that the amount of money Athena puts in depends on the number of sodas the machine spits out. Think about how cause and effect, or input and output play a role in this part of the story. The number of sodas that the machine spits out depends on the amount of money that Athena puts in. In other words, the amount of money she puts in the machine determines how many sodas will come out of the machine. Without any money going in, there are no sodas coming out. Since we've talked about several situations now that involve two different variables or two quantities that we might want to relate to one another in an equation. I think we should review what equations with two variables really mean. Now, I gave you this exact quiz way, way back in Lesson 5-1. But looking at it again might refresh our memories a bit. So, what can an equation with two variables do? Can it describe mathematical relationship between two variables? Can it show the output for a given input? Can it show how changing one quantity changes another quantity? Or can it demonstrate cause and effect? Please pick as many of these answers as you think are correct. All of these options can correctly describe an option with variables, depending on the real life situation it's meant to represent. So we can see from this quiz that equations with two variables are really powerful tools. However, not all variables that are connected, are connected in the same way. For example, some situations will involve cause and effect, but not all of them will. So bottom line, we need to think critically about the quantities we're dealing with, when we're forming equations, to figure out how we should connect the different variables that are involved. Remember that we can often represent quantities in the real world with variables and then connect these with equations. In these two situations that we just considered concerning Athena's afternoon, we saw that there was a relationship of dependence between the two things that we could express with variables. The number of sodas that came out of the machine depended on the amount of money that Athena put into it. And the distance she driven along the road depended on the amount of time she spent driving. In both of these cases the value of one variable helps determine the value of another variable. So one way we could describe what dependence means in the case of algebra at least, is that in an equation that involves dependence, the value of one of the variables helps determine the value of another variable. Now a couple of other situations that involve dependence between quantities surfaced during Athena's trip. Athena used the gas pedal while she was driving, and when she got to her brother's house she tossed him a can of soda. Now for each of these two new situations, please tell me which of the sentences below, probably describes the situation involving dependents. The rate at which Athena's car accelerates depends on how hard she presses down on the gas pedal. Athena makes the choice about how hard to press down on the gas pedal and then that action determines how the car's motion changes. The second option down here doesn't really makes sense. The car doesn't change its own motion, and then affect Athena's foot. For the second one, the can's height above the ground depends on the amount of time that has passed since Athena tossed the can. The can's height doesn't control how time passes, time passes on its own. We can, however, look at how the height of the can changes from moment to moment. Now in this course so far, we've seen a ton of different equations involving two variables. Things for example like y equals 3x plus 2. Now equations in two variables can express input and output, causing effect or some sort of other relationship involving dependence. The note seemed like the two variables in the equation would each play a different role. Perhaps it's that one of these two variables needs to depend on the other. Now just like in this equation right here, a lot of the other equations we've seen at different parts of the class, have been written in the same form. As y equals some sort of expression involving x. We saw that we could write quadratics in this form too. And there were a lot of situations in which isolating y by itself on one side was really conveinent for solving for different quantites. Now those equations were all written in the form y equals some expression where x is the variable. And if we have an equation that's written in this form, which of these three statements down here do you think is implied? In an equation like this does x depend on y? Does y depend on x? Or, is there no relationship of dependence between x and y? In other words, does one of these two quantities help determine the value of the other one? When we write an equation like this, we're expressing y in terms of x. What we're doing on the right side of the equation, in this expression, is taking x, and then, manipulating the value of that variable in some way. That shows how it's related to y. If our equation is y equals 2x plus 3, for example. What we're saying is that, in order to get the value of y, take the value for x, multiply it by 2 and then add 3. And that will give you the number that you're looking for. Since the number we plug in for x is going to help determine the value of y, we can say that y depends on x. We just said that for an equation written in this form, y usually depends on x. Now if this is true, how could we properly complete this sentence? Which of these two variables, x or y, is called the independent variable? And which of the two is called the dependent variable? Please write the choice you think is correct in either box. In an equation like this, in order to calculate the value of y, we need to pick a value of x to plug in to the right side. And then that, in turn, will tell us what y is equal to. Now, of course you can always rearrange equations and solve for x instead, but we tend to write equations like this when we've assigned variables in such a way that y is generally what we're going to be looking for and x is more what we're given. So, for example in the situations we've talked about, the independent variable has been things like time, a sort of more fundamental quality, and the dependent variable has been things like number of sodas spit out, or height of a throw. Overall in the natural state of things, y is going to be determined by x. Now, we've already talked about x as the independent variable, and y as the dependent variable, in equations that are written like this. So, we know we can think about the relationship between x and y, in terms of y depending on x or, alternatively, x being the cause and y being its effect. But we can also think about this in terms of input and output. In the soda machine example we looked at earlier, the input was the amount of money that Athena put in this sort of machine, and the output was the number of soda's that came out of the machine. So, for an equation like this, which quantity do you think represents the input, and which one do you think represents the output? Since we need to plug in a value of x to end up with a value for y, x is the input and y is the output. Now that we've talked about independent and dependent variables, and inputs and outputs, which of those are paired together? Please complete this sentence by filling input in one of these two blanks and output in one of these two blanks. We can think of the independent variable as the input and the dependent variable as the output. So in an equation like y equals 3x plus 2, the input would be whatever number we plug in for x, and the output is the number that we get for y by using that value of x. The output depends on the input. Now let's take another sort of toy example, of two quantities that we could very easily relate to one another, with an equation, where one of the quantities depends on the other quantity. And think about the relationship between those two variables a little bit more. So let's say that we have a candy machine, for which there is a set price for candy. So if I put one kind of coin in the candy machine, it gives me a certain amount of candy. So in this case the input, is the amount of money that you put into the candy machine. Just like for Athena, with her soda machine the input was the money that she put into the soda machine. And the output here, is the amount of candy that comes out of the machine, just like the number of sodas was the output for Athena earlier. So which of these two statements do you think makes the most sense? For a given amount of money put in, there's more than one possibility for the amount of candy that the candy will dispense. Or for a given amount of money put in, there is at most one possibility for the amount of candy that the machine will dispense. Think about how this machine works, and how you think that input and output should be related to each other. For a given amount of money put in there is at most one possibility for the amount of candy that machine will dispense. This makes a lot of sense if you think about real life and how machines like this would work. If you put a dollar in the machine, a certain amount candy will come out. And the next time you put a dollar in, that same amount of candy will come out again since the price for the candy is set. If this first choice with the case, then any given amount of money could spit out a ton of different amounts of candy. It wouldn't be a very fair machine. And people would probably get really frustrated and not buy candy from it anymore. Now the relationship between the variables in the candy machine situation we just talked about is of a special type, it's called a function. Now some more strictly mathematical examples of functions are things like I've written right here. Y equals negative 2 x plus 5. Y equals x squared plus 5 x plus 6. Y equals negative 5. There are ton of other ones. Pretty much all of the equations for lines and problems that you've seen in this course are functions. We just haven't been using this word yet. Now, however it is time. Think back to the relationship between the input and output in the gumball examples from the last quiz. And then please complete this sentence here for me. If we consider x to be the input and y to be in the output of some function. Then there is no more than one value of, what for a given value of what. Remember again, how you answered the similar question for the candy example. You can also, of course, look at values of x and y that satisfy each of these equations, or you can graph them to figure this out. So, for any given function when we're considering x to be the input and y to be the output, there's never going to be more than one value of y for any value of x that we look at. Now, since I told you that these were some examples of functions, why don't we take a look at each of them and see how this concept applies. So first, you have the line y equals negative 2x plus 5, which I've drawn for you down here. And we can see that as we move across the horizontal axis, we're never going to be able to move up to more than one y value or down depending on your position. Now, for this parabola. Once again, even though this isn't a straight line, if we move horizontally across the graph, we'll never encounter more than one vertical coordinate for a given horizontal coordinate. Y equals negative 5 is just a horizontal line. And we can see, once again, the same concept applying. Now, that you've had a definition of what a function is, let's look at some graphs of different equations and see if we can tell which of these are functions. So, remember that we defined a function as a relation between variables, where there's, at most, one output for a given input. And for all of these graphs, x is the input and y is the output. So, if we can't have more than one value of y for any given value of x, for any curve that represents a function, then which of these 6 graphs over here is not a function? And the answer is A, this vertical line right here. Since every single point along a vertical line has the same x-coordinate, but a different y-coordinate, this definitely doesn't fit the criterion for a function that we've put up. However, for every other curve or line on this graph, each horizontal position only has one corresponding vertical position. Even though, two of the graphs on here, F and D, don't represent equations that you've seen before, you can still tell, right off the bat, that both of these are functions. Even though you don't know anything else about them. Thinking about the conclusions we drew about these graphs in terms of which ones are functions and which one isn't, let's make a generalization about how we can tell graphically what is a function. So in other words, how can we test graphically that a given curve only has 1 y value for every x value? I'd like you to complete this sentence to create this guideline for us. So if we draw what kind of line on the same coordinate plane as any given function, the functions curve should intersect that line some number or fewer times. Now this is definitely a really tricky question, seriously. So if you have trouble with this that is 100% fine. This is going to give us a really useful tool. So take a second to consider the question. If you draw a vertical line on the same coordinate plan as a function, and the functions curve should only intersect that line 1 or fewer times. Let's pretend for a second that this pencil is a vertical line. Now saying that a functions curve should intersect this vertical line 1 or fewer times, is exactly the same as saying that each x value should have only 1 y value associated with it. Remember, just like line A over here, and like this pencil now any vertical line has an equation that can be written in the form, X equals some number. 4 in the case of line A right here. This means that every single point along this line will have the same x coordinate. It also means that if another curve intersects a vertical line at more than spot, and there's more than one point on that curve, that has the x coordinate of the vertical line. So even if we drew something like this. A little bit messy but you get the picture. This blue curve is not a function. Why is it not a function? Because if we move our pencil to, actually a tiny different positions along the x axis, this curve would cross to the pencil in more than one spot. That means that for a given input, a given x coordinate, you might either end up with one y coordinate, or a different y coordinate. So vertical lines and other functions that don't pass this test over here, don't work the same way that the candy machine does. If we had a candy machine that worked like this, for multiple values of amount of money you put in, you could end up with different amounts of candy. The rule that we just came up with in the last quiz for figuring out graphically whether or not a curve is a function is called the vertical line test. So remember, according to the vertical line test, we can tell that a curve is a function if there is no vertical line that we can draw anywhere on the coordinate plane that intersects that curve at more than one point. So, using your newfound understanding of the vertical line test, which of the five curves over here are functions? So, please check off as many as you think are, in fact, functions. The answer is that all of these curves over here are functions, except for curve D. That's this light blue one right here. And we can see, that right here between 0 and looks like about 4, if we put a vertical line in that region the curve that intersect that line at more than one point. That means there are certain inputs, or certain x values, on this curve for which there is more than one y value, so this is not a function. All the other ones are however, including another graph unlike anything you've seen, this graph E right here, this is just proof that there is always more to learn in math. So, now you've seen graphical depictions of functions. We've talked about real world examples of functions. And I think it's finally time to talk about what a function really is mathematically. So, overall what does a function do? Well, it takes some value as it's input, does some stuff to that value, and then produces a new number called the output. Then we can pair that input value with the output value that it produces to graph our functions. So, over here we have our x's and over here we have our y's, in general. So, for example, let's say I have a function whose function is to increase the input value by 2. So, for example, if our input is 2, so if you take 2 and throw it into our function machine, then the function machine will spit out an output of 4. So instead of 2, our input is 5. What will the output be from the same function? the manipulation letter function here performs on the input value, is to increase it by two. So if our input is five than our output is 7. Now, what if I want to be a little bit more general here? What would the output of this same function, the one that increases things by 2 be, if I give it an input of any number? Let's call that number or that variable, x. So if x is the input, what should the output be? Well, if I input some number x, I want my function to increase this by 2. Which would mean that the output would be x plus 2. We just said that if we want to make a general statement about what the output, based on a general input for this function we're talking about here, would be, if the input was x, then the output would have to be x plus 2. Since the function of our function is to increase all input values by 2. So, to illustrate this point a little bit differently, we're going to so some very, very basic computer programming. Now, don't worry if you've never done anything like this before. This is just to illustrate how simple function works. You'll never be tested on this or anything. This is just for you to explore and have fun and maybe even understand things a little better. Now what we're going to do is to use one particular programming language called Python, to create the same increase by 2 function that we just did. Now remember, that we said in a general case of wanting to increase by 2, we take an input of x and then have our output be x plus 2. It's the same thing as happening up here in these two lines of code. The letters def stand for define and they're saying that we're going to define or create a function, which is named IncreaseByTwo, and that function is going to take in some input, this letter x in this case as the general case. And that function is going to do some stuff and then spit out this output, x plus 2. So, these two lines of code are basically creating the machine that this function is. The machine that transforms whatever input value it gets into some output value. Now, please notice here that we do have parentheses here around the input value. This is absolutely nothing to do with multiplication. These parenthesis just indicate, this is what we are calling the input. Lets try it out. Lets see if this function works. Lets say that I want to use an input of 7 or plug in 7 in place of x in my IncreaseByTwo function. What number, do you think, this program is going to spit out in the end. Now again, you don't need to know anything about how programs actually work. All you need to do is think about the relationship between the input here and the output here. And see, then, what the output would be if 7 is the input. Please put your answer in this box over here. Well, I've typed this in and all I need to do is hit enter to find out what the answer is. And we get a value of 9. This makes perfect sense. You know that 7 plus 2 is 9. Now, we can try this with other values too. Let's play around. I could do increase by 2 of 25, let's say. That gives us 27. I could do increase by 2 of negative 17. This time let's make an interesting number like 0.9886. That gives us 2.9886. Awesome. So, hopefully this is giving you another way at how functions work. We have three clearly defined things involved in this program right here. We have the input. The function, which is processing this input. And then the output that the function spits out. So now you've seen what kind of function we write using Python to increase the value of any input number by 2. In other words to make the output value be 2 grater that the input value. Now maybe you can create your own function. Can you design a function that will take some sort of input and then of the output, be 3 lower than that. Let's see, a logical name for this function then would be, decrease by 3, and once again I'm going to call the input x. I'll type in the return for you. What I'd like you to do is to fill in what you think belongs right here. What general expression representing the output belongs here if our input is x and we want our function to decrease the input by 3. Well, if we want our function to decrease things by 3 then we should take our input x and subtract 3 form it. So our return value or our output should be x minus 3. Let's play around. If I say, I want to figure out decrease by 3 And have the input be, four, then sure enough I get one. Let's do a couple more. We can see that in both of these cases, the number that is output is 3 lower than the number that is input. Which is exactly what we wanted to have happen. We just saw that in computer science, you might write a function like this. First we name the function, in this case we named our function decrease by 3. Then we create a spot for the input, which we call x and put it in parentheses, and then we define what the output is going to be with this return statement. And then we write the output right here, x minus 3. But as you've probably come to realize over the course of this class, some people who do math a lot are a little bit lazier, like me. For one thing, in math, the name of the function is not usually nearly as inventive as it is in computer science. We can see that a programmer would call a function something like this, decrease by three, that really describes what the function's doing. In math though, our names for functions are really simple. In fact, the most common one is probably just the letter f. What programmers and mathematicians do in common however, is that they still use the parentheses around what's going to be the input for the function. And of course, x does seem like a pretty great input. Now the programmer has a return statement, that represents what the output of this function's going to be, only around the program. But in math, we just create an equation. So if we want to create the decrease by three equation in math instead, we just write f of x equals x minus 3. The output is just that expression that we've often seen written to describe the deep ended variable, showing how it depends on the independent variable. Now the way that we read the left hand side of this equation right here is we say f of x. Now again, just like in programming, the parentheses here around the input do not mean multiplication. So the output of the function, the thing that's just equal to x minus 3, is this f of x over here. And remember we used to say that the output was y, if the input was x. So, what we're really doing in functions is replacing the independent variable, y, with this new way of writing it, f of x. I think you'll see over time why this is a useful way of writing it. But it doesn't make the original way we learned any less valid. They're just different ways of expressing pretty similar things, assuming that this is a function. Now that you've seen how both computer science and mathematics would represent the same function in different ways, I'd like you to translate the first function that we talked about from Python into its mathematical form. So this is the function that we initially called Increase By Two. I'd like the input to be x, and the output to be x plus two. I'd also like you to name the function f. So just like we did up here, write the mathematical form of the function down in this red box. This time, our function is f of x equals x plus 2. So you can see that the input is still x and the output is still x plus 2. The only thing that's different is that we've chosen, once again, a super simple name for our function. Just the letter f. So, now that we've seen a couple of different functions, let's talk about how to actually use them. When we had a computer program, we saw that we would take our function, type the name out, and then in the parentheses, where we know that the input goes, we could type a specific number like 4 for example, like we did before. And then because the function was already defined in the program, when we ran this, with an actual number as the input, it would give us an answer. It would spit out in this case a 1. We can do a similar thing with the mathematical version of this function. Once again, in the slot where the input goes. Inside the parenthesis right here, we can write a number. Let's pick a different one this time just to spice things up a little bit. Maybe 5. Now the way that we use this new input of 5, is we substitute it in to all the places where we see x in the expression on the right hand side over here. So, in fact the first term you see is an x, so we replace that with the 5. And then the rest of the expression is the same. We started off with f of x equals x minus 3 and that means we know that f of 5 is equal to 5 minus 3. We can evaluate this to see that f of 5 is equal to 2. So 5 here is our input, and when plugged in to this function, the function relates the input of 5 to an output, which in this case is 2. This in fact creates a point for us. We can now plot the point 5 comma 2. This is a point that lies on this line. Since we know that we're just replacing our dependent variable with f of x instead of y, we graph all the values of f of x of the function of the output just as we would y values on the vertical axis. So, what if I have a different function instead? Maybe f of x equals x squared. What if I want to plug in 4 as the input for this equation? What would the function give me as the output then? Please simplify your answer as much as possible, so that it's just a single number. As before, we're just going to substitute four in for x in the original function. So we're going to end up with 4 squared with is just equal to 16. So our input of four spits out an output of 16. And once again this creates a point for us that we can plot a 4 comma 16. This lies on the graph of f of x equals x squared. Which incidentally is a problem you know very well. So the way that the graphs of these functions look hasn't changed at all. From when we used to write them with y's instead of f of x. So the graph of y equals x squared is exactly the same as the graph of f of x equals x squared. Writing with this notation just underscores the fact that this is a function. This has that special property of having only one y value for every x value that we can plug in. And it also shows that the vertical values on this graph are dependent, upon the horizontal values. I've given you several functions written out here. And for each of these functions, I'd like you to identify the name of the function, the input of the function, and the output of the function, in terms of the input value. So I've already filled in how you would do this for this first function. Which we would read as h of t, equals negative 9.8t squared. So here you can see that the name of the function is h, the input is t, and the output is this expression over here. Now you have 9.8t squared. So please fill in all of these boxes for the other 2 functions. Now you've seen that mathematicians like to name functions simple things, like the letter f. And we've also seen that the input of a function is some sort of independent variable, and we've seen that x can be that variable. But we don't have to use these names, f and x, for these functions and independent variables. We can actually use pretty much anything we want to use. Remember, variables are just placeholders for things that have different meanings in different real world situations. What if instead of f of x, we have g of u? In this case, what is the name of the function? And what is the independent variable that's being used in that function? The function name is g. This letter out here. And the independent variable is u. The letter found inside of the parenthesis. So now, that we've got an idea of how to use function notation in the context of equations, how do we actually use it? Well, it gives us a sort of short hand, as we saw in a couple of quizzes before. For instance, if someone walks up to me and asks me, what is the value of x squared minus x plus 2, when x is equal to 2? Well, function notation comes in super handy here. If we recognize that x squared minus x plus 2 is a function where x is the independent variable, the same thing is asking, if f of x equals x squared minus x plus 2, then what is f of 2? So actually, just because I know you want to solve this problem, what is f of 2? Please fill your answer into this box. All we have to do, as we saw in the simpler examples before, is take the original function, and then, substitute 2 in a spot of every x. So we get f of 2 is equal to 2 squared minus 2 plus 2. Which is just equal to 4. Although so far we've only substituted in numbers in place of our independent variables, we can really substitute in pretty much anything we want. Now, you know that my favorite letter in the entire world is m. So, I'd like you this time to set x equal to m, and use that in our function. What is f of m? Once again, we substitute m in place of x. And we end up with this expression, m squared minus m plus 2. We can't simplify this any further, since none of these are like terms. So, this is our final answer. We just substituted in x equals m, but, what if instead, we have x equals negative m? What is f of negative m? Please write your final answer. Simplify it as much as you can in this box. So each x that we see we want to substitute negative m directly into that spot. Since we know that the entire quantity x is squared, we need to make sure that the entire quantity negative m is squared. So I put parentheses around it to indicate this. The same thing is true with subtracting here. You have minus negative m and then plus 2. So let's simplify this, negative m squared turns out to be just m squared. Since the negative signs will multiply with one another and turn in to a positive sign. Minus negative m is the same as plus m and then we have plus 2 at the end. Great! Now, I think this is a really difficult concept, so fair warning, this might be confusing. If you're totally good on this, awesome, move forward. If not, you might want to spend a little bit of extra time trying to understand this concept. Since we said that we can substitute really whatever we want in the place of x, I can actually substitute in a different expression that involves an x. So here we have a function defined with x as the independent variable. And in the place of a independent variable I can plug in x squared for example. Remember that these variables are really just place holders for us to plug in, other numbers that we know that they can equal. And if we decide that we want to plug in x squared, we are totally entitled to do that. So, how would you write out, in simplest terms, what f of x squared is? And yes, please remember to simplify as much as you can. As before we need to make sure we apply whatever operation is acting on x to the entire quantity x squared. So I start by putting that in parentheses and then raising the x squared to the 2nd power again. Then we subtract x squared and then we keep that added 2. This gives us a final answer of x to the 4th minus x squared plus 2. So you've seen functions written in the form f of x or g of u, or any other number of things like this, h of y, so on and so forth. You can pick any letter you want for the function name, and pretty much any letter you want for the independent variable name too, as long as you're consistent. So taking all of that into account, what do you think this means? F of u comma v. Does this represent two separate functions? Two outputs for one input? A function with two independent variables? Or a function with two dependent variables? This represents a function with two independent variables, u and v. And this is probably a little bit hard to grasp, so I'll give you an example in just a second. We just talked about variables written in the form like this, f of u comma v. So, we have two independent variables and one dependent variable. An example of a situation like this in real life is finding the area of a rectangle. Note that the rectangle area is going to depend both on the length of the rectangle and the width of the rectangle. So, if we choose to call the length, l, and we choose to call the width, w, and we choose to name the function A, how can we express the area of a rectangle as a function of length and width? Please write this in form f of u comma v. We can express the area of a rectangle as a function of length and width by writing it as A of l comma w. And we know that this would equal l times w, since we find area by multiplying length by width. Athena started interning at an architecture firm, to learn the basics of designing and planning for the construction of new buildings. This isn't just any architecture firm, though. It just so happens to be the firm that designed the new office for Grant's gleaming glasses company. So we're going to go back in time to follow Athena through the work that went into creating Grant's awesome new space. Since Athena is just getting used to being a part of the world of architecture at all, the firm gave her a pretty simple project to work on first. Since Grant's such a fun guy, he wanted his office to have a separate space, just for having fun. Thus, the fun room, which Athena get's to plan. Grant has picked out a very special wallpaper that he wants used in this room. And has a pattern that he wants to make sure is fully expressed on every wall, but he also wants there to be natural light in the room. So he wants windows along two of the walls. However, since he's not willing to sacrifice any of that wallpaper pattern, the two walls with the windows on them are going to have to be longer than the other two walls. Let's call the distance from one wall to the edge of a window x. And assume that each of these windows are placed in the center of either wall. So that there's a distance of x on either side. Now, since Grant loves natural light so much, he wants these windows to be really big. In fact, he's already picked out, surprise, surprise, the exact windows that he wants. And they are each 3 meters across. Now, since we're calling each of these lengths of wall x, we know that this length of wall is going to be equal to the sum of those two. So this is just 2x. Now, the thing that Athena needs to figure out is how much carpet is going to need to be laid down in the fun room. So considering these side links and your understanding of, area of rectangles, please come up with an expression for the number of square meters of carpet Athena's going to need for this room. You could either multiply or not multiply out your answer. We saw at the end of the last lesson that we could come up with a function for the area of a rectangle by saying that A of l,w equals lw. The product of the length and width of any rectangle. Well, in our case, l and w are going to be represented by a different variable, actually. They're both written already in terms of x. I'm going to call this the length and this width. So in our case the length is actually just x plus x, or 2x plus 3. Remember that the m here stands for meters, not a variable. And the width is just 2x. If we want to apply this out we get 4x squared plus 6x squared meters. So instead of writing the area as a function of length and width, instead we're writing it as a function of x now. It's function that only involves only one variable since we had both of these original variables in terms of the same third variable. Now that Athena has a way of expressing area as a function of x or this half link of the width of the room. She has to start thinking about different values of x to actually come up with a number that this area is equal to. So as a review from last lesson, let's practice plugging in a few different values of x and see what the area of the Fun Room would be. Please fill in the proper values for the output of the function in these green boxes. A of 6 is 180 meters squared. A of 1 half is 4 meters squared. A of 0 is 0 meters squared. And A of negative 3 is 18 meters squared. Just to be clear, you only needed to fill in the numbers, not the meters squared units. Now that we have four possible areas for the Fun Room, I'd like you to consider which of these actually make sense in the context of the situation we're talking about. You can always reference the parent function up here, a of x equals 4x squared plus 6x, to remind yourself of what the independent variable stands for in this situation and with the dependent variable is. So, consider both the input and the output in each of these four cases. And please check off which choices that you think do not make sense in the context of Athena's story. It doesn't seem to make much sense to have a room that is 0 square meters in area. So I'm going to say that A of 0 equals 0 does not make sense in the context of this story. We know that Grant definitely wants a room to exist. His employees want to have a lot of fun. We need actual space to do that in, 0 just doesn't really make sense. We also have A of negative 3 equals 18 meters squared. In this first one that we marked off, neither the input nor the output really makes sense. But in the second choice, it's a little bit trickier because the output seems totally fine. Grant could conceivably have a room that was 18 meters squared in area. However, since x is a length, it doesn't really make sense to plug in negative 3 for it's value. What kind of ruler could you use to measure a negative length? So this trace doesn't really make sense either. The last quiz then, brought up the subject of what values x can take on in this situation in order for it to make sense. So think about what constraints an architect would logically place on this variable x in this situation. And then write out the possible values that we could plug in for x here using an inequality notation in this box. All I really know is that x needs to be greater than 0. Since as we discussed earlier, negative lengths don't really make sense when we're measuring walls. And having a side length of 0 also doesn't make sense. X really does need to be a positive value in order for Athena's project to go anywhere. We just decided that for this situation, we need to have x being greater than 0. But what if I told you that this restriction on x had a special name? In fact, it does. In this case, x is greater than 0 is called the domain of the function A of x. So, if this is the case, then what do you think we can say in general about domain? Is the domain of a function the set of all possible inputs? The set of all possible outputs? The set of all possible values at the independant variable? Or the set of possible values of the dependent variable? As we said before, the reason we need to restrict what x is allowed to equal is because certain values of x aren't going to make sense in our situation. So the domain here is the set of values that are possible inputs of a of x. So the first choice is correct. We can also think of this, however, as the set of possible values of the independent variable. Since the independent variable and input are the same thing. When Athena talks about the possible area's of the fun room to other people at the architecture firm, she's probably not going to want to talk about any values of x that aren't allowed. She'll really only want to focus on the ones that are in the domain. In the set of allowed possible values for x or inputs. As we said earlier, the domain of this function is x is greater than 0, because of the restrictions placed upon it by the real life situation it's representing. As we've learned throughout the class, one of the best ways to visualize most things in math is through graphing, and domain is no exception. Looking at what I have plotted here, we can see that the only points on our graph have x coordinates that lie within this domain. It's a little bit hard to see here, but rather than having a filled in circle at the point 0,0 there's actually a tiny little open circle, just like we saw in number lines before. The fact that there's an open circle at this end point is just showing that this end point is not included in the domain. If instead we've had x is greater than or equal to 0, this would be a filled in circle, but we don't. And of course we could also write our domain in interval notation. X lies in the range 0 to infinity not including either end point. First thing's first, we noticed that both endpoints that we have are filled in. So I'm going to need to use square brackets for my intervals to show the inclusion of these points. Now, the point furthest to the left, in other words the smallest x value that we have on this graph, is negative 4. So that's the lowest value of the domain for which the function has a value. Now, moving as far right as we can along our curve. We come to this point, whose x coordinate is 6. So our interval goes from negative 4 to 6, including both endpoints. We can check to make sure that our interval is right by testing a point outside of the interval and seeing if the function has a value at that x coordinate. So let's say, I pick negative 8. That's right here and there is no function drawn right here. I can't tell you what the function would equal. If you asked me what the value of the function was at negative 8, I could not give you any sort of reasonable answer. The function is just not defined for the input. In fact it's not defined for any input other than the x values of all the points here. We can also have functions where the n points are not included. For example, in this graph you can see that there's circles at either end point. Open circles other than closed circles, showing that neither of the end points are included in our domain. So in this case how would you write the domain using interval notation? Our domain goes from 4 to 7, not including either 4 or 7. In other words, x can take on any value between 4 and 7. Remember, when we're looking for a domain on our graph, the only thing we're considering is x coordinates, for which there is a point on the function. The y values here don't matter at all. So for a given function, we've learned that the domain of that function, is the set of all allowable inputs, the set of all of the values of the independent variable that we can plug into our function to come up with a value. But if we were to talk about the allowable input so much, it's also probably important for us to learn about the possible outputs, the values that the function can equal. The set of all possible outputs of a function is called its range. And how might you find the range? Well, we can figure out what the range is by plugging in all the different values of the independent variable that are in the domain. Once we've covered all of those, we will have covered all of the values in the range. So, the domain then is associated with the independent variable, like x in this case and in many other cases. And the range is associated with dependent variables like f of x. For each of these different variables, the domain and the range basically state what values the corresponding variables can take on. So, considering this definition of the range, what do you think the range of this function is? Remember, this is just the set of all the different values for the function, all the different vertical coordinates expand in this graph itself. On our graph, the y values range from on the lower end negative 1 to on the upper hand positive 6. However, we know that neither negative 1 nor 6 is included in our range, because the points that these values come from have those open circles on them. I'd like us to look at one more entirely new function. And for this green curve, please tell me what the domain is and what the range is. Put both of your answers in interval notation. And be sure then that you keep track of whether or not either end is closed or open. Let's start off with the domain. Our lowest x coordinate of any point on the green curve is over here at negative 8. And we can see that this dot is filled in, so we need an inclusive bracket there. The highest in x that we'd move is over here but we have an open circle at x equals 9. Since we write a 9, but we write an open bracket to show that 9 is not included. So, now for the range. Let's look at the graph from this direction, then. The smallest value for f of x for any of the given inputs that are possible, in this function is -3, and that point is not included because of the open circle. The highest value for y is at y equals 9. So our range, then, goes from -3 to 9, not including negative 3, but including 9. Now, that we're more familiar with the concept of domain, let's look a little bit more closely at this graph. Our initial function for the area of Grant's fun room as a function of half of its width was A of x equals 4x squared plus 6x. And we said that our domain is x is greater than 0. Now, what do you think then the range values will be? We'll write this in inequality notation as well. And I've already written in A of x for you, so all you need to fill in, in this box is some sort of inequality sign and a number. Interestingly enough, in this case the range is also just values that are greater than 0. Since the endpoint that we are starting from is this open circle at the origin. And that all of the points lie to the right and above this point. No value of a of x is ever going to drop below the x axis. We also have to know about the overall shape of the entire function, a of x, without the domain restriction. So if you're looking at this in an idealist environment. Maybe it would help us out to look at this entire function without the domain restriction or the range restriction for just a second. So here's the same function as the function that we had for calculating the area of Grant's fun room, except I've removed the domain restriction, and therefore also removed the range restriction. So the first question I have for you about this entire graph is, what is the domain of f of x? Please write your answer interval notation. The domain of f of x equals 4x squared plus 6x is negative infinity to infinity. In other words, we can plug in any real number, literally any real number, in place of x, in this function, and we'll get a valid value for f of x. Another way we could express this interval is to say that the domain of f of x is all the real numbers. Remember that whenever we write an infinity sign, whether it negative or positive, we need to have an open parenthesis. Well, now that we know one thing that the range of f of x is not, it's not all the real numbers, I'd like to know what it actually is. Please, in integral notation, write the range of f of x right here. Remember the coordinates of the vertex that I told you? So, it is the range then if it is not all the real numbers. Well, we know that the minimum point the lowest value that's a member of the range is negative 2.25 and because the graph actually passes through that point and includes it you need a square bracket. Following the graph in either direction though,we can tell that the values of f of x are just going to continue to increase as the values of x increase. And the same thing will happen in the other direction as well, as x values decrease, n of x values increase. This increasing is never going to stop, so the other n point of the range is infinity, with that open parenthesis. We know that the vertex is a special point on a parabola. Because if you remember, there's a line of symmetry that runs right through the center of the vertex, and divides the parabola in 2. We saw that tangent lines on opposite sides of the parabola at the same vertical position have opposite slopes. In other words, if we folded this parabola in half, down this side of the line, the two halves this is divided in two right now, would match one and other perfectly. Let's see if we can make any other general statements about the behavior of the function on this side of the graph versus on this side the graph. For a moment, let's just look at this right half. The corner for the vertex as I showed you in the last problem were negative 0.75 and negative 2.25. So for now we're just going to only consider the domain in the region where x is greater than negative 0.75. As you can tell on the right side of the graph, as x gets bigger, f of x gets bigger as well. So I'd like you to complete this sentence property. On the interval of the domain negative 0.75 to infinity, so in other words, this half of the graph we've been talking about. What is happening to the value of the function? Is f of x increasing, decreasing, or constant? So remember that we read graphs from left to right, so this is asking, what is happening to the behavior of f of x, of the value of the function, the dependent variable, as the independent variable x, increases? F of x is increasing in this interval. In other words, as x gets bigger as we plug in bigger and bigger numbers, into f of x, f of x itself gets larger, since this expression continues to increase. Now, let's look at that other half of the graph, the part of the graph that's to the left of this line of symmetry, the axis of the problem. In this interval, which goes from negative infinity to negative 0.75, not including either endpoint. What can you say about the behavior of f of x? Again, we're going to read the graph from left to right. So, I'm asking you, as x values increase, what happens to the value of f of x? Does it increase, does it decrease or does it stay constant? On this interval of the domain, f of x is actually decreasing. So as you move from one x value to the right, increase in the value of x, the curve here is dropping. The y values or rather the f of x values are decreasing as x values are increasing. So whenever a function is going down or has a negative slope we say that it is decreasing on that interval of the domain. So, to summarize what we can say about function behavior, or at least this aspect of it. If the value of the function goes down as the value of x goes up, then we say that the function is decreasing. Just like over here where it's sloping down. Now if instead f of x increases as x increases, then we say that the function is increasing. Like in this part of the graph. The third option is that f of x doesn't change at all as x increases. Here, f of x is a constant. So here I've drawn another sort of silly looking graph, and I'm going to divide it into several regions. So for each of the regions of the domain that I've split up right here on the left, I'd like you to tell me if in that range in the domain, the function, which is g of x in this case, is increasing, decreasing, or a constant? Please pick one of these 3 values for each part of the domain. So, here are the answers. In this first part of the graph, we're moving down as x goes up, so the graph is decreasing. Then f of x starts to increase again as we continue to move to the right, so this must be increasing. Then the value of g of x doesn't change at all as we go here, so it must be constant. Moving up again means we're increasing. And then lastly moving down means decreasing. So, we talked about domain, we've talked about range, we've talked about how we can impose domain restrictions on functions, depending on the situations in the real world that they're involved in, and we've talked about overall function behavior. However, I still want to dig deeper. Let's take a look at this function, g of x equals the square root of x. Now remember, that we just have a radical sign and no sign in front of it, it's implied that this is the positive square root, this is not a plus or minus thing. Let's take a look at the graph of this function. So, here's our graph of g of x equals the square root of x. Now, I could describe its behavior by saying that it's increasing from 0 to infinity. But let's think back to the domain. So, what do you think the domain of g of x is? All numbers between what and what? Well, the entire curve sits in this part of the graph, starting at the y-axis and moving to the right. So, that means the smallest x value we have on this curve is 0. And then it's going to continue to increase with corresponding values of the function for every value of x that gets higher and higher and higher. So that means, that domain is going to increase forever in this direction, and the domain of g of x, must me all number between 0 and infinity. Let's think for a second about why the domain for this function, the square root function, is not all the real numbers. Now you've heard a few lessons ago, about how imaginary numbers allow us to take square roots of negative numbers but, and this is super, super, super important If we only care about real solutions, then taking the square root of some complex number is undefined. We want to be able to graph whatever input and output values we get from our function. And if we have numbers with imaginary components, we can't graph them on this kind of graph. So knowing what you know about square roots, and focusing only on real solutions for g of x. What is the correct domain for the function g of x? The second one is correct the only difference between the two choices is that 0 is not included in the first interval and is included in the second one. If we plug 0 in for x we get g of 0 equals to square root of 0 which is just 0, so the point zero, zero is included on our graph which we can see right here. Let's switch things up a little bit. So over here, I still have graphed the equation g of x equals the root of x. But I want us to ignore the graph for a second, or just use it as a general guideline. And instead look at this new function, h of x equals the square root of the quantity x minus 5. Now, what is the domain of h of x this time? Please write your answers as an inequality here instead of an interval notation. We know that whatever is under the square root side has to be greater than or equal to 0. Because otherwise we'll be taking the square root of a negative number and we don't want non-real solutions in this case. So finding the domain of a square root of x minus 5 is solving an inequality. You have to set x minus 5 greater than or equal to 0. This gives us x is greater than or equal to 5 and [foreign] that's our new domain restriction. So, so far, we've seen two different types of domain restrictions. Some of them are motivated by common sense, problem solving and real world quantities. So for example as we saw earlier, Athena needs to design Grant's fun room so that the dimensions are greater than zero. The other type is domain restrictions that are motivated by math. So restrictions that we need to impose in order to get only real or properly defined solutions. So an example of this would be avoiding taking square roots of negative numbers. Before we jump into a bunch more practice problems, let's look at one more instance of a domain that is restricted because of what make sense. Just like Athena couldn't make a room with negative dimensions. Let's look at this function, A of r that describes the area of a circle with radius r. We have the function A of r equals pi times r squared, so if this is our circle that we're considering, the radius is this length, from the center of the circle out to its edge. What I'd like to know is what the domain for this function is. Is it all the real numbers, r is greater than equal to 0, r is less than 0, or r is not equal to pi? r needs to be greater than or equal to 0. Once again, we're measuring a distance, a length and it can't be negative. So the way we'd write this to remain in interval notation, would be square bracket 0, infinity open bracket. So we talked a lot about domain and range in this lesson so far, but I want to give you a slightly different perspective on how to visualize them, and how to think about values of the domain through the relation of a function mapping to values in the range. So lets say we have some function f and for three to our values a, b and c, constants not exactly sure what they are, we get outputs of one, four, and five. We know that if we graph this, we would pair the coordinates a and 1, b and 4, and c and 5. And what the function is really doing is taking this input value, playing with it somehow, and spitting out this output. So you could visualize this by writing out values of the domain over here, and then showing that via the function, they get paired with these values in the range. Let's say actually that for this particular function f, a, b and c are the only values in the domain. So if the entire domain of this function is just the set a, b, c, what values are in the range? Please separate any values that are in the range by commas. The domain, in this case a, b, and c, contains all the values that we can input into the function and get defined output values. Those defined output values are the range. So, the range only contains elements that we get from taking elements of the domain and mapping them over using the function. So, the next function takes in the value a, it processes it, and spits out 1. So, a gets mapped over to a value of 1 in the range. That's one of our numbers. B similarly gets matched to 4, and c gets matched to 5. Since none of the elements in the domain map to either 2 or 3, those two numbers aren't in our range. I just listed them here, so that we had, a collection of numbers to go off of and have some contrast. Now, once again I've laid out a function for you, in the same format as before. We have one oval that contains some possible values of x, and another oval that contains some possible values of f of x, and some values of x mapping to other values of f of x. So, using this diagram, I'd like you to tell me what the domain of this function is, and what the range is. And as before, if you have multiple answers in either box, please separate them by commas. The domain is only going to contain values of x for which the function is defined. Let's start off with the domain. The domain is just the set of inputs over here, for which the function is defined. So, the only ones that actually map two values over in the f of x oval are 1, 2, and 4. So, those values together are the set that is our domain. Since 3 and 5 aren't actually paired with anything, over here in f of x. In other words, if you plug these inputs into the function, you won't get a output, they are not part of our domain. Now, our range it's a set of values that the domain values map to. So that's going to be 20 from the 1, the 2 maps to 80, and then 4 maps to 80 as well. But since 80 is already in the set, we don't repeat it. Now remember, this does still count as a function even though there's a shared value in the range between two values in the domain. So we just spent a lot of time talking about domain, range, and all sorts of functions. I'd like to do a sort of review quiz over what a function really is conceptually. We've talked about this in a lot of different contexts. Solving this would be a good way to bridge the many different things that you're learned about functions. So which of these choices correctly describe functions? You can check off as many as you like. Does a function map each element of the domain to at least one element of the range? Does it map each element of the domain to exactly one element of the range? Does it relate a set of inputs to a set of outputs? Does it have to have a defined value for any real number that we want to use as input? And is a function the same as any equation with two variables? So, actually only two of these are true. A function maps each element of its domain to exactly one element of its range. And a function also can be seen as a relation between a set of inputs and a set of outputs. However, none of the other three choices are true. Let's look at the first one. If we had checked this one off, we will be arguing that a function maps each element of the domain to at least one element of the range. Now, think back to that soda machine example. The soda machine operated like the function, because for any amount of money you put in, there's only one option for the amount of soda that you could get out. Functions work like beautiful machines in the same way. They're deterministic. A single input can only lead to one single output. So, the second one must be right instead of the first one. Now, we know that this last choice isn't true. Because there are some equations with two variables that aren't functions and we haven't delved super deep into this. But you already know that there has to be a special relationship between those two variables, namely, this one. That the independent variable can only map to one value of the dependent variable, and not all equations with two variables do that. For example, we might have x equals y squared, which is a horizontal parabola. Or we might have x squared plus y squared equals 4, which gives us a circle. Neither of these passed the vertical line test, which we talked about before, so they're not functions. And they don't pass the vertical line test because they don't meet this criteria. And finally, if we said that functions must have a defined value for any real numbers input, then we would be saying that the domain of every single function has to be all the real numbers and that's just not the case. We talked about two different major types of domain restrictions that prevent certain real numbers from being within the domains of certain functions. We'll talk about even more of these cases later on. You just have to wait a couple of weeks for some really, really exciting stuff. I know the past couple of lessons have required a pretty major paradigm shift in terms of the way that we think about the relationship of variables to one another, and what equations really are. But I hope that you've found our work with functions interesting, and I think that it will prove more and more helpful as we continue to use the function paradigm in our problem solving especially in our setting up of equations. Great job. So Athena's been building a lot of models in her architecture class so that she can depict buildings. And she figured out one really easy way to build a rectangular building. All you do is you take a rectangular sheet of paper, and you just cut a square out of each corner. So you cut a square out of all four corners, and make each square the same size. So let's try it out and see what happens. [SOUND] Voila, four squares drawn Okay, great, so now we have a rectangle without any corners. Now all I have to do is fold up the different flaps. And look, we have a box. If you want to make it a permenent box, we can always tape each corner together. And look at that, we have a building. Now, this may look pretty simple right now, but If you think about it, we've only dealt with area in this class so far, and that's really all that Athena's talked about in her architecture classes so far too. But being able to make a box or a building, or whatever you want to call this, is really powerful. This is a three dimensional object. Means it has space that it occupies, and I can do stuff with it like[NOISE] Fill it with M&amp;Ms. [SOUND] So this could be a model building or it can hold stuff. It can hold M&amp;Ms, it can hold my tape,[SOUND] I can do whatever I want with it because this shape takes up volume. It doesn't just have area, it has a volume. So this is a totally new concept for art class and also a new concept for Athena. It's going to be super important as she continues to study architecture. So having one box that we've made, or one model building that we've made is great, but I chose a certain size that I wanted these squares to be. So I'm wondering what's going to happen if I choose a different sized square. Let's see. Maybe to start out my experiment, I'll make a rectangle that has little tiny, tiny, tiny squares cut out of the corners. [BLANK_AUDIO]. So now that I have my tiny squares cut out, I'm going to cut out some really big ones. Actually, I'm going to consider, first of all, this box as our medium-sized corner box. And for comparison, I'm just going to take that tape off of it. [BLANK_AUDIO] . So medium one is back. Now for the really big one, or rather the really big corners. [BLANK_AUDIO]. So now, we have three very different looking rectangles with the corners cut out of them. And the question I have for you and something that Athena's wondering is which one of these has the biggest volume when it's folded into a box? Or in other words, which one's going to hold the most M&amp;M's? Clearly we want the box that's going to hold the most M &amp; M's. So pick between these three boxes. So it turns out that this middle sheet of paper is going to make the box with the biggest volume. But in order to really visualize that you have to put the boxes together. So let's start out by doing that. Okay, so now we have three boxes and I think it's time to make use of our M&amp;Ms now. [NOISE][SOUND] Okay, so I've filled each of these boxes with M&amp;Ms as best I can. Unfortunately, I ran out over here, probably because I ate some of them. But I think we can already tell, just by looking at the dimensions of this, little skinny box. That its volume is definitely less than the other two boxes. It's so flat, it can't possibly be the biggest. So now that we're left with two choices. Now I could go through and count every single M&amp;M in this box and every single M&amp;M in this box. But, I'm kind of lazy and that would take a really long time. So, I will tell you that when I filled these M&amp;Ms it took me several more handfuls of M&amp;Ms to fill this box than to fill this box. So that means that its pretty good guess that this one has more volume. However as with many things you see in this course I think we're going to need to do some math to find a more rigorous way of analyzing the volume of any kind of box that we could make out of a piece of paper. So what did we learn from the last quiz? Well we've seen that volume of our box changes depending on how big the square that we cut out of each corner was. So that means that volume in this case is a function of square size. That's pretty cool. Now for Athena, we're going to have a little project. I want us to figure out how to maximize the volume of a box that we can make out of a sheet of paper this size. The same size we've been using which is 5 inches long by 7 inches wide. But in order to do that we're going to have to start by learning a little bit more about volume. Volume. So, what really is volume? It's a word we hear all the time, but in math it has a special meaning. Just as we think about it in everyday life, volume is a measure of space, 3D space to be precise. So let's say I have a balloon, like this one right here. It's not inflated right now, it's pretty flat, not actually just two dimensional, but there's no air inside of it right now. To puff it up. So right now it's not really taking up very much space. However when you inflate a balloon, you increase its volume because it takes up more space. The volume of a balloon is hard to calculate mathematically. The volume of a box Is pretty easy though. Let's take this box, for instance. We can say that there are 3 different lengths that we can talk about with this box. If I tilt it a little bit, you can see its height, this length right here. You can also see the width, which I'm going to call this dimension, and we can look at the length too, right here. Since this is kind of bulky to work with right now. I'm wanting to draw my own rendition on the tablet. So here is my very fancy drawing of a box. You can see I've labeled the length, the width, and the height of the box, the three different measurements that we can take of it with a ruler. Now for a box, the equation to find the volume is quite simple. The volume is just equal to the length times the width times the height. In fact, I'm going to go ahead and label these sides with these abbreviations. So here we go, one side length of l, one of w, and one of h. So, let's say we have a box the height of 5 centimetres, a length of 10 centimeters and a width of 8 centimetres. Then what is its volume meassured in cubic metres? Well we know that the formula for calculating the volume of a rectangular prism or a box like this, is just to multiply the length, the width, and height together. So all we need to do is plug in the values that we know for each of those quantities. So we'll have 10 centimeters times 8 centimeters times 5 centimeters, and that gives us a final answer of 400 centimeters cubed. Or, in other words, 400 cubic centimeters. Okay, so we know how to calculate the volume of a box if we know the length, the width and the height of the box. So let's take another look at how Athena was folding her boxes. She'd take a piece of paper like this one. Then she would measure a square in each corner of her rectangular piece of paper. Then she cut the squares out of the corners. And then she would fold up the edges. And tada, with a little bit tape we'd have a pretty nicely put together box. So we know then we can make box out of a piece of paper that looks like this. It once was a rectangle until I cut the squares out of the corners. Let's draw that on here. So here is a nice little piece of paper for us to start out with. And then I can draw this to show what it would look like after the corners have been cut out of it. Awesome. Now, on the real piece of paper that I was using, this one, the original side length of this long side was seven inches. And the original side length of the shorter side was five inches. So let's pretend like this paper has the same dimensions. So the orginal side length was five inches. And this original side length down here was seven inches. Now, Athena and I are both super careful people, so we made sure that the squares that I cut out of each corner are exactly the same size. That means that each of these lengths of a cutout square is the same. Let's call that length x. Now, I'm going to give you a second to refresh your memory on how this box looks when we fold up the sides. So here's my real one again. This length is x. This is seven inches and this is five inches. When I fold it up, it looks like this. We have length, width, and height. Now, my question for you is, once I fold up this box, what will the height of the box be? Please put your answer in this box. And just a hint, it may not just be a number. When we fold up my real box over here the length that becomes the height is this shortest length, which is the side length of each of the squares that I cut out. That's just x over here. So the height of the box is going to be x inches. So, since this is going to be the height of the box, h or the height, is just equal to x. Remember that we were calling this longest side the length of the box. Can you tell me then, in terms of this initial length of seven inches, and in terms of this cut size x, what will the length of the box be once it's folded up? The length of the box, since it's folded up, would be 7 minus 2x inches. Since the initial length is 7 inches, and then from each corner, we take out x, we're taking 7 minus x minus x, which is just equal to 7 minus 2x. So, that means our new l for the box is just 7 minus 2x. And lastly, we can figure out w, the width of the box, the last dimension that we want to look for. Originally, the width was 5 inches. So, what's the new width going to be once the box is folded up? We started out with five inches. And just like we did with the length, we just subtract x from each side. So, we're going to have 5 minus 2x inches. Then we have w equals 5 minus 2x. Cool, we have all of our dimensions covered. Now that we have all three of our dimensions in terms of x in these original constants, we're ready to calculate the volume of this box. So what will the volume of Athena's box be as a function of x. Please fill in that expression over here. All we need to do here is starting with this equation for the general volume of a box, substitute in each of these expressions for the height, length and width. So we end up with v of x equals the quantity 7 minus 2x, times the quantity 5 minus 2x times x. Now of course you could multiply this out as well. And if you go through the whole task of multiplying everything out, we end up with 4x cubed minus 24x squared plus 35x. Either way though, is a totally fine form. In fact, I almost prefer this factored version. So, Athena has this equation now to describe the volume of one of her boxes. Let's make sure that know what this function does. Can you fill in the blanks in this sentence? This function takes blank as input and gives bank as output. In either box, I'd like you to put one of the letters a, b, c, or d corresponding to which of those phrases you thing belongs in either spot here. Option a goes in the first blank and option b goes in the second blank. That means that this sentence reads, this function takes the length of one cut, in other words x here, as input, and gives the volume of the box as the output. We can actually see that from the way that our equation is written. We have x here, as the input, inside the parenthesis, next to the function name. And, the name of the function is V. And the function itself represents the volume of the box. So, that is the output. So, for example, what would the volume of the box be if these cut lengths, the distance x in our diagram, were 1 inch long? Well, since we know that the cut size, x, is the input for our function, we will just calculate v of 1. And plug in 1 in the spot of x. After some simplification, we would see that the volume of the box, measured in inches cubed, would be 15. That's pretty interesting, but one piece of information isn't enough to figure out what the best cut size is. And remember, Athena wants to maximize the volume of her box. So let's try a few different values. So, I've already filled in the volume of the box that would result if the cut size was 1 inch. And I'd like you to fill in the other four volumes that are left over for the other 4 cut sizes that are left over. If we plug in 0 as our input we get 7 times 5 times 0 which is just 0. So if the cut side is 0, the volume of the box will be 0. This makes sense because there will be no flaps to fold up since there would have been nothing cut out of the original rectangle. You won't be able to make a box at all and it definitely wouldn't be able to hold anything. So it makes sense that the volume of that would be 0. Plugging in 2 to this equation gives us v of 2 equals 6. Plugging 3 in gives us for the volume of negative 3. And last but not least, if we plug in 4 for x, we end up with a volume of 12 cubic inches. But, uh-oh, it looks like we have a problem. We did fill in our table completely, but one of these answers for the volume of a box doesn't make sense. Can you tell me which answer is the one that has an issue? Keep in mind what volume is in the real world, and then how the quantities that it's allowed to equal will impact your decision over here. This one. The one where v of x equals negative 3. Or rather v of 3 equals negative 3. How can we have a negative volume? That doesn't make any sense whatsoever. The reason that this volume doesn't work is because it's giving us a negative value. For a quantity that we should be able to touch and feel, it's tangible. And length and areas and volumes are usually positive. Let's see if we can figure out why by using a real piece of paper again. After all, this is the right size, so maybe if we try to make this box, we'll figure out what's going wrong. Here's my ruler and my piece of paper and I'm going to measure in three inches from each side and then in the other direction as well. Okay, so there's one of the squares we should draw. Now let's draw the other three. Two squares, and now potentially for the tricky ones. So here's the issue we have when I tried to draw my boxes for the corners that I want to cut out. This length right here is 3 inches, or x, the length of the square that I want to cut out. But you can see that if I started to cut here, and actually cut down the whole length, right there, I'm already cutting into an area that's supposed to be part of another square that I'm going to, to cut out. This is a major issue. I'm not going to have enough flaps left, or enough material left if I cut out all of this. In fact, let's just do it to see what happens. Now I just have this strip of paper and I can't make a box out of this.There are no flaps. I guess this has something to do with what's going on. So for our 5 inch by 7 inch piece of paper, what value must x, the cut length, not exceed in order for us to still be able to have flaps that we can fold up and make this into a box? Just think back on what the problem was before with the 3 in cut length, and use your common sense. This is kind of a riddle. So, just think through and take your time. X must not exceed 2.5 inches if we want to avoid running into the same problem that we ran into just a second ago. Here's why. Of the two sides of our original piece of paper, the 5 inch long one is the shorter one. And we'll end up without a flap to fold up from the 5 inch side. If the side length of the square that we cut out is at least as long as half the length of this side, which is 2.5 inches. Now that we know the upper limit of what x can equal, that brings me to our next question of what the lower limit of values x can equal is. Rather, if we want to make sure that we can still fold this piece of paper into a box, what value does x need to be greatest than at all times? We need to make sure that x is greater than 0 inches. Now of course if x was equal to 0, then we just wouldn't have cut into the box at all. You would have just a regular rectangle of paper. And this is physically possible, however there are no flaps here to fold so it's not really our ideal situation. A negative value, however, doesn't make any sense. After all, like we've seen many times in different examples throughout this course, measuring negative lengths is a pretty tricky thing to do. It doesn't make sense in this situation. So, bottom line, if we want flaps, x must be greater than 0. Remember that the reason Athena is creating all of these box models in the first place, is for her architecture internship. So, that means that when she's discussing functions like this one, she's probably going to want to focus on the values of the domain that make sense in the physical situation she's discussing. We figured out before, that if Athena wants to make sure, that she's actually able to fold her piece of paper into a box, x should be greater than zero. But it should also be less than 2.5 inches. However, we saw that if x equals zero, then the volume equals zero. And if x equals 2.5, the volume also equals 2.5. The idea of zero volume is actually pretty understandable. It's negative volume that's the issue. So, I'm going to go ahead and decide to include these endpoints in our domain. So, here we go. This is the domain of the function that we've decided upon, using our common sense to deal with the situation at hand. So, like we talked about in the last lesson, this is not a mathematically-imposed domain restriction. This is one that we're imposing upon the equation ourselves to make the equation better fit the situation of the box. So, let's visualize this with a graph using this domain restriction. So, here's what a graph of this function looks like with these domain restriction put in place. We can see that the graph is only allowed to take on values of x between 0 and 2.5. And as shown in this inequality, our interval includes these end points, so they are closed circles to either one. Thinking back to the beginning of the lesson, remember that Athena was interested in figuring out what value of cut length or x, would maximize the volume of her box. So the question I have for you is, on this interval that we've decided are possible values for x in our situation, which of those values leads to that maximum volume? See if you can figure out a ballpark range on the graph, of where you think that maximum point is. Estimate what the x coordinate of that point is, and then pick the point over here that you think is closest. The answer is 0.959. Now on our graph if we're looking for the maximum point, we travel up, and it looks like the peek is right about here, just to the left of the line x equals 1. That means that .959 is the closest answer. So what does this tell us? Well, this tells us that if Athena cuts squares of side length .959 inches out of each corner of a piece of paper, the box you would get out of that would have the highest volume that any box you could make out of that initial piece of paper could. Now that we've figured out the horizontal position of the maximum value of the function, in this interval at least, I'd like you to find that maximum value of the function that we're looking for. So, find the y coordinate or the f of x coordinate of this peak point. Is it about 0, 2.5, 10.243, 15.02, 25.6 or 13.67. There are a couple of different ways that we could do this problem. For one thing, we could go back to the graph like we did the first time to figure out about where we thought this peak was, but since we already have an x value for that peak of 0.959, we could also plug this value into the equation for V. We could use it as a value for the function. The general way we do it graphically or by hand, we can see that the y value of this point is about equal to 15. So, 15.02 is the answer. In this problem we wanted to find the maximum volume, and we successfully did that. We found the coordinates of this top point for this portion of the curve. Finding maximum and minimum is something we're often interested in, in math. It's a matter of identifying the point on a graph that is highest or lowest on the vertical axis. In a given area of the domain. So what is the minimum of this function? Please fill in the two blanks right here. Tell me first what the minimum value of the function is, where we can tell the value of the function based on the vertical axis here, which represents f of x, and tell me then what the x coordinate of this maximum is. Well right here, is the point that's the minimum, the vertex of the parabola. It looks like its height, or its vertical coordinate is 3 and its horizontal coordinate is 2. Since the vertex of an upward facing parabola represents the minimum point on the entire curve, 3 is the lowest y value, or lowest value of f of x, that any point on this fuction will have. So, here, once again, is our graph of the volume of a box versus the length of the cut that we put in it, to be able to fold the sides up. And clearly, the one that we have here is the restricted domain version, the one that Athena wanted, because of the real life situation that she was using this in conjunction with. However, let's take a second to look at the equation for this function. We had A of x so you go to 7 minus 2X times 5 minus 2X times x. And you'll remember earlier on, I multiplied all of these out. And when we do this all of this multiplication out, we get a different form, for expressing this function, 4x cubed minus 24x squared plus 35x. And the reason I wanted multiplication out right now, so I think you might notice, this equation is pretty different from anything else that we've grasped so far in the course. In particular, we have an exponent of 3 in our function. What on earth does a graph that has a third degree term in it look like? Well, why don't we get rid of these domain restrictions briefly and zoom out, and look at the entire graph that this is part of. So, here's the full version of our function without any domain restrictions. Multiply it out. The function, itself, is 4x cubed minus 24x squared plus 35x. This is a totally different equation than anything we've dealt with before, graphically, at least, though we did see expressions that look like this early on in the course. Because this function has a different degree than other functions we've dealt with, it's going to have different graphical properties as well. Now, I've labeled a few different special points on the graph or points that may potentially be special. And I'd like you to help identify what they are. So, in each of the purple boxes over here, to complete the statements, I'd like you to fill in letters that go with these different points. And there's this blue one right here, this, I'd like to be a number that you just type in. So basically, I'm asking you which points are the x-intercept and how many are there? Where the function changes from increasing to decreasing, and when it changes from decreasing to increasing. There are three x intercepts. Which we can see are the points a, c, and e. Now, remember that a function is said to be increasing if its slope is positive. Because that means that the y values, or the values of the function, the output, are continuing to increase in value. And the graph goes from having a positive slope to having a negative slope. At the point b. That's the point of transition from the function increasing, to the function decreasing. And the function continues to decrease, until point d. At which point it switches from decreasing to increasing. Awesome job. Now we just said that points B and D, are special because they represent a switch in the direction of the slope of the function. Now speaking of general behavior of the function, I'd like you to tell me, what its domain is and what its range is. Now please note that even though I've written y equals this time instead of F of x equals. This is to remind you that the reason an equation is a function is not because of what we choose to call the dependent variable. It's because of the way that this expression over here involving x's maps the inputs to the output. This is in fact a function, and we can write that in a more technical way by saying y equals f of x. In other words the real function of x is this expression over here. The one that's taking all the inputs of x and modifying them to create the output which is y. Just on the side to make sure you understand the notation here, what purpose it serves and how all these different things are connected. So back to the function itself, please write the domain and the range using interval notation in these two boxes. The domain of this function is all the real numbers, which we write in interval notation as spanning from negative infinity to positive infinity. Now, there are no domain restrictions on this function imposed by the math itself because every value of x that we could plug in from all the real numbers, is going to cause the function to spit out a real value of y as well. So, what is its range? Another good question. Well, we can see from the graph, that as x decreases, y is continuing to decrease as well. And as x increases, y is continuing to increase. If we look at the function, the higher the value of x that we plug in, the higher and higher and higher, y is going to go. And similarly, the lower the x value we input, the smaller this number over here is going to get for the output. So, the range is also all the real numbers. So, we just showed that the domain and the range function are both all the real numbers. But still, from looking at this graph, points B and D seem to stand out. As we saw before, B and D both represent changes in the direction of, of the slope of the graph. They also kind of look like a peak and a valley. Now, let's compare this to another kind of peak or valley that we've seen before. Now, let's say that in addition to this curve, we have a second one on the set of axes. It's another function, and this time, it's just a parabola, a shape that we've seen many times before. Now, I'm going to label the vertex on this parabola, which we know is a special point for it, and I'm going to call that point G. I've given you four choices to choose from to figure out what is special about points B, D, and G. Is one of them a global minimum, or a global maximum, or a relative minimum, or a relative maximum? Please pick the proper letter to go in each box. Point B over here is a relative maximum, point D is a relative minimum, and point G is a global minimum. So, just think about what the words global and relative mean here. Relative maximum, for example, when applied to a certain point on the curve implies that the y-coordinate or the output of that function is higher than the values of the y-coordinates surrounding it. The opposite is true for relative minimum. Although the graphicals all the way down to negative infinity down here, there are other points where the graph gets to make the awesome transition from having a negative slope to making a positive slope. Let's talk about one of the new terms that we just saw in the last quiz, a relative minimum. Now if we have some function, f of x, we can call a value of that function, at a certain point, a relative minimum, if it is related to other points on the function how. Does it need to be lower than them or higher than them? And does being a relative minimum refer to the value of the function at that point, in relation to the entire range of the function, or just in relation to other values of the function near the relative minimum? So relative minimum is a value of the function that is lower than other values of the function, but just values that are near that point. So, this is why the point "D" on this function over here is a relative minimum since we know that the range of this graph goes all the way down to negative infinity D Is definitely not the lowest point on the graph. In fact we can see, looking at points over here. To the left hand side of the graph. That there are values visible to us right now. That are lower than the value of the function at D. However, compared to all the values adjacent to D. Whether you move to the left or to the right, the function has its lowest value at this spot. This is different from a global maximum like at G. There's no other point on this parabola where the function has a lower value than it does at G. Let's switch things up and talk instead about relative maximum for a second. So I'd like you to answer the same question as you did before, but this time, talking about relative maximum instead of relative minimums. Now, a relative maximum is a value of the function that is higher than all the other values of the function that are in the neighborhood of that point. So, a so-called relative maximum like a relative minimum because it's a maximum just in relation to the points surrounding that point. So, as we said before, B on this purple curve is a relative maximum, that's because all of the points to the left of it and all the points to the right of it, in the general area of the curve close to B, have values of the function that are lower than what we find at B itself. So, if we relate B to parts of the graph that are further away, like points up here, we will find some areas where the function takes a higher values than it does with B. But those aren't close by. For the points that B really cares about that are close to it, it's right on top. So, let's spend a bit of time now looking at this new graph that Athena is using for her box-making project. Now, I think that it's pretty incredible if we take a second to notice just how different this new purple curve looks from this other shape, a parabola, which we're super familiar with by now. Now, if we look at their equations, you can notice that the defining difference between the two equations is that this one, for the purple curve is of degree 3. And this one for the parabola is, of course, of degree 2. So, let's explore what makes this graph different, just a little bit deeper. So, the first things first, are both of these graphs functions? For each equation, pick whether or not it is a function. And the answer is yes, both of these are functions. They both pass the vertical line test, which we know means neither one of them as more than one output, or y value, for a given x value. That means that we could also represent these with function notation like f of x instead of y. Y is still perfectly acceptable thought. What do you think the best name, for each of these kinds of functions is? I've given you a list of different possible names here. And for each one, I'd like you to pick one from the list. Your choices are constant function, linear function, quadratic function, cubic function, square root function, or absolute value function. This first one y equals 3x squared plus 12x plus 20 is a quadratic function. And the second, y equals 4x cubed minus 24x squared plus 35x is a cubic function. Now both of these names might remind you of some stuff that you learned during our polynomial section at the beginning of the course and that makes perfect sense. The names of these types of functions refer to the degree of either one of them. So cubic refers to the fact that this is of degree 3, and quadratic refers to the fact that this is of degree 2. Now since cubic functions like this one right here, are completely new to us, I think it would be good to get back to the basics a bit. Think about the defining feature of a cubic function. What is it that makes this cubic instead of quadratic? Then write the simplest cubic function you can think of in this box. F of x equals x cubed is the simplest cubic function that I can think of. Since in order to be a cubic polynomial, an expression must have at least one term that's of degree 3, and that must be the term with the highest degree. This certainly does seem like the simplest cubic function we can come up with. It's just x multiplied by itself three times. Now, because this function is so basic, so primary, this gets a special name, a special designation, of being called the parent function for cubics. Just like f of x squared is the parent function for quadratics. We just talked about the parent function for a cubic functions, f of x equals x-cubed. So I thought I should show you the graph of this function. Here it is, this blue, pretty curve. You can see that this has the same overall behavior, as the other cubic function that we saw in the last example. That one looked a little more like this. You can see that the overall behavior is the same. One end of the graph is going down to negative infinity, and the other end of the graph is going up to positive infinity. In the middle, there's sort of a grey area of, in this case, going down and then going up again, and in this case, sort of leveling out for a bit. Now as I said in the last quiz, this parent function looks really different from the parent function for quadratic functions. Let's just add that on to our graph, so we can compare them more easily. So here, once again, is the parent function for a quadratic function, f of x equals x squared. Let's examine the overall behavior of this graph as well. We know that the general shape of a parabola is kind of like a u, or if it's upside down, like an n. Whether it's opening upward or opening downward, the parabola has a vertex, which is either its minimum or its maximum. And then both of its ends point in the same direction. And then as x gets further away in either the negative direction,or the positive direction, the graph points the same way. Either both ends of it go to positive infinity, or both ends go to negative infinity. We also talked earlier about how a parabola has an axis of symmetry running down the middle of it. So that if you fold the graph in half along that line, it will exactly map to the other side of itself. That's not the case over here with x cubed. If we simply fold this graph in half, down the y-axis, this right side is not going to end up looking just like the left side. It'll look more like this, not the same. This is all really interesting stuff. Now since we're increasing powers, why don't we just do that one more time. So I've put both y equals x squared and y equals x cubed on the same coordinate plane, then I draw another graph over here for you. My question for you now is what function does this graph represent? Now think about what this graph does on either side of the y axis. And also think about what points you'd expect each of these functions to go through. Your choices are y equals x, y equals x squared, y equals x cubed, y equals x to the fourth and y equals x to the fifth. So you can always make a t chart and plug in some points and see which of those t charts best matches this graph. This is the graph of y equals x to the 4th. Now because this power is even just like x squared, there's no real number that we can plug in for x, that's going to give us a negative answer for y. For example, negative 3 taken to the 4th power is just four negative 3s multiplied together. And because there are an even number of negative signs here, they're all going to cancel one another out to give us a positive answer. Sure enough, this is positive 81. So what this parent graph, y equals x to the fourth, of fourth order polynomial functions, the lowest y value that we can have is going to be this point right here, when x equals 0. This point is just the origin: zero, zero. So, we still have x squared and x cubed functions graphed over here on this coordinate plane. And here, I have y equals x to the 4th graphed as well. I'd like you to take a second and compare the overall behavior of x to the 4th to x squared. I know that all three of these graphs actually go through the origin. Which makes sense, because zero taken to any power is just equal to zero. So we plug in zero for x, and any of them, the y value is going to be zero as well. However, both of the graphs that have even powers have that property that I talked about in the previous answer video. Either end of the graph is going to point in the same direction. Either going to have a sort of U-shape overall or sort of upside down U-shape. The U for x to the 4th just happens to be a bit steeper than it does for x squared. So, let's see if this pattern continues as we move even higher in degree with our polynomial functions. Yet again, I've added more graphs. One of these is the graph of y equals x to the 5th, and one of them is the graph of y equals x to the 6th. So, thinking about the patterns that you noticed over here with our first three graphs that you're considering, what do you think the overall behavior of this 5th degree function will look like versus the 6th degree function? This first graph over here, this green one, is the graph of y equals x to the 5th. And this purple one is y equals x to the 6th. Notice that this does, in fact, continue that pattern that we had started to pick up on over here. Just like x squared and x to the 4th, x to the 6this shaped sort of like a U. Although it's even steeper or skinnier, than the x to the 4th function. And it's base looks to be a bit wider. So, as you move away from 0, the graph isn't initially increasing very quickly. And then it shoots up really fast as soon as we move past 1. Think about why this is y. You might want to make a T chart with values at the input for the function smaller than 1, and see how the value of y increases as x increases. Now, just like y equals x to the 3rd, y equals x to the 5th has one tail, or one end of the graph pointing to negative infinity, and the other pointing to positive infinity. Then we can see that y equals x to the 5th is, once again, a skinnier graph than y equals x to the 3rd. But it still has pretty much the same shape. This is really interesting. On these two separate graphs right now, I put all of the parent polynomial functions that we've talked about so far. And they're grouped according to which ones he said had similar end behavior. Or in other words, similar behavior at either tail of the graph moving away from to origin. However, I have added one extra graph, we didn't talk about in this session explicitly and that's the graph of y equals x. Remember that technically the variable x is a polynomial. It's just a polynomial of first degree. Pretty simple. I know that it looks pretty different from both x cubed and x to the 5th, but I do have a reason for putting it over here. You'll see in a second. First of all though, the similar behavior of graphs over here and of graphs over here, has led these groups of functions to have names. All the functions on one of these two graphs are even functions. And the other set are odd functions. So which one do you think is which? I've labeled this set of graphs a, and this set of graphs b. Just use your common sense to answer this question. The functions on graph A are even functions and the functions on graph B are odd functions. This correlates, as we can see, with the powers that each of these functions have. Over here, our powers are 2, 4, and 6, and over here, they're 1, 3, and 5. These are odd number powers and these are even number powers. I'd like to take a second to talk about a pretty important concept in Math in general, especially when we're talking about graphing. And that is symmetry. We talked about this to a certain extent when we were dealing with quadratic functions, like y equals x squared. We said that if you have a parabola like this one, we know that we can draw a line that goes straight through its vertex, such that, if you folded the problem in half along this line then it would map directly onto itself. In other words, at any point along this middle line, this axis of symmetry, the points on the parabola directly to the left or right of it, are equally distant from the axis. So if I'm at this position for example, this y value, then the distance in the extraction from here to here, is the same in terms of absolute value, as the distance from here to here. Now it seems looking at these other even functions, like a similar kind of symmetry applies to them. One question is, do odd functions have symmetry as well? And, in both cases, how do we mathematically express that symmetry. Now, I'm about to give you a kind of complex quiz that's going to require a fair amount of critical thinking and some new materials. So, this is going to definitely be a major challenge problem. So, if we know that a point, that we are going to call x comma y, is on a given graph. What if we find that the point negative x comma y is also on that graph? What does that say about this graph? Does that mean that is represent an even function, or an odd function, or neither of these? Think about which of the graphs either on this plane or this plane, this property applies to. And you can even test it out with real points. This means that this is graphing an even function. Let's think about y. If we pick a y coordinate on any one of these graphs, let's say 10, [inaudible] distance we need to move to the right, in order to hit our curve, is the same as the distance we would need to move, to the left to hit the curve, just in the opposite direction of course. So that means the x coordinate, of the point whose y coordinate is 10, on the right side, is just the opposite of the x coordinate, of the point whose y coordinate is 10 to the left side of the y axis. This makes sense mathematically as well. Let's take a look at y equals x squared to see how. Let's say we have an x coordinate of 3, well then y is going to equal 3 squared, which is just 9. However we also know that if we had negative 3 instead Well, negative three squared is also nine. Negative numbers and positive numbers that the same absolute value, have the same squares. Reflecting on what we learned about even functions in the last quiz, which of these descriptions do you think also apply to even functions? Do they have symmetry across the x-axis? Symmetry across the y-axis? Is it true for them that f of negative x is equal to f of x or that f of negative x is equal to negative f of x, please pick as many as you think are correct. The line that runs down the middle dividing all of these even functions in half is the y axis. So they have symmetry across the y axis. Just by looking we can tell that they don't have symmetry across the x axis. In fact, none of these even functions even have any points that lie below the x axis. So that means that none of the points on them that lay above it, will have corresponding points that there reflected across from. Now, these last two choices might look a little bit complicated, but taking your time and thinking through them you can figure out which one's true, if either one. Saying that f of negative x Is equal to f of x, is basically saying that two points lie on a graph. This is the same as saying that if we have the point x, y, or x, f of x, then we'll also have the point negative x, y. This is saying that when you plug in the negative version of some x value, you get the same y value since the value of the function is the same at those two x coordinates. We already saw in the last quiz that this is in fact true of even functions. So this also applies. The last answer does not, since having it be true would mean that this third one couldn't be true. So we've been focusing on even functions for the last few quizzes, and I think it's time that we pay attention to the odd ones for a little bit. So let's ask the same question of odd functions. Which of these choices apply in their case? Do they have symmetry across the x axis or the y axis? And do either of these rules about points on the functions apply? If we try to fold any of the curves on this graph across the y-axis, none of them are going to map over to themselves. So, they must symmetry across the y-axis. The same is true of the x-axis when we try it there. Folding them in half along this line is not going to make points up here match points down here because they're on opposite sides of the y-axis. So, it looks like neither of these 2 symmetries applies in the case of odd functions. However, let's look at these last 2 choices. Maybe one of them works. We know that this is a property of even functions, that points equidistant from the y-axis have the same y value. But it doesn't look like this is true of odd functions. If I pick some x coordinate like 5, and I find the given y coordinate, then finding the opposite x coordinate, negative 5 does not give me the same y coordinate. It's all the way down here, instead of up here. However, these y coordinates are related. This one is the negative version of this one. So that means this last rule is true. We just said that, for odd functions, f of negative x is equal to negative f of x. So I'm wondering if we can translate that to be a little bit more clear in terms of coordinates of points on the graphs of odd functions. So if we know that a point x, y lies on the graph of an odd function. Then what does this rule tell us is another point that lies on the function? If we look at either side of this equation, we can figure out what points it corresponds to. Let's start off by remembering what this equation is saying. If we look at either side of this equation, we can translate each side into a point that lies on the graph of an odd function. This is part of the beauty of using function notation. F of negative x is the y value of a point. And it also tells us what the x value of that point is. This left side means then that we have the point negative x comma, let's call it y for a y coordinate. And the right side then, has x as its x coordinate since that's the input. And then its y coordinate, f of x, is just the negative version of this y coordinate. Now here's where it gets a little bit tricky. I didn't tell you that either of these points lies on the graph, I told you that point x comma y lies on the graph. What's the difference between this point and this point, though? Well, here we have negative x and then we have positive x. And here we have positive y and negative y. So it looks like for each coordinate, the only thing that has changes is the sign. If we do that to this point, then what we get is negative x coma negative y. So that's your answer, this is another point that lies in the curve. Since we're talking about functions that are even, functions that are odd, and potentially functions that are neither ever nor odd, I've graphed a bunch of different curves over here for you. Curves and lines, and I've labeled each of them with a letter. I'd like you to tell me whether each of these graphs represents an even function, an odd function, or neither an even function nor an odd function. Our even functions, those which are symmetric across the y axis, are A, B and F. This one, this one and this one. We have two odd functions in the graph. Graph C and graph D. And we have one function that is neither even nor odd, which is this graph E. Now, what type of function is each graph representing? One of them is a constant function, one of them is a linear function, one a quadratic function, one an absolute value function, one a cubic function, and one a square root function. Please place the letter of the graph that goes with each of these types of functions in the box next to it. Now you may not have heard the term constant function before, but intuitively we think that, this is a function that has a constant value, at all values of the input. That's what graph A is. It's at the form y equals some constant, C, let's say. Actually in this case it looks more like 3, so we'll just write that. Linear functions you recognize. It's graph C right here. The quadratic function is the parabola, graph F. The absolute value function, which you saw in a problem set earlier in the course, is graph B. The cubic function is graph D. And the square root function is graph E. Now you may not have seen this graph before either. But as always, you can test points picking values of x and then plugging them into the function to figure what the y coordinate should be. The graph of this function is y equals the square root of x. So if x equals 0, y equals 0. If x equals 1, y equals 1. And we can see that moving further over, if x equals 5, y equals just over 2. Hi, I'm Miriam. And, I'm Julie and we're your instructors for College Algebra, Animals, Architecture and Innovation. You'll be seeing a lot of our hands throughout the course, but we thought we would show you our faces too, so you could get to know us better. For you people out there, who don't think you are math people, we're out here to prove you wrong. Recent research has shown that students who have difficulties learning mathematics, have difficulties not because they're not smart, but because often they've had bad experiences learning mathematics. What's even better is that you can help your brain grow through doing math. This course is designed to help you play around with college algebra. Try to step out, make mistakes, try again, just get involved with it. Research also shows that making mistakes helps with learning. You're hear to learn about college algebra. We don't expect you to know everything. And you're not alone either, we have thousands of students all over the world taking this course. Talking about math can actually help you learn it better and the forum is a great place to do this. You can ask questions about things you don't understand or even just about cool algebra related things. So that's probably pretty different from other math classes you've taken before. It's theme based and it focuses on inquiry learning which means that we help you discover the mathematics on your own and show how it's relevant for your life. We hope you enjoy the course. Let's get started. Since we're going to be doing a lot of math together in this course, a great place to start would be by talking about numbers, since we'll use them all the time. What is a number really? Well, it's not a thing out here in the world that we can see and touch. I at least have never seen a three or a negative 15 and a half walking around anywhere. Instead, numbers are abstract and we use them as tools to talk about things that we find around us. A kindergarten teacher, for example, needs to make sure that none of her students gets lost when she takes them on a trip to the zoo. One way she could do this would be by constantly looking at a list of their names and double-checking that every child on the list is in the group, but this would get really tiring and probably wouldn't be all that effective. What do you think might be a better way of doing this? Our first quiz of the course will be a really kind of silly question, but, let's go with it. How could a teacher make sure that none of her students get lost at the zoo? And here are a couple of answers that you get to choose from. Tell them all to be responsible for themselves and not run off. Your second choice is hope for the best. Your third choice is count them. Your last choice is they probably shouldn't go on the trip at, at all, just to be safe. Please click the circle next the choice below, that you think is the best answer. When you've picked which one you think is right, press the Submit button underneath. Now this is kind of a funny question with some funny answers, and so depending on your thinking, you might picked any of these answers. I personally though, think the best answers is the third one, to count them. If the teacher counts her students before they leave and then counts them at different points during their time at the zoo, she can know pretty easily whether or not they are all sticking together. Congratulations on completing your first quiz of the class whether you picked the same answer as I did or not. You'll encounter many quizzes like this throughout the rest of the course. Although they probably won't all be as silly as this one. But please remember that even as we dig deeper into algebra, the point of all of these quizzes will be for you to check if you understand the material. Just give each question some thought and if you're have trouble choosing an answer, rewatch the video or couple of videos preceding the quiz. If you get a question right that's awesome and if you miss one that's not a big deal at all. Just try it again and submit your new answer. You can redo each question as many times as you need to. We want you to do whatever you need to do to really understand the material. So counting lets us think about quantities of objects and answer questions about them, whether it's how many students are in a teacher's class or how many moons orbit Saturn. Now, usually, when we count, we start with the number one and then we get to two, and three, four, and so on so forth. And we could keep counting like that until we get to huge numbers, like 1,000 or 1 million or 1 trillion, and even then, we could still keep going. Now, this special set of numbers has a name, they are called the natural numbers. So the natural numbers start with one and increase by ones forever. So now we want to make sure that you're totally solid on what falls under this category. Which of these numbers are natural numbers, 735, 6, 89.1, -1,000, 1/3, and 19? This is a slightly different kind of than then the last one. This time I want you to check off all of the answers that you think are right. So that might mean checking more than one, in some cases, you might even check off all of the answers that are there. Remember that the only numbers that are natural numbers are 1, 2, 3, 4 and so on going up, but counting by ones. If we did that we would eventually get to 735 so this is a natural number. So as 6. 89.1 lies between two natural numbers. 89 and 90 but it in itself is not a natural number because of the decimal of .1. 11000 and 1/3 are both less than 1, which is the smallest natural number, so neither of them belong in the set of natural numbers. Our last answer, 19 However is a natural number. We can already see this from the quiz, that there are a lot of numbers out there that don't qualify as natural numbers and we'll talk more about them very soon. Now, let's think of another thing that we can count. How about something simple like cupcakes. Let's say that one of your friends bakes a bunch of cupcakes for your birthday party. He bakes 50 cupcakes. You are a very popular person. So a ton of people come and the cupcakes are really delicious, so pretty much everyone eats at least one. Halfway through the party people start coming up to you and asking you how many cupcakes are left. You look around and realize that you can't seem to find any cupcakes anywhere. They must have all been eaten. Can you tell your friends that there aren't any cupcakes left using a natural number? Please pick yes or no. And the answer to this question is, no. What number do you need to answer their question, how many cupcakes are left? Please type your answer into the box right here If you wrote 0, you're correct. Zero is not a natural number. For example, when we think back to the kindergarten teacher example, she does not start counting her children starting with zero. She begins with one. You can think of the natural numbers as counting numbers, and when we count, we usually begin with the number one not zero. But zero does have some things in common with the natural numbers. We can talk about there being zero of some kind of object like cupcakes. When considered as a single group, zero and the natural numbers make up what we call the whole numbers. So let's go over the two groups we have so far. First, we talked about the natural numbers or the counting numbers, which are one, two, three, and so on, all the way up to infinity. So this includes a ton of other numbers, too, like 89, 560, and 9,345,000, 760, as well as every other number that we could count from one up to infinity. The whole numbers include all of these numbers but also zero. So you can see that our sets of numbers are starting to build on each other. Which of the following sentences accurately describe the relationship between the natural and the whole numbers? Please select as many as you think are correct. We know that the natural numbers start with one and increase by ones from there. So there are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and so on. Continuing to count up forever, and we know that the whole numbers are all of these numbers plus zero. So if we were to list all of the whole numbers in ascending numbers they would be 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 etcetera. So that means that every natural number is a whole number, which is the second choice here and the last choice is also true because almost all of the whole numbers are natural numbers but zero is not a natural number. So, you can see how this diagram that I drew earlier works. The circle representing the natural numbers is within the circle representing the whole numbers, showing that the natural numbers are all included in the whole numbers. If we pick any number, we can point to which category or categories it fits into by pointing somewhere on this diagram. For example, if I pick 18, then 18 is a natural number. So we can point here. But since that circle is inside of the whole number circle, we know that 18 is also a whole number. If we pick zero however, We can only point to the whole number circle, not the natural number circle since zero is whole, but not natural And if I pick a number like 16.5, well, that is not in either of these categories. So we would need to point outside of both of these circles. So you can see that we're building up this sort of world of numbers. And we're going to keep adding more to it. Next, we're going to talk about integers, which, if we represent them in our world of numbers here, would be drawn as a circle around the whole numbers like this. Even though I haven't told you anything about integers yet. Can you tell me just by looking at this diagram, which of the following statements are true? Let's go through the same sort of thought process that we did for the previous quiz. Since the entire whole number circle is inside of the integer circle, we know that all whole numbers are integers. By the same token, some, but not all integers are whole numbers. We also then know that not all integers are whole numbers, so this answer can't be right. In this same way, not all integers are natural numbers since the natural numbers circle is inside the whole number circle. This also means though, that all natural numbers are integers. I hope this is helped you to see a bit more clearly how these different sets of numbers are related to one another and fit together in this diagram. So now that we've talked about integers quite a bit, let's talk about which numbers actually are integers. We already know a bunch of examples of integers since we know that all whole numbers and therefore all natural numbers are integers. So any number that we could get to by starting at 0 and counting up by 1s is an integer. These numbers however are just the positive integers. First 0 of course. But there are also a turn of other numbers that are integers and these are the negative integers. The negative integers are just negative versions of all of the positive integers. So, since 3 is an integer, negative 3 is also an integer. The integers are all numbers from negative infinity. To positive infinity that can be written without any fractions or decimals. Think about this new definition of an integer and about the other classifications of numbers that we've talked about. Please fill out the chart below. Please check off each of the categories the number falls into. So now that you've completed your chart, lets take a look at the answers. Lets start out by looking at the numbers -1 and -9. They're both integer, and negative integer. Those are the 2 that should be checked. So now lets take a look at 0. There are 4 boxes you should have checked, for zero. You should have checked integer, zero, whole number, and non-negative integers. So now let's look at the number 7 and 12. You should have had checked integer, positive integer, natural number, whole number, and non-negative integers for both of them. Let's look at the last category of numbers. The numbers 3/4, .5, and pi. Those don't fit into any category so you should of checked none of the above, for 3/4, .5, and pi. We've been using the word set to describe these different groups of numbers and that's exactly what a set is, a collection of numbers. So, the natural numbers is the set 1,2,3 and so forth. And the whole numbers is the set 0, 1, 2, 3 and so forth. And we might represent the set of integers like this with ellipses on both ends to represent going on to infinity. We usually denote sets with these curly braces around the numbers and commas between the numbers we give certain sets. Like the ones we've talked about special names. But really a set can be made up of any numbers that we put together for whatever reason. So for example, this set -4, 7, 19 is a set. And so is -38, 56, 100.5. As is 9. Now, since all of the numbers in the set of natural numbers are also in the set of whole numbers, we call the natural numbers a subset of the whole numbers. A subset of a set, is another set of numbers that are all contained in the original set. So its a little bit of practice to make sure you understand what sets and subsets are. Here's a random set of numbers, -4 -3, 0, 0.6, 1, 5, 8. Which of the choices below are subsets of the set? You may pick more than one answer. Now let's look that the answers. The first set, -4, 1, and 5 is indeed a subset of the original set because all of the numbers contained in the subset are in the original set. Let's look at the second subset, -3, -2, 0, and 5. Since -2 is not in the original set, this can not be A subset of the original set. Looking at the subset zero. Zero is, indeed, in the original set. So that the set zero would be a subset of the original set. Let's look at the set. 0.5, 0.6, 1, and 2. There are a couple of numbers there that are not in the original set so that, that set would not be a subset of the original. Now let's look at the set 4,5. Again the number four is not in the original set so this is not a subset. Of the original. And the last set, 5 and 8. Both of these numbers are in the original set, so this is indeed a subset of the original set. Since we're talking about sets and subsets, let's see how these words apply to the number groupings we've been talking about. Which of the statements below do you think are true? To determine if these statements are true or false, it's somewhat easier to look at the diagram we previously discussed. So, if we look at the first statement, the integers are a subset of the whole numbers. We can see that this would be false because the integers is a larger set than the set of whole numbers. The whole numbers are a subset of the integers, that's true, as is the next statement, the natural numbers are a subset of the integers. However, the whole numbers are not a subset of the natural numbers. You can see the natural numbers are actually a subset of the whole numbers, which makes the last statement true as well. However, if we look at the statement, the integers are a subset of the natural numbers, this is also false. Because as you can see, the natural numbers are a subset of the integers. Overall, it's easiest to determine if a set is a subset of another set by looking at the circles. If the circle is entirely contained within another circle, it is a subset of the set. So far we've talked about a lot of numbers, both positive and negative, and our world of numbers is looking pretty great. Still, we've really only been counting by ones, whether above or below 0. This might be a problem however. Thinking back to your famous birthday party, what if your friend had baked a few cakes instead of making a ton of cupcakes? If you asked someone how much cake they wanted and they only knew about integers, they would have to say that they either wanted no cake at all, or they wanted 1 whole cake, or maybe even 2 entire cakes. This doesn't seem very practical and you'll also run out of cake very quickly. You would probably want to cut each cake into slices and then give each person just a piece of the cake. Let's say that you cut 1 of the cakes into 8 pieces. If you gave 5 friends each 1 of those slices, how much of that cake would be left over? If we started out with a cake that has eight pieces and five friends, eight, a piece each, then there would be three pieces that were left out of the total eight. So, 3/8 is your correct solution. Was the answer to the last question an integer? No, 3/8 is a fraction that we could also write as the decimal .375, which lies between two integers, 0 and 1. This requires a new type of number classification. 3/8 is what we call a rational number. We just said that 3/8 is a rational number, but let's talk about a more general definition for this new set of numbers. A rational number is any number that we can write in the form A over B, where both A and B are integers and B is not equal to 0. This is why these numbers are called rational numbers. Because they can be written as a ratio. Think about this for a second. Plug in several different combinations of integers for A and B to give yourself an idea of what some different rational numbers are. Then tell me which of the following world of numbers diagrams correctly shows the rational numbers? This is a slightly tricky question, so if you found it a little bit difficult, no big deal. If we plug in 2 and 3 for a and b for example, we get 2 3rds or point 6 repeating as a rational number. And if we plug in 8 and 7, we get 8 7ths, or 1 point 1 4 2 8 5 7 with that decimal repeating. Neither of these are integers. But, if we plug in 10 and 2 for a and b, we get 10 over 2 which is just equal to 5 which we know is an integer. So it turns out that all integers are rational numbers. And some numbers that are not integers are also rational numbers. And that means we need to draw the circle for the rational numbers, so that it completely surrounds the integer circle. Now that you know that every integer is a rational number. That means we should be able to write every single integer in the form of a rational number. Which remember is a/b, where a and b are both integers, and b is not = 0. So how could you express -17 in this form? Please enter values for a and b to make a fraction equivalent to -17 in the slots below. There are a ton of different ways you can do this, so just pick one combination of a and b that you think will work and try it out. Like I said in the question video, there are many, many different values for a and b that you could enter here. But perhaps, the simplest way is to let a=-17 17 and to let b=1. This is an easy way to express any integer. We can write 3 as 3/1 and 29 as 29/1 and -300 as -300/1. But we could also come up with many other fractions that reduce to these integers if we multiply the numerator and the denominator, or a and b, each by the same number. In the case of -17, for example, if we multiply the top and bottom by 2, then we get -34/2, which is another acceptable answer to this quiz. Or you could have put 51/-3 or 17/-1. If you're feeling at all shaky on fractions right now, please take some time to do some of the practice problems we've provided on fractions or watch some of the supplemental material we've linked to. Another question for you. Do you think that 0.6 is a rational number? And the answer is yes. Since 0.6 is rational we should be able to write it in a form of A over B. What is one way you could do that? 0.6 is six tenths, or 6/10. So you could've had this as your answer. 6/10 reduces to 3/5, so this is an acceptable answer as well. We can write many different decimals in fractional form, and thinking back to our definition of rational numbers, any decimal that we can write as a fraction is rational. We saw in the last quiz how important it is to know what rational numbers look like when we write them with decimals instead of with fractions. How would you write 7/16 in decimal notation? What about 1/3? If you can write the entire decimal in five or fewer digits, then enter the whole thing, and otherwise, round to five decimal places. When we divide 7 by 16, we get 0.4375. And when we divide 1 by 3, we get 0.3 repeating. If we round this to five decimal places, we get 0.33333. Though, of course, this is just an approximation of the actual fraction. So with this problem, we see two different types of decimals. Terminating decimals like .4375 and repeating decimals like .3 repeating. Decimals of these 2 types can always be written as fractions. So that means they are rational numbers. Now that we've added another set of numbers to the world of snumber, what category do each of the numbers below fit into? This problem probably looks familiar, we've just added a new category of rational numbers. In this case, all of the numbers are rational, with the exception of pi and the square root of 12. Neither can be expressed as a ratio of integers. We'll discuss these more in a few minutes. A ton of the numbers that we encounter in daily life are rational numbers since we can count many things or just can split them into parts that we can measure, but there are certain situations that might not be quite this simple. Let's say that you have a little cousin and she wants you to build her a slide. This isn't just any slide though. Your cousin is very particular. She wants the slide to be exactly eight feet high, and she wants it to go from a trainer backyard, down into the lake by her house which is 12 feet away from the tree. Now you need to figure out how long the slide will be so that you can buy enough material to make it. You know that there is a rule for the right triangles, the Pythagorean Theorem, that says that the side lengths of a right triangle, a, b, and c, where c is the longest side, fit the formula a^2+b^2=c^2. Since the slide, the tree, and the ground make a right triangle, with the slide itself as the longest side, you know that you can begin to look for the length of the slide by first taking 8^2+12^2, which is just 8 times 8 + 12 times 12. For starters, what is this number? Please type the number of your answer into the box right here. Remember to do your multiplication before your addition. If we first take 8 times 8 we get 64, and if we calculate 12 times 12 we get 144. If we then add these together, we get 64+144 are 208, great. We will make sure that we give you plenty of opportunities throughout the course to practice doing calculations like this just in case you found this tricky. So thinking back to our slide triangle, we know that 208 is not actually the length of the slide that we're trying to find. Instead, this is the square of that length. In other words, we want to find out which number, when multiplied by itself, is equal to 208. Is this number rational? And the answer here is no. The square root of 208 is 14.422205 and I could go on. I could keep writing, but this decimal actually extends on and on forever,without any sort of pattern that repeats. This is different from any of the other kinds of numbers we've talked about so far, and all of those numbers have been rational numbers. Now we need a different category, the rational numbers. When we talked about rational numbers, we said that they are numbers that can be written as ratios of integers. Irrational numbers are numbers that are not rational, so they are numbers that can't be written as ratios of integers. We've seen that rational numbers are either integers or have decimals that either end or repeat. Irrational numbers, therefore, have infinitely long decimals that don't follow any sort of pattern. Perhaps the most common way that we run into irrational numbers is by taking square roots of numbers that are not perfect squares, just like we tried to do with the slide example. There are some other numbers that have special roles in math and physics that are also irrational, like the number E, which is about equal to 2.71828182845... or pi. Please remember that I have just rounded off these decimals because I don't want to write any more numbers, but like all the other irrational numbers, pi and e have infinitely many numbers in the decimals and they do not repeat. So now we've developed a whole world of numbers that fit most things that we need to count. Measure and calculate in every day life. There are still more types of numbers that we haven't touched on yet. Let's look at the whole entire world of numbers just for a second. Let's start with the natural numbers, such as 3 and 718. We then went from the natural numbers to the whole numbers by adding 0 to that set. And on to the set of integers by adding the negative whole numbers. From the integers we get to rational numbers by creating ratios of integers with a non-0 denominator. Those number which are not rational are known as irrational numbers, such as e and pi. They have infinitely long, non repeating decimals. Finally, we get to real numbers, which include the rational and irrational numbers we have discussed this far. So for the next part of the course, we're going to talk about one of the ways that most people use math really frequently, and that is with money. Now even though these dollar bills came out of my pocket, we're not going to talk about my personal financial situation. Instead, we're going to talk about the financial situation of a pretend startup called Gleaming Glasses. Now this story may not be entirely fact based, but the same principles and the same math, that we'll talk about in regards to Gleaming Glasses, apply to businesses in the real world too. My friend Grant kept getting tired of having to clean his glasses. It was really tedious and frustrating. He'd have to take his glasses off of his face to clean them, which means that he could never really see how clean he was getting them in the first place. One day while in the car, Grant had an epiphany. If windshield wipers could clean his windshield so well, why not just make windshield wipers for glasses? But Grant had a problem, he didn't have very much money. So Grant decided that he would pitch his idea to a venture capital firm. Basically, a venture capitalist is a person who invests money in brand new companies that don't have enough money on their own to do what they want to do. Grant's glasses wipers idea was so awesome that he received $3,000,000 from a venture capital firm. Now, what matters isn't just how much money Grant got initially from his funders though. What he really cares about at any given time is how much money he has left over. So, let's have a quiz. How much money do you think Grant has left at any given time? Please pick what you think is the best choice down here to replace the question mark right here. So we know that grant started off with a certain amount of money from the venture capital funders. But then he doesn't just keep it, he starts to spend it. This means that the right choice must take both of these into account, the money that he was given initially and the money that he spent so far. The second and last choices only have one of these two things each, so that means that neither of them can be right. So I'm going to cross them both out. So that just leaves us with these two. Money from funders plus money spent, or money from funders minus money spent. Spending money, actually takes away from the amount of money that we have. It doesn't add to it. So that means that the third choice, right here, money from funders minus money spent must be the right answer. Now without even trying we've actually just done some math. I know that there aren't any numbers here, but what we've created is called an equation. It's called that because of this equal sign right here in the middle. Over doing with this equation is showing that these two quantities, the one on the left side of the equal sign and the one on the right side. Are equal to each other, or have the same numerical value. This is the first of many, many equations that we're going to look at throughout this course. And over time you'll learn to do a ton of different things with them. So we have this lovely equation, which is a great start, but it's still a pretty general equation. Money spent over here, looks like just one lump sum. And chances are, that Grant's not going to spend all of his money at one time. In fact, it turns out that he's made a budget for himself, where he allows himself to spend $100,000 every month. So this means that over time, as each month goes by. The total amount of money that he spent will change. So this means that we can rewrite money spent over here, in a different way, using this new information. So, which of these choices do you think would be a new but accurate way to write out the amount of money that Grant has spent total at any given time? So, we said earlier that Grant spends the same amount of money every month, which means that the total amount of money that he spent will increase incrementally as each month goes by. We know then at the total amount of money spent can't just be equal to the money spent each month Our answer down here has to involve time too. For example, after one year Grant will have spent way more money than he had after just one month of being in business. So that means that this first answer right here can't be right, because it doesn't involve time. However since we know that the same amount of money is spent each month, the second trace rate one here is the correct one. It says that the total amount of money spent after a certain amount of time is equal to the money spent each month times the number of months that have gone by. These 2 bottom answers don't involve the amount of money that Grant is spending, so we can just eliminate them also for good measure. Great job on this quiz. So, here are the two equations that we've come up with so far. One equation for the amount of money that Grant has left after a given amount of time and another equation for the total amount of money he spent depending on how many months have passed since he's been in business. One thing that we can notice about these two equations is that money spent is involved in both of them. Now, remember that what an equation means is that whatever appears on one side of it is exactly equal to what appears on the other side. So since we know something about what money spent is equal to, anywhere we see money spent in any equation in the system, we can replace it with what we know it's equal to. Which is this, the number of money spent each month times the number of months. So taking this idea of substituting in values for other things that we know that they're equal to. Which answer down here would give us another way of writing out how much money we know that Grant has left? I know that this is a lot of writing to have on the screen at one time, so not a problem at all if this looks confusing. Just give the quiz a try and we'll see what happens. So as I said earlier, what we're dealing with here is two equations this one and this one that have one common term which is money spent. We just said that we can substitute money spent with money spent each month times the number of months whenever we want to. So that means that this quantity down here On the right side of the second equation, can be moved up into this slot in the first equation. Having done that substitution now, we can see that the amount of money that Grant has left is equal to the money from the founders - the money spent each month the number of months. If we look down at our answer choices, that is The third choice, so great job on this quiz whether you got it right or you didn't. Like I said earlier, I know that this is a lot of writing to look at on the screen at one time, we're actually going to address that problem in just a second. So now we have this awesome more detailed equation, but I still don't see any numbers. What do we know about numbers in this situation? Well we learned from our story that Grant earned $3 million in venture capital funding. So that means that money from funders right here is well equal to $3 million. So that means we can write down that money from funders is equal to $3 million. We also learned something else about numbers. We heard that every month, Grant spends a certain amount of money and in fact that money is equal to $100,000. Like we've been talking about for the past few minutes, any time you have two things on either side of an equal sign, you can substitute them from another in other equations. So let's see if you can figure out to write an equation for the amount of money that Grant has left. This time using these new numbers. So down here I'd like you to fill in which numbers belong in these two spaces that I have given you. Now you don't need to write dollar signs because I already filled them in for you. So we're just taking all of this information up at the top and combining it into one equation. So, here we have another case of substitution. We know that money from funders is equal to $3 million. So wherever we see money from funders in the top equation, we can replace that with $3,000,000. So down here, we can write, 3 million in the first box, and we can do the same thing with money spent each month. We see that right here, in the first equation, and we know that this is equal to $100,000, so, we write $100,000 right there. So to summarize this, we can see that the money that Grant has left over at any given time is equal to the initial $3 millions that he got from venture capitalists minus the $100,000 he spends each month, times the number of months he's been in business. So now we are in a really great position. We have an equation that actually has numbers in it. However, it's time for me to make a confession. I'm really, really lazy. I'm just super tired of writing out all these words in our equation. I know that it is important first to keep in mind what are equations about. But I think that we can remember that. Even if we do take a few shortcuts as long as I remember what belongs in this spot of the equation or what this part of the equation means. I might as well rewrite money Grant has left with something shorter. I've kind of already taken a few shortcuts already. For example, I've used a dollar sign instead of writing out the word money. And I used a pound sign instead of writing out the words, number of. So it's okay to take shortcuts, as long as they make sense to us. So the thing that I decide to replace these words with could be, really whatever we want. A single letter, or a single symbol. I think I'm going to use a, square. We can do a similar thing for number of months over here. Going with the geometry theme, I am going to call this, triangle, instead of number of months. So what I'm really doing here then, is assigning a new name, to each of these parts of the equation. We're going to say that square equals money Grant has left, and triangle equals number of months. So lets rewrite this top equation up here. Using our new symbols. Here are four spots that we need to fill in to make our new equation. or rather, our modified version of the original equation. Please pick from the buttons under each slot to select which number or symbol belongs in the box above. Good luck. Now, the only thing that we wanted to change with this new equation was to plug in the symbols square and triangle for the words that we had before. So, that means that we only want to change what's right here and what's right here. That means that we can keep the numbers that are already in the equation in the same places. So let's just go ahead and bubble those in. Our substitution rule said that we can replace money Grant has left with a square and number of months with a triangle, so let's bubble those in. Money Grant has left comes first so that means that this square comes first And number of months comes very last. So that means, the triangle, comes at the end. So now, our equation reads, square = $3,000,000 - $100,000 times triangle. Actually, as much as it might surprise you, we've been doing algebra right here. These 2 symbols, the square and the triangle that we assigned to replace the words that we had written earlier are called variables. In algebra we make a distinction between numbers and variables. Numbers are well, numbers, like 3,000,000 or 100,000, and variables are generally represented by symbols or single letters. A variable doesn't have a set value like a number does. Instead, it's value is allowed to vary depending on what we decide that it should equal. We talk more about how we make decisions about that soon. Numbers will appear either as constant terms on their own, just numbers like 3,000,000 right here, or in terms that combine numbers and variables like this last one on the right. When multiplied by a variable or set of variables, a number is called a coefficient. So again, going back to our variables, I could of chosen any two symbols I wanted to represent these two quantities right here, the square and the triangle. I didn't have to choose the triangle and I didn't have to choose the square. In fact picking these two particular symbols, is actually pretty unconventional in math. To give you a preview of what you're usually going to be seeing during this course, I'll write this equation out with more typical notation. We'll most often see the letters X and Y as your variables in equations in algebra. You can also see I've removed the dollar signs and the commas from the original equation down here to make this equation look a little bit more clean and strictly mathematical. You'll notice that I also sneakily deleted the multiplication sign we had in the top equation And didn't write it down here at the bottom. When we have single terms that involve both numbers and variables multiplied together, we don't usually write the multiplication sign in, like I did at the top. As long as we write the symbols directly next to each other, with nothing in between, multiplication is assumed to be happening between them. It's like there's an invisible multiplication sign written right here. I'm going to erase that though, to remind us that we're not usually going to see any multiplication signs written between numbers and variables. Although people doing math often use the variables y and x in their equations, I really want you to remember that this is not necessary. Triangles and squares are just as useful as x's and y's. No matter what symbol you choose to write a variable with, the power that it has is still the same. It acts as a slot where we can insert different numbers to make terms and expressions take on different values. So maybe I set this first variable equal to 3 and the second equal to negative 1 or maybe this is negative 1/2 and this is 23. In certain situations, there will be restrictions placed on what different variables can equal. But, until we have more information about what they equal, we leave them written as variables, showing that their values are still sort of a mystery to us. To make sure that you know how to recognize variables, let's have a quiz. Let's see if you can identify which things in these equations are variable terms. So please place a check under every single term down here that has a variable in it. Remember for our purposes right now a variable is anything that is not just a number. Starting with this first equations up here, we see that we have 3x+4 equals smiley face. 3x has a 3 in it, but this is multiplied by x. A term like this, even though there is a number in it, is called a variable term. Because its whole value is going to change or vary depending on what number we plug in for x. This is definitely a variable term, 4 is just a number so no check there and finally, we have a smiley space. That means, it must be a variable. And we can go through the other three equations in the same way turn-by-turn to figure out what should be checked. And know that there are some things down here that we haven't talked explicitly about yet, and that might have thrown you off. Like, we have a fraction right here and we have a couple of expononents, but we'll get to those things pretty soon. And understanding the difference between variable and nonvariable terms is really important for understanding everything that we're going to do in Algebra. That means we're off to a great start in developing our foundation. In the past few minutes we've touched on a lot of concepts that are going to play a really central role in the rest of the course and really in all math going forwards from here. So I would like to do a review of the algebra vocabulary that we've covered so far. I think it's actually going to amaze you how much we've already gone over in a pretty short amount of time. So first thing first, we have numbers, as one might expect in math. So what are some examples of numbers? Well, we could have any number of things. So like we learned in the very beginning of this course, they're all different kinds of numbers. Some that are pretty simple and we use all the time, like 0 or 1 or 46, and some that are a little bit more special, like the root of 2 or pi. Then in contrast to numbers, we also learned about variables. So, here we have all different kinds of symbols, we have some letters, we have some sillier things like hearts and smiley faces, we got some greek letters. But regardless of what we write variables as they all have the same purpose, as we learned earlier. Variables are symbols that we use in equations and expressions that serve as slots into which we can plug other numbers to make our expressions take on different values. So comparing numbers and variables, numbers have fixed values. They inherently show certain quantities. Variables, however, don't show outright what they stand for, they're just place holders into which we can insert different numbers. One thing to take note of when we're looking at what's inside each of these circles is that we actually have a symbol on the number side. That's this pi right here. Since pi is an irrational number, it extends for an infinite number of decimal points. Now, it took me an awfully long time to write all of this out. So if I were to write even more, that would take me even longer. To make our lives much more simple, we give this infinitely long number a special name, which is pi. A similar thing happens when we write square roots. We have a number, 2, right here but we also have a square root sign over it. Since the root of 2 is also an irrational number the square root sign is just another way of taking a shortcut to not have to write out an infinite number of decimals. So bottom line, when you see symbols, they're almost always variables. They'll be certain cases. Which you'll become well acquainted with when you see things like pi or like a square root sign that are symbols of some sort but represent numbers. Now as I mentioned earlier variables and numbers can be combined. And when we do this, we create expressions. An expression is what you get any time you put numbers and variables together, with mathematical operators. So those are things like plus minus divide and multiply. To make things a little bit more concrete I'll write out a few examples of expressions. So in each of these expressions right here, you see some terms that have variables in them. Like 3x or, or -4m^4 / 13n^3. And these are combined with terms that are just numbers, like 4 or -2. The separate things that we add or subtract to come up with the expressions are called terms. Any term that has a variable in it is called a variable term like 7.8y / 3 or z and other terms that don't have variables in them that are just numbers are called constants or constant terms. I've only labeled the types of terms in the first expression but we could easily figure out what kinds of terms are in the other two expressions, as well. Now, we can't forget about Grant's gleaming glasses. So, let's see how the vocabulary we've discussed pops up in the math we've done for him so far. Now, let's see, what was that last equation that we wrote for the amount of money that he has left? That's right. We had y = 3,000,000 - 100,000x. Remember, y here stands for. The amount of money that Grant has left and x over here stands for the number of months that have gone by since Grant started his business. So you have 3 terms in this equation. You have y, 3,000,000, and -100,000x. Which of these terms are variable terms and which of them are constant terms. Please fill in the proper bubbles below each term. Lets go through the terms, 1 by 1, to figure out what type each of them is. So first we have y, y is not just a number, so that means it cant be a constant term. And we also know, that y is a frequently used letter, to represent variables in Algebra. So, y is a variable term. Then we have 3 million. There are no symbols, other than numbers and In this term. And we know that 3 million is a number, we know how big it is already, so this has a constant value, that means that its a constant term. And lastly we have negative -100,000x. Note that the negative sign belongs with the term itself, so we dont say that the term is 100,000x, we say that it is -100,000x Anyway, this term has two parts, it has a part with a number and a part with a variable. As we talked about before though if a term has a variable in it at all, then that term counts as a variable term. When we plug in numbers for x -100,000x is going to change values because of what we plug in. So the whole term despite have a number in it counts as a variable term. In the last lesson, we looked at the behavior of functions, including their maxima and their minima, and where they're increasing or decreasing. In this lesson, we're going to focus on polynomial functions in particular. We're going to look at their graphs as a whole, and then, also zoom in on certain regions. Now we've learned a lot about some basic functions, like this one, y equals x squared, who's graph is this lovely purple parabola. You also learned about some other polynomial functions. For example, we have y equals x cubed also, which produced this really different and really interesting graph. So clearly the large scale behavior of different functions Is really different on what their equation looks like. And it also changes from region to region of the domain. I wonder what would happen if we increased the degree of polynomial function even more. Like, let's say we have y to the x to the fourth. Well that's totally different again, that's really interesting. Maybe I'll just get rid of these two that we already know a lot about and just focus on this one. Let's do something else, y equals x to the fourth plus. x. Well that's cool. That's totally different from anything we've ever seen before, together. Of course we can add and change terms. If we made this x squared, that changes the behavior again. What if I made this x cubed instead? Everything makes these little, minute adjustments in the middle of the graph here. That's pretty cool. Now I wonder, I just changed one exponent. What if I change this first one? The exponent of the leading term. Wow, now this graph is completely different. Once again changing the degree of the polynomial, seems to really change the overall behavior. What if I make this sign negative? Well that's really interesting, oh my gosh. Clearly changing different terms in polynomials, especially the leading term, the term at the highest power has major affects on the graph. I think this merits some more exploration. In this lesson we're going to investigate the overall appearance of different polynomial functions in terms of how they look when we're zoomed way, way out, and when we're zoomed in on the middle of the graph. In particular we're going to see where these functions intersect the x axis. And how this relates to factors in routes of polynominals. I'm really exicted about the content of this lesson. We've seen that if we have a constant function like y equals 1 it looks like this just a straight horizontal line. Now if we increase the degree of this by one, straighten out this is a zeroth degree polynomial, if we up it by one we get something like y equals x which takes that horizontal line and just rotates it. Now it has a nonzero slope. Now if we increase the power by one more we get a parabola. A quadratic function. And we know if we increase it by one more once again, we get this really cool cubic function. Now, you just saw your first higher order polynomial, in the last quiz. And I think that, we should focus on one of these in particular for right now. Let's look at the graph of y equals x to the 5th minus x. Let's just look at the overall appearance of this function. And then build up some information about polynomial functions in general based on that. We saw a big picture of this graph earlier showing pretty big range on the y axis in a pretty big part of the domain on the x. But now I've zoomed into the middle where some of the most interesting stuff is happening. Remember that the ends of the graph, this way and this way, are just sort of continuing on for a long time in the same direction. So it seems like all the changes are happening in here. Because this is the only area where things are changing, we can split the domain into sections based on what's happening in here. Now I see one change happening right around here. And another change happening right around here. So with these lines I have effectively divided the domain into three chunks. Three different intervals. Now let's label these intervals interval one, interval two, and interval three. It also seems like there are two special points. These two right here. I'll color them in this bright blue color and label them points A and B. These are of course the points where these lines separating the parts the domain from one another intersect the graph of our function. So let's talk about what the graph looks like within each of these intervals and why these two points are special. Now first of all, can you tell me in which of these intervals the graph is increasing? And which of them the graph is decreasing. And second which of these two points is a relative maximum and which one is a relative minimum? The graph is increasing in intervals one and three. And the graph is decreasing only in between them in interval two. The graph reaches a relative maximum at point A and reaches a relative minimum at point B. Now let's think about what another graph that we've already seen before looked like in general. Here's y equals x cubed. A very basic cubic function. Now on the left hand side over here, is the graph of this function coming down from up high or is it coming up from down low? And on the right is it rising up high or is it falling down low? On the left hand side the function is increasing so that means it's coming up from being way down low. And on the right hand side it's increasing as well so it's rising up high. In the previous question we had this polynomial, y equals x cubed, which has an odd degree. It starts really low on the left hand side and then it increases and increases until it's ending up high on the right side. Now what if instead of a polynomial was an odd degree like this one? We have one with an even degree, like this one, y equals x to the 4th. Tell me about this graph on the left hand side over here. Is it coming from up high or is it coming from down low? It's coming from up high. It starts way high on the left side of the graph, goes down as we follow it to the right, and then goes back up. We'll talk about why this happens in the next video. Lets analysis for a second why this graph has this particular behavior with the ends pointing in the same direction on either side up really, really high. To do that I like you to form this x, y table for this function y equals x to the 4, now you notice that the x values over here are ordered in a little bit familiar each of these pairs of numbers one is just the negative version of the previous one I think you'll see why in just a second. I'd actually recommend doing most of these calculations by hand so you can see why y is taking on the value that it is. So here are all the y values for these corresponding x values. And we can see that each of these pairs of numbers, where one is just the negative version of the previous one, all have matching y values, despite their opposite signs in x. Let's think about why this is. Well, one way we can rewrite y equals x to the 4th is y equals x squared squared. We can do the same thing for something like y equals x to the 6th. That can be written as y equals x to the 3rd squared. And we know that whenever we're squaring something it's going to involve multiplying that thing by itself. So if what's inside here, like x to the 3rd. In the case of y plus x to the 6th. Is negative, squaring it is going to make it positive. That means that any sine g/ differences in x. Are going to be cancelled out in y. So that helps tell us why, even when we move way over to the left. Way to the negative side of the graph. On the x axis. The general behavior of the graph of a polynomial with an even degree. Is going to match the behavior on the right side, because of that squaring action here. Now, if we had a more complex polynomial here instead of just y equals x to the 4th. The y values to these numbers might not line up exactly. They might not be exactly equal, because of the terms following this. But by the time we move way far out in x. Either positively or negatively. This overall pattern would re-emerge and we'll see the same general behavior on either side of the graph. Now let's go back to something a little bit more familiar, quadratic functions. By looking at the coefficient over here, of our x squared term, either 1 or negative 1, can you tell me which of these graphs matches each of these equations? This graph over here on the left is the graph of y equals negative x squared. As we learned a few lessons ago, when a problem has a negative leading coefficient, it points downward. Both of its ends are reaching toward negative infinity. This other graph over here is representing y equals x squared, with a positive leading coefficient. Note that these graphs are just flipped versions of one-another. You get from this one to this one by just taking this graph and flipping it across the x axis. Now we've already seen the graph of y equals x cubed before it just looked like this. But notice the graph over here on the right side of the screen. Its exaclty the same as this graph just flipped upside down across the x axis. What function do you think this graph represents? This graph represents y equal to negative x to the third. Just like in the previous quiz with the parabola, changing the sign in the leading coefficient simply flips the graph upside down. Note that for y equals x cubed, like we said before, the graph is starting way down low on the left and reaching up way high to the right. Since y equals negative x cubed is going to have all the opposite function values that y equals x cubed has, it starts really high on the left and reaches way down low on the right. Though when we zoom in and look at graphs, we're really only seeing part of the entire representation of the function. We're just zooming in on this little tiny portion of the domain. If we zoom out even just a bit though, we can see that all these changes that are happening in the middle of the graph. Are really just tiny details the overall behavior of the function is determined by what's happening at either end of the graph on the right side and on the left side. We've already learned a lot about the general shape of polynomial functions so let's see if you can apply what you've learned. To work out how each of these graphs will look. For each function I've listed here please tell me what the behavior on the left side of the graph is going to look like. In other words, what direction the graph is coming from? And then also tell me what's happening on the right side of the graph. What direction is the graph pointing in as we move over to the right hand side? You've already seen what the graph of x cubed looks like. So if we made the coefficient at the front of the term 3 instead of 1 but keep it positive the overall behavior will still be the same. It's still going to start low on the left and reach up way high on the right. Since 5 x to the 4th times x squared has an even degree. We know that the left and right side are going to point in the same direction. Since the leading coefficient is positive it's going to start way up high on the left hand side. And then also rise up high on the right hand side. For this function with a negative 2 x to the 5th, since the degree is odd the ends are going to point in opposite directions. And since this leading coefficient is negative, it's going to start up high on the left, and reach way down low on the right. We've just reviewed a bit of new material on the shape of a function and how that's affected by its degree, and also how changing the sign of the coefficient flips the graph over the x axis. Now, I've drawn four different graphs here, and labeled them a, b, c, and d. They represent 4 types of functions which I've listed right here. One of them shows a polynomial with an even degree and a positive leading coefficient. One shows a polynomial with an even degree and a negative leading coefficient. Another shows a polynomial with an odd degree and positive leading coefficient. And the last one shows a polynomial with odd degree and a negative leading coefficient. I'd like you to tell me which one of these graphs matches each of these categories. Please put the letter of each graph next to the description over here that it matches. The first two graphs here, which are the ones with even degree, are these two graphs down here. The one with the positive leading coefficient is graph D, the one whose ends are both pointing upward. It's coming from up high on the left and rising up again on the right. B is the graph that has an even degree, but a negative leading coefficient. It's coming up from negative infinity on the left side and dropping back down there again on the right. The top two graphs both have odd degree. Graph A has a negative leading coefficient, since it's starting way up high and then dropping down low on the right. And graph C has a positive leading coefficient, since it's starting low and then rising high. Now, we've looked at the overall shape of a graph, talking about what happens at either end of it. So now we're going to focus back in again on the middle, mainly on the x-intercepts. So here's a graph that you are definitely familiar with, the graph of a parabola. You know three different ways to write the equation of a parabola. But the one we're going to focus on today is its factored form. The function we're concerned with is f of x equals the quantity, x minus 5 times the quantity x plus 3. Just to make sure we're on the same page, what are the x-coordinates of the x- intercepts of the graph of this function? Please fill them in here. There's one x intercept whose x coordinate is negative 3, and there's one whose coordinate is 5. We can see this from the equation as well based on these factors. We know that at the x intercepts the value of this function is 0. So these are the two x values that make either of these factors 0, which then makes the entire expression equal to what would be on the left hand side, 0. Let's press on with this function we were working with before. Now I've talked before about 0's or roots of functions. We know that these are values of x that when substituted into our function make the function itself f of x equal 0. So, for this function in particular If we know that f of a equals 0, then what numbers can a equal? What values can it take on to make this true? Please write your answers in this box and separate them with commas. We know that f of a is what we get if we plug a in the slot of x into our function. So that means that the quantity a minus 5 times the quantity a plus 3 equals 0. If we want to find out what a equals, we just need to solve for a in this equation. There are two ways that this expression right here can equal 0. If either this factor equals 0 or if this factor equals 0. And we just solve these two equations for A. As before we A equals 5 and A equals negative 3. So these are the two roots of this function. They're the two values of X that make F of X equal 0. Let's summarize what we've been talking about for the past few quizzes. We started with a function, f of x equals x minus 5 times x plus 3. We figured out, it's two factors are these two quantities inside parentheses. That told us that the x coordinates of the x intercepts are 5 and negative 3, and these two numbers are the same as the zero's, or the roots of the function. Let's see if we can fill out all this information for a new function. This time we have f of x equals x minus 2 times x plus 7 times x minus 1. Please tell me what the factors of this function are, what the x coordinates of it's x intercepts are and what the 0s are. Notice I've already written an x equals here for you. So, in the zero box, I'd like you to just write, the values that x needs to equal in order for the function to equal zero. In each of these three boxes, please separate your answers by commas. The factors of this polynomial function are each of these expressions that are multiplied together. X minus 2, x plus 7 and x minus 1. The x coordinates and the x intercepts are the numbers we get if we set each of these factors to 0. 2, negative 7 and 1. These are also the numbers that are the zeros. But what does all this information mean for us and mean for the graph of the function? Well we'll figure that out pretty soon. You can start to think about it on your own for now though. Let's consider a new function. We have f of x equals x minus six, times x plus two, times x minus four. I'd like to discuss how to evaluate this function and a few very special points. And this is going to help us figure out how to factor polynomials better. So if we consider this function, then what do we get for f of four? And what do we get for f of negative two? For both of these we get 0. This means then that 4 and negative 2 are both zeros or roots of this function. We've already found two zeros of this function negative 2 and 4. So what is the third zero? Please fill your answer in, in this box. The answer is 6. That's because the last factor we haven't dealt with is x minus 6. If we set x minus 6 equal to 0 then that means that x equals 6. Let's say we have some function f of x. And we know that f of 7 is equal to 0. Then, what's one factor of this function that we can know right off the bat? We know that x minus 7 is going to be a factor. Since if we plug 7 in to this expression it's going to equal 0. Which would make the entire function equal 0. Now let's say we still have a function called f of x but this time we know that f of a equals 0. Then what factor do we know about? If that's the case, then we know that x minus a is a factor of our function. We saw in the last quiz that x minus a is a factor of a function, f of x, if and only if f of a equals 0. So let's take another function as an example to see if this rule that we just figured out really makes sense. If we have f of x equals x squared plus 3 x minus 10. Then what do we get for f of two. Please write that in this box. Now based on your answer here, you may or may not have information that tells you about a factor of f of x. If you think you can figure one of theme out, please write it right here. Remember to find f of two, just replace every x here with a two. When we plug 2 into the function we get 0. Based on the theorem that we came up with on the last quiz that tells us that one of our factors is going to be x minus 2. So far, we've learned what happens when we substitute in special values of x that make the function equal to zero. And we've seen that this connects directly to factors. Now we're going to look at how to find special values, like a in this case. Working backwards from what we have written here, if we could look at a function and find its factors, then we would know these special values. So let's figure out how to do that. Now you already know how to factor quadratic expressions and you had a lot of practice with that earlier in the course. So let's see if we can look at another function and use similar methods to this to find one factor and then figure out what that factor needs to be multiplied by to give us the original function. Let's say we have a function that's already in factored form maybe it's f of x equals x minus 6 times x plus 2 times x minus 4. If this is the case and we decide to multiply this right hand side out, and then simplify, what is the constant term that we'll get? Now what you want to be looking for here is a shortcut to do this. So that you don't have to actually multiply out everything. Think about which combinations of terms here are going to give us just constants. The constant term is going to be 48. And we can actually get this really quickly. Let's think about how. We can start to simplify this by multiplying out the first two sets of parentheses. If we do this, then the first expression we have is going to be x squared minus 4 x minus 12. And then this, of course, is still multiplied by x minus 4. Now to further simplify this, we know that we have to multiply every term in this first set of parentheses by each of the terms over here. So let's think carefully about this for a moment. If we multiply anything over here by x squared, it's going to have a factor of x squared in it. So that's not going to give us a constant. The same is true if we multiply anything by negative 4x, since there are no terms over here that would cancel out that x. Now if instead, we multiply something over here by negative 12, we do have the potential to come up with a constant term. If we multiply negative 12 times x, well, that's going to give us negative 12x. That won't work. It has an x in it. So the last combination of terms is what's going to give us the answer we're looking for, a constant. Negative 12 times negative 4 gives us 48. And remember, this negative 12 came from multiplying the constants in the first 2 expressions that we multiplied together. So the real way we get 48 is by multiplying all of the constants involved in these expressions in the original factored form. Negative 6 times 2 times negative 4 is what gives us 48. So you've seen that the constant turn that we would get if we multiplied this entire right hand side of the equation out, is the product of the constant terms negative six, two and negative four from each of the original factors that we had. So that means that this number 48 here is pretty intimately related to the factors of this polynomial. That means that we should be able to use some information involving 48 to get to the roots of this polynomial. There's gotta be a pretty close connection there. So let's say we have some fourth degree polynomials to add. Maybe it's this one, f of x equals x to the 4th minus 23x squared plus 18x plus 40. And maybe I've also come up with some guesses for how to factor this polynomial. Let me write them down for you. Which of these three choices down here do you think is the correct factorization of this function? Remember to think about what we need in terms of this constant up here. This middle choice, f of x equals x plus 1 times x minus 2 times x plus 5 times x minus 4, is the only one that could be the factorization of this polynomial. Remember that all the constants we have in our original factors must multiply to equal this constant out here, 40. We can double check that 1 times negative 2 times 5 times negative 4 does in fact equal 40. That's not the case for either of these. So how can we use what we've just learned? Well let's say that we have a polynomial like this one that's pretty tough to factor. Here we have y equals x cubed minus 4 x squared plus x plus 6. And I'll say It again. I think this is really hard to factor. So how can we guess what the zeros might be? Remember that's going to tell us what our factors are. Well, we know that the constant terms in the factors need to multiply to equal 6. So, what then are all the factors of 6? Please separate your answers by commas and don't forget the negatives. They're perfectly valid factors, too, as long as they're integers. The factors of six are one, negative 1, 2, negative 2, 3, negative 3, 6 and negative 6. We saw before that x minus a is a factor of f of x if f of a equals 0. So that means we can test the constants that we came up with in the last quiz by substituting them in for x here and seeing which ones of them gives us y equals 0. So that it's clear what we're plugging in, I'm going to switch to function notation up here instead of using y. Let's make this f of x instead. Great, now it'll be very clear what numbers we're plugging in. Let's start with something from down here, maybe one, since that's first in the list. First tell me what f of 1 equals, using this function, and then tell me whether or not that means that x minus 1 is a factor of this function. When we plug in 1 to our function we actually get that f of 1 equals 4. So that means that x minus 1 is not a factor of f of x. Okay, on to a new number. 1 didn't work, so maybe let's count up 1 to 2. What does f of 2 equal? And, does that mean that x minus 2 is a factor of this polynomial or not? When we plug in two to our function we do in fact get zero. So that means that x minus two is a factor of this polynomial. So great, we've found a factor. How does this help us though? Eventually I want to get f of x in it's fully factored form, but what do we do with this single factor that we already know to find out the other factors? Well, let's think. If we have a number like 12 and we know that two is a factor of it. Then if we divide 12 by 2 we get 6.As what we need to multiply by two to get twelve. So that means that all of the other factors must multiply to equal six. Then we can also factor six in to two and three. Those are the other two prime factors of 12. So now we have the full prime factorization of 12. It's just equal to 2 times 2 times 3. So looks like if we divide a number by a factor that's known, then we get a simplified number in this case, or expression in this case that is a product of the leftover factors we're still looking for. That means that we shoudl divide this expression by x minus 2. To get one step closer to figuring out our other factors. But how do we do this. Well, you'll have to wait for the next lesson to find out. Athena has a new problem that she's really stumped by. Her boss at the architecture firm, left her with an important project. Working on the plans for this awesome new building that's going to go on Grant's business property. Now, this building is special because it's a triangular prism. That means that if we look at the building from above, the roof is shaped like a triangle. In this case, it's actually a right triangle. All the faces down here though, are rectangles. Athena worked really hard to come up with an equation for the volume of this building, depending on each of the side lengths. This one, this one and this one. But unfortunately, she had a disaster with a cup of green tea and the sheet of paper she was working on. Now, all that she has left on her paper is the equation for volume in the way that she expressed the length of one side, the height here, which she labeled 2x plus 8. Now, this expression for volume is found by finding the area of the right triangle, that we see here on the roof. And multiplying that by the height. Let me write that out for you. There we go. A nice word equation for you. So, let's see if we can combine all this information together. Given that Athena already figured out this expression for the total volume of the building and she knows that the height is 2x plus 8. And also, if we decide to call the area of this top triangle A, how could you write a new equation, replacing this one in black, that only involves the variables X and A? Just use these new expressions for volume, height and area and put them in the proper places, as shown in this block equation. First things first, we replace the volume here with this cubic expression. Then the area is just capital A, and then the height is just 2 x plus 8. And that is our brand new equation. Wonderful. What Athena really wants to do now is to find the area of this triangle that we saw at the top of the building. This quantity a in our new equation for volume. But how? Well, her life would be made much easier if she didn't have to worry about this side length that's tacked onto the right side of the equation, 2x plus 8. Now, if we want to get rid of this factor of 2x plus 8 on the right hand side. What should we do to that equation? Should we subtract 2x plus 8 from the right-hand side? Should we subtract it from both sides? Should we divide the right-hand side by 2x plus 8, or should be divide both sides by this factor? We need to divide both sides by 2x plus 8. Right now, this factor is multiplied in on the right hand side. So, we need to divide by it to get rid of it. However, we know that we need to do the same thing to both sides of our equation to keep a statement of equivalence. Once we do that, A will be all alone on the right hand side. Now we are going to leave this problem for this moment and you will get to solve it yourself in the practice problems We've been doing a lot of multiplication in this course, especially multiplying polynomials together. We've seen that we can take linear factors, multiply them together and produce more complicated polynomials. With Athena's situation though, we're starting off with a complicated polynomial. In order to make it simple and find all of its factors, we need to figure out how to divide a polynomials. In the last lesson, we left off with dealing with this function, f of x equals x cubed minus 4 x squared plus x plus 6. We had found that 2 is a zero of this function, since when we substitute it in, the entire function comes to equal 0. From this we learned, from the factor theorem, that x minus 2 must be a factor of the polynomial. So we're one step on our way to writing f of x in fully factored form. We know that eventually we'll be able to write it as x minus 2 times a bunch of other stuff. But what is that other stuff? Well, to find it, we're going to need to divide this expression by x minus 2. In particular we are going to use long division. That's what we'll look at next. We'll set up our long division problem like this. We write the thing that we want to divide, underneath here, and the thing want to divide it by out here. Now, let's start by thinking how many times x minus 2 can go into the first term over here, the one with the highest degree. So, how many times can x minus 2 go into x cubed? To make things a little bit easier, let's only consider the x here, since the degree of x is higher than the degree of 2. So what do we need to multiple x by to get x cubed? Please put the answer right here. x goes into x cubed x squared times. Or in other words, x times x squared equals x cubed. Now what do we get if we multiply this entire quantity x minus 2 times what we wrote up here, x squared? Please write your answer in this box, and make sure that you write it in standard form for polynomials. So in other words write the highest degree term here and then the next highest here and so on and so forth. Multiplying x squared times x minus two gives us x cubed minus two x squared. Now we need to subtract this quantity we just wrote down here, from what is written above. So what is s cubed minus 4 x squared minus the quantity x cubed minus 2 x squared. Please write your answer down here. Note that setting up the problem this way, makes subtraction very easy, since like terms are lined up. Just be careful about our minus sign out here and the signs inside All we get down here is negative 2 x squared. Our x cubeds gets cancelled out, and then negative 4 x squared minus a negative 2 x squared is the same as adding positive 2 x squared. The next step is to bring down this x. So down here, for the expression, we're dividing by x minus 2 next, we're going to have negative 2 x squared plus x. We know, though, we only need to look at the first term here and the first term here. So, what do we need to multiply x by to get negative 2 x squared? Please write your answer in this box. We need to write a negative 2x here, since negative 2x times x gives us negative 2x squared. Now, to figure out what we should write down here, we just need to multiply the quantity x minus 2 times negative 2x. What is that product? Negative 2 x times the quantity x minus 2, gives us the negative 2 x squared plus 4 x. Now we need to complete the subtraction. What do we get for negative 2x squared plus x minus the quantity negative 2x squared plus 4x? The difference is negative three x. The next step is to bring down the 6. So that we have negative 3x plus 6, right here. Now, how many times does x go into negative 3x? Please write your answer's in this box. x goes into negative three x negative three times. Now, what is negative three times x minus 2? Type your answer here. We get negative three x plus six. Now last but not least, what do we get when we subtract these two quantities? What is negative 3x plus 6 minus the entire quantity negative 3x plus 6? We get 0. Those are the two quantities inside the parentheses over here are the same. Anything minus itself is equal to 0. Based on this long division we just did then, we can see that we divide x cubed minus 4x squared plus x plus 6, by x minus 2, we get what we wrote up here. x squared minus 2x minus 3. I wonder then, if there's a new way that we can write this original expression, the one we started out with. So, think about what we could do to both sides of this equation right here, to get our original expression, the cubic polynomial, by itself on the left hand side. What that would be on the right hand side of the equation? This will be a new way of expressing what we have on the left. Since we're dividing by x minus 2 over here, and that's the only thing that's keeping the cubic polynomial from being by itself. We just need to multiply it by both sides of the equation by the quantity x minus 2. On the left-hand side, we'll be left with what we're trying to look for. And on the right-hand side, we'll have x minus 2 times x squared minus 2x minus 3. Now that we know that f of x is equal to x minus 2 times x squared minus 2x minus 3, let's see if can go from here to writing the function in its fully factored form. Lucky for us, we know how to factor x squared minus 2x minus 3. So, please factor this and write the two factors in these two boxes. That will give us the fully factored form of f of x. One of these factors needs to be x minus three, and the other needs to be x plus one. Now let's do some long division practice. What is 2 x cubed minus x squared minus 19 x plus 12 divided by x minus 3? Please write your answer in here. And remember to write it in the standard form for polynomials. In order of descending degrees, starting with the highest. When we carry out this long division, we end up with 2 x squared plus 5 x minus 4. And of course, we use the same method we did in the previous examples. I'd like you to keep getting more practice using long division, so let's do this problem as well. This time we're starting out with x cubed minus 1, and I'd like us to divide that by x minus 1. How do you write this using long division though? Well, you might think it would be this way, like before all I've done is taken the thing we want to divide, written our lovely long division surrounding it. And then written the thing we want to divide it by outside. This isn't going to work quite right in this situation of this polynomial though. Here's why. We only have two terms here, but this is a cubic polynomial. With other cubic's we've worked with, we've had a term for every single power starting with the highest power and descending. This time we don't have an x squared term and we don't have an x term. In order to do long division properly though, we still need to leave slots for those terms In the expression that we start out with. Instead we're going to need to write the polynomial like this. Note that by writing 0x squared and 0x for the x squared and x terms, we're not changing the value of the original expression we had underneath the division sign. But we are still leaving room for the terms of these powers. Now we're in great shape to do our division. So let's do it! Please write your final answer in this box. When we go through this long division we end up with x squared plus x plus 1. You'll remember that you actually have seen this problem before when you learned how to factor, we learned a rule for factoring difference of cubes. We learned that x cubed minus 1 is equal to x minus 1 times x squared plus x plus 1. Now we just proved that rule, awesome. Thinking about what we did in the last quiz, if instead we wanted to solve x cubed plus 1 divided by x plus 1, and use long division to do it, how should we set up the problem? What should we write here under the long division sign and what should we write outside? Underneath the division sign, we need to leave room for the x squared and x terms, even though their coefficients are zero. So, we'll write x cubed plus zero x squared, plus zero x plus 1. The x plus 1 doesn't need any changing at all. We can just write it as is outside the division sign. Now that we've set up our problem, please solve it using long division. When we go through the steps of long division, we end up with x squared minus x plus 1 as our answer. Again, this matches a rule that we learned earlier when we were factoring. We learned that x cube plus 1 is equal to x plus 1 times x squared minus x plus 1. And that's exactly what you found here. All we're doing this time is dividing both sides of this equation by x plus 1. That's pretty cool. In all the long division problems we've done so far, we've gotten really nice clean answers. Because we have gotten answers that don't have a remainder. We've gotten a zero when we complete our final subtraction step down here. Now, the reason this happened for every division we've done so far is that, each of the things we've divided our original polynomials by, have been factors of those first polynomials. When we divide by a factor, there's nothing left over from the original expression that this doesn't go into. Well, what happens if we divide by something that isn't a factor? Well, then we get some number down here instead of zero. Whatever number we get down here is, as I said before, called the remainder. But if the remainder isn't equal to zero, we have some more stuff to think about. Let's see what happens. Earlier on, we were working with the function f of x equals x cubed minus 4 x squared plus x plus 6. Now, when we were looking for roots, or zeroes, we tried to see what happens when we let x equal 1. We found out that plugging that in gave us 4. Since when we plug this in we don't get 0, we know that 1 is not a 0 of this polynomial. And that means, in turn, that x minus 1 is not a factor. I wonder what would happen then, if we divide this polynomial by x minus 1? Let's find out. Here I've written out all the different boxes you're going to need to fill in to complete this long division. So please, write what belongs in each one, and then write your final answer up here. Please note that I've put subtraction signs and then parentheses around boxes. So make sure that you write the expression that belongs inside here, given that the subtraction sign is outside. Also, don't forget to bring down your x and your 6 from the original expression. When we carry out this long division, what we end up with up here, is x squared minus 3 x minus 2. And note that down here, in our remainder spot, we have a 4 this time instead of a 0. This is proof that x minus 1 is not a factor of this polynomial. Since we have a 4 left over, this doesn't go into our original expression evenly. So one thing that's really interesting to note here, is that, the remainder that we got, when we divided x cubed minus 4 x squared plus x plus 6 by x minus 1, is the same as the number that we got when we plugged 1 in for x in this function. That's pretty interesting. This would be a pretty incredible coincidence, if it weren't actually caused by something. You'll also remember that, when we plugged in 2 to our function, we ended up with 0, and we know that x minus 2 is a factor, so if we divided by x minus 2, we would get 0 as a remainder. Seems like remainders in the numbers we get, when we plug in different values for a function, are very closely connected. Let's keep going with this idea. So, what will the remainder be if we divide the function we've been working with, instead, by x plus 3? Think for a second about what to do. And now, I'll give you a hint. Why don't you see what happens if you just find f of negative 3. You can still think about the connection we were seeing before, between remainders and plugging numbers into the function. And then if you want to, double check by doing the long division. If we plug negative 3 into the function for x, we end up with negative 60 as a value of the function. So this should be, based on what we've seen before, the remainder that we get and we divide this by x plus 3. Let's see if it actually works. And, sure enough, completing our long division, we get a remainder of negative 60. Now, the general form of what we've been seeing is called the Remainder Theorem. Over all, the remainder theorem tells us that the remainder we'll get when we divide a function f by x minus a is going to be equal to f of a. Exactly what we get when we plug in a for the value of x into the function. Now, their remainder actually has really interesting implications for graphs. We'll see that when we let a function equal the division of two polynomials and their remainder is not equal to zero we get some pretty cool graphs. We'll end up seeing things like this. The remainder's instantly involved in the way that the curve breaks into these different pieces. We'll come back to that later, though. We don't need to worry about this for now. When the coefficient of the highest degree term in a polynomial isn't one we need to take some extra steps to be sure that we're factoring correctly. First things first you should always look for a common factor between all of the terms in the expression. So here for example we have f of x equals 10x squared Minus 30x minus 40. This might look kind of hard to factor but if we notice that there's a common factor that we can take out first, the rest of the function will be much more easy to factor. So what is the greatest common factor that is shared by all three terms on the right hand side of this equation. Note that I'm abbreviating greatest common factor as GCF. Please write that number in this box. The common factor shared by all these trends is ten. Let's finish factoring the right-hand side of the equation. I've given you a few boxes to fill in to help you out. So, just write in what belongs in each box. The last step is going to be the fully factored form. The first step is to pull a factor of 10 out from each term. So, that gives us 10 times x squared minus 3x minus 4. All we need to do now is factor what's inside the parentheses here. When we do that, we get 10 times x minus 4 times x plus 1. Great, we are fully factored. Now, what if we have something like this function? f of x equals 6x squared minus 7x minus 5. Once again, our leading coefficient, the coefficient of the highest degree term, is not equal to 1. It's 6. Unfortunately, this time, our situation's not as easily solvable as last time. We can't just factor out a 6 from each of our terms, since it's not a common factor. Well, what do we do now? I'll tell you already what the factors are. There 2x plus 1 and 3x minus 5. But how do we find those? That's what we're going to look at next. We just saw that the expression 6x squared minus 7x minus 5 factors to 2x plus 1 times 3x minus 5. Now, check out the colors that I've used here for the different terms. And notice how the terms that are the same colors in the top expression and the one below it are related. The negative 5 here, comes straight from the positive 1 and the negative 5. And the 6 here, comes from the 2 and 3. 2 and 3 are factors of 6 and -5 and 1 are both factors of -5. Now, can you tell me based on our factorization, what are the zeros of this function? As always, please separate your answers in this box by commas. There are two 0sfor this function, one at x equals negative 1 half, and one at x equals 5 over 3. So we use the factored form of our polynomial function to find its zeros. And interestingly enough both of these zeros were ratios. But where did these ratios come from? They're in a very specific form. I'll give you two options. Are each of these zeros a ratio of A factor of negative 5 over a factor of 6 or a factor of 6 over a factor of negative 5. Remember that 6 and negative 5 here are coming straight from our original function. Both 0s are in the form over a factor of negative 5 over a factor of 6. Now in fact, every time we have a polynomial function that has rational zeros, we can be sure that whatever those zeros are, they'll be in this form. They'll be the ratio of a factor of a constant term at the end of the expression, divided by a factor of the leading coefficient. The coefficient of the highest degree term. This looks like a super useful fact, and it's so useful that it has a special name. It's called the rational zero theorem. Now, we're going to have to add one little addendum to this rule in a second. But, first, let's just look at it as it is. This is an incredibly powerful tool. It's going to help us narrow down the zeros that we think a polynomial function could have, from an infinite number of possible numbers. All the rational numbers, to only numbers that fit this form. It's going to make our lives a ton easier. Why don't we try an example using this rational zero theorem? Let's say we have this function. f of x equals 4 x squared minus 4 x plus 1. Now, I know that, based on the rational zero theorem, any rational zero of this polynomial must be a factor of 1 divided by a factor of 4. Since 1 is the constant term in the expression, and 4 is the leading coefficient. Well, 1 has factors of just 1 and negative 1. And four has factors of 1 and 4, and also their negatives. And also 2 and negative 2. Can you tell me then, what the possible ratios of factors of 1, or of factors of 4 are? These are the possible rational zeros that the rational zero theorem says that this function can have. I'll give you one more hint. There are six different fractions that we should get. As always, please separate these answers by commas. When we think about the possible ratios we could obtain, we get the following. We could take 1 over 1, and that would give us 1. We could also take negative 1 over 1. And that would give us negative 1. 1 over 4 gives us, well, 1 4th. 1 over negative 4 gives us negative 1 4th. And you'll notice that if we do negative 1 over 4, we get negative 1 4th again. And negative 1 over negative 4 gives us positive 1 4th again. So because we have both a positive and negative versions of each number in each set of factors, we're going to have a lot of overlapping factors. This is convenient, because it means that we'll get less in the end than it looks like we would get. The last two possible rational zeros are one half and negative one half. Now, we know exactly how to check whether each of these numbers down here actually is a zero of this function. We just need to substitute each one in for x. And see which of these values give us f of x equals zero. Let's check the easy ones first. The first two on the list. 1 and negative 1. So, please tell me whether negative 1 and 1 are each zeros of this function. Just answer yes or no for each one. And the answer to each of these questions is no. If we plug in negative 1 into our function, we get 9. And if we plug in 1, we get 1. Neither one of these numbers is 0, so that means neither one of these values of x is a root or a 0. So you just checked 1 and negative 1 off our list of possible rational zeros for this function. We know that neither one of these works. So let's move o to one of our next four possibilities. Why don't we try out one half? Is one half a root or a zero of this function? Well, to figure this out, we just need to plug 1 half into our function in place of x. And yes, in fact, we do get that f of 1 half equals 0. So this is a 0, or a root of this function. Awesome. Now that we found that 1/2 is a zero, we can say that x minus 1/2 is a factor of this polynomial. But really, we want our factors to have integer coefficients. And negative 1/2 is not an integer. I wonder if there's a way we could rewrite this, so that this factor gives us the same zero. But it does have integer coefficients. So what factor then gives us the same route as X minus 1/2 does but as integer coefficients and is still a factor of F of X equals 4X squared minus 4X plus 1. Please fill in the integers in these boxes. One more little tidbit for you to think about; When we had a route of X equals 5 over 3 the factor that corresponded to it was 3X minus 5. The root that we need is 2x minus 1. We can get this by multiplying each term here by 2. The denominator of our fraction over here. If we set this equal to zero, we can double check that it gives us the same root. And, sure enough, it still gives us a zero of x equals 1/2. Awesome. So now, we have one factor of f of x equals 4x squared minus 4x plus 1. We know that it's 2x minus 1. How can we find the other? Well, we can use long division. So, carry out this division using long division. Write your answer in this box. When we do this long division problem, we get 2x minus 1. And as expected, we get a remainder of 0. Since we knew that 1 half was a 0 of this polynomial, and that 2x minus 1 was a factor. Pretty cool. So reflecting on the long division problem we just did in the last quiz, how can the results of this problem give us a new way to rewrite the polynomial we started out with? 4x squared minus 4x plus 1. Can you write this instead as the product of two polynomials? Now just so you know I would like you not to write 1 and then this expression as the two polynomials. Pick two new polynomials. 4x squared minus 4x plus 1 is just equal to 2x minus 1 times 2x minus 1. Since when we divided it by 2x minus 1, we got 2x minus 1. We could check those by multiplying everything out. And sure enough, it works, wonderful. This time, if we have the function 6x cubed minus 17x squared plus 11x minus 2, then do you think that x equals 2 over 6 is a 0? Please answer yes or no. When we plug in 2 over 6 to our function, we do in fact get 0. So yes, 2 over 6 is a 0. Now that we found that 2 over 6 is a zero of this function, does that mean that one of it's factors is 6x minus 2? Please tell me yes if you agree that this follows the pattern of previous relationships between zeros and factors, or tell me no if you think that the fact that 6x minus 2 is divisible by 2 But 6x cubed minus 17x squared plus 11x minus 2, is not as a problem. And the answer is no. This is a really great reason, and a really great thing to think about. If 6x minus 2 were a factor, then we could rewrite this expression as follows. We could write it as 6x minus 2 times a bunch of other things. But then, that would mean that we could rewrite it as 2 times 3x minus 1, times a bunch of other things. Since this expression is not divisible by 2, or in other words, since we can't pull factor of 2 out of every single term here, that means 6x minus 2 can't be a factor of f of x. We know that x equals 2 over 6 is a zero of this function, but we need to notice that 2 over 6 is not a fraction in simplest terms. It's a fraction that can be reduced. Both 2 and 6 have a factor of 2 in them. So this fraction is actually just equal to 1 3rd. This means that 1 3rd is actually a 0 of f of x. Now that we know that x equals 1 3rd is a 0, what factor of this polynomial do we know about? Please fill in the proper integers in these boxes. Three x minus one is the factor we are looking for. Let's summarize what we've learned in the past few quizzes. We can finally fill in the last detail of our rational zero theorem. If some polynomial, f of x has, rational zeros, then they will be of the form x equals plus or minus a positive factor of the constant term of f of x, over a positive factor of the leading coefficient of f of x. Now if we call this rational zero p over q, then p and q only have a common factor of 1. In other words, we have to write these zeros as fractions in lowest terms, or in simplest form. So, as we saw in the previous quiz, instead of having 2 over 6, we need to write 1 over 3 instead, or else we'll mess up our factors. Provided that these requirements are met, especially that p over q is in simplest terms, then q x minus p will be a factor of f of x. You'll have plenty of opportunities to practice using the rational zero theorem in our question section, after this lesson. Great job. In the last few lessons, we've looked at graphs of functions and talked about how they behave. We've seen some zeroes of functions that are integers, and some that are fractions. But, what if we can't find x intercepts using methods that we've already learned? What if, for example, our roots are irrational? How can we estimate where they are? That's what were going to look at next. It is being a while since we were with Athena. So let us get back to talking about her life. Now Athena lives in California, in the Bay area to be exact. To tell a more about you, here is the Pacific Ocean and here is West of California. Here is San Francisco Bay. It is a pretty beautiful area to live in. And she goes to school in Saint Jose Bay right down here. And all of these little cities lie right along the bay now, sometimes Athena likes to take a non-stop train from San Jose, all the way up to San Francisco, which is this northern city right here. Along the train line, which I have drawn in red right here, are a bunch of other stations. Including Sunnyvale, Mount View, Palo Alto, Redwood City, San Mateo and Millbrae. So, let me ask you a question. If Athena wants to take that nonstop train starting in San Jose and going all the way up to San Francisco, which stations must the train pass through along the way? Remember the red path here is the train track. It doesn't branch off anywhere. it just follows this path exactly. There are ways you may have over thought this question, but I wasn't trying to be tricky here. The truth is that to go from San Jose all the way to San Francisco, we have to pass through every single one of these stations listed here, since their all along the path. That makes perfect sense. They're in between the starting point and the ending point. So to go from here to here, we have to pass through what's in between. So, how can we tie this to our graph? Well, the train track is in one piece. The train can't just jump from station to station, because it can't leave this track. Similarly, all of the graphs that we've looked at so far are also in one piece, with no breaks. When a graph is like this one, and has no brakes in it. But, it's, rather, one piece connecting two points together. What can we say about the range of that function? So, looking at this graph over here in particular. What numbers can we say are in the range of this function? Does it only contain the numbers, negative 8 and 4? Does it contain all of the integers between negative 8 and 4? Does is span the entire interval from negative 8 to 4, but doesn't include those end points? Does it span that entire interval and include the points negative 8 and 4? Or does it contain all the real numbers? Please pick what you think is the best answer. The answer is, this interval. Negative 8 to 4 with the end points included. If we look along the y axis here, we can see that any horizontal line we drew going from y equals negative 8 all the way up to y equals 4, would pass through this line. In other words, all of the y values that lie between negative 8 and 4 have corresponding x values on this curve. In other words, if we get from this value of y, 4, down to this value of y, negative 8, and of course our curve has no breaks in it. Then we must have passed through every single y value along the way. Now, is this also true for this graph? Do the curves you see here pass through every y value between negative 8 and 8? No. We can see that there's a break in the function right here. And we have this open space right around here, which looks like it's going from about negative 1 just up passed 0. For which no points on the function have those y values. We've seen now that if the graph of a function doesn't have any breaks in it, then the curve is going to pass through all the y values that lie between the y value of the starting point and the y value of the ending point of whatever region of the graph that we're looking at. This concept has a special name. It's called the intermediate value theorem. Now, let's say that all we know about the two end points of this curve, which I've now labeled A and B, is that the y-coordinate of point A is a negative. And the y-coordinate of point B is positive. If that's the case, then what is the one value of y that we know the curve has to pass through between point A and point B? There's only one that we can be completely sure of. Think carefully about this. Some point must have a y value of 0 along this line. 0 is the number that separates the negative numbers from the positive numbers. And since we know that y is negative at A, but positive at B, it has to be 0 somewhere in between. The Intermediate Value Theorem gives us some really fundamental information then, about how to find zeros in curves without breaks in them. We just need to look for regions of the graph where y values switch from being positive to being negative, or from being negative to being positive. In either case, the curve must have at least one x intercept somewhere in that region that we're looking at. This is pretty general information, though. And the intermediate value theorem can actually help us even more. In fact, Athena used it on the train in a very clever way. One day, Athena needed to catch the train in Mountain View. She had been visiting the Udacity office for the afternoon. Now, to find out what time her train would leave, she called her brother, Nicos. All he could tell her was that the train would come to Mountain View sometime between 4pm and 6pm. This information wasn't quite accurate enough for Athena. She wanted to be able to plan her afternoon a bit more precisely. So she looked up the schedule for the train. Much to Athena's disappointment, somehow, the one departure time that was missing from the train schedule was the time that the train would leave Mountain View. We have the times for every other stop listed, and the stops are written in order here, just like we saw on the map earlier. Staring in San Jose and then moving north along the track. Based on this schedule, Athena knows a window of time within which the train will leave from Mountain View. What is that window? The train will leave the Mountain View station sometime between 4:58 and 5:16, since the Mountain View station is between the Sunnyvale and Palo Alto stations. In the last quiz, Athena at first, had a two hour window of time in which she knew the train would leave the mountain view station. Niko also told her it was sometime between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. That was a pretty big window. Then, with more information from the train schedule, she narrowed down that window to this tiny little yellow one, right here. Between just before 5 and just around 5:15. The schedule then, is going to help her guess a lot better when the train's going to leave. And we can imagine that if she had even more information about the trains travel from Sunnyvale to Palo Alto, she could narrow down this window even more. We can use this same method of starting zoomed out. And then, zooming in, closer and closer, to help estimate the location of zeros that don't occur at fractional or rational values of x. These are irrational zeros. So, here on the graph, for example, you can see that y is negative down here. But it's positive up here. We know that somewhere in this general region, there's a point where y equals 0. We can find that exact point by zooming in closer and closer. Let's pick a polynomial function to play with so we can see how the intermediate value theorem actually works. I've chosen y equals x cubed minus 3, and its graph pretty zoomed in looks like this. Notice the labels on our y axis and on our x axis. Now which integer values of x does the zero here lie between? Between one and two. You can see that it crosses right here and these are the integers surrounding that point. This time, the lines on the x axis of the graph are separating every tenth. In other words, we're stepping up by 0.1 with every line. Considering this, and our zoomed in version here, what values of x does the 0 seem to lie between now? It lies between 1.4 and 1.5. Once again, I've zoomed in even further. And now the lines along the x axis, these vertical lines, mark every 1/100th, or 0.01. So, I'll ask you again, with this new version of the graph, and this new level of precision. What values of x does this zero lie between? The 0 lies between 1.44 and 1.45. Now remember, we started out just knowing that the 0 was between 1 and 2. That's a pretty huge range, considering how precise, or how accurate, we've gotten now. So the more information we have, the better the intermediate value theorem can help us, come up with a really close answer, or a really close approximation for x. Let's look at another polynomial function. This time, we have f of x equals x to the 4th minus x cubed minus 3. Now, on your own piece of paper, I'd like you to sketch the graph of this function. For the part of the domain where x lies between negative 3 and 3. And please include those end points. Now, did you actually sketch the graph? Please tell me yes or no. I hope that you checked yes. Sketching graphs on your own is great practice for understanding functions and helping your hand get in the practice of drawing smooth curves. Your graph should have looked something like this. Now that we have an idea of what this function looks like, let's fill out an x f of x chart for it. Please put in the corresponding values of the function here, for these values of the independent variable. And here are the values of the function. Based on the table we made in the last quiz, we can determine intervals in which the two x-intercepts we can see in this part of the graph lie. So, we have one x-intercept on the left, right around here, and one x-intercept to the right, right around here. Please use the values of x from the table to tell me the intervals in which you know that these x-intercepts have to lay. Don't forget the intermediate value theorem. Think about how we have to use that in this problem. The first sign change in f of x that we see on the table, happens between the x values of negative 2 and negative 1. Since f of x between these 2x values is moving from 21 to negative 1. So, we see that over here on the graph from it dropping from this positive value in f of x to the negative value. That means there must be an x intercept between negative 2 and negative 1. The x intercept up to the right, we can see on the table, must happen between 1 and 2 on the x axis. Since f of x here is switching from negative 3 and when x equals 1 to 5 when x equals 2. I know that we have seen that there are two zeroes in this part of the graph, but let's just pick one of them to focus us on. How about the right most one? Which we knows in the interval 1 to 2. Now that we have chosen us here to focus us on, we want to start narrowing down the interval that we knows the zero lies between. In other words, we are going to start zooming in on this portion of the graph. To do this, I'd like you to first pick a value of x that lies between that interval, between 1 and 2. Type that here. And then, plug that value of x into the function and write what f of x at your value is equal to. Now, remembering that the function is negative when x equals 1. But it's positive when x equals 2. Narrow down the interval in x in which the zero must lie. So, the value of your function is negative, then the new interval will be your x value and 2. But if the function is positive at your x value, then the new interval will be between one and your value. Take a little time and think carefully about this. In the last quiz, we narrowed down the interval in which zero lies to be between 1.5 and 2. To narrow this down even further, first, test the value of the function when x equals 1.7. Then, determine whether the zero is going to lie in the interval from 1.5 to 1.7 or from 1.7 to 2. Remember that the function is negative when x equals 1.5, and it's positive when x equals 2. The value of the function is positive when x equals 1.7. So that means we know that the zero must lie between 1.5 and 1.7. Now, since I'm super picky, as you know. I really would like our interval width to be just 1/10 instead of 2/10 like it is right now. So what value of x should we check next in our function? Please fill that in here. Once you've figured that out, please fill that value in to these two boxes right here, to show the two different possible intervals we would have using that x value. Then pick which region of the graph the zero actually lies in. If we want an interval width of 1 10th, we need to choose the value that's 1 10th away from 1.5 and 1 10th away from 1.7. That value is 1.6. So, our new intervals then are going from 1.5 to 1.6, and then from 1.6 to 1.7. Now, the value of the function at 1.6 is negative. So, that means our zero must lie between 1.6 and 1.7 since we know that the function is positive at 1.7. So, what have we done? Well, we started out with a big graph of this function, this quartic function. And we were able, through testing different values of x and f of x to zoom in on one of the zeros of that function. We've narrowed down it's location to a really small interval. An interval of just 1 10th. That's really tiny, considering we started out looking at the domain going from negative 3 to 3. We can see how powerful the intermediate value theorem really is. Grant has convinced Athena to help him out with some of the the Gleaming Glasses business stuff. He's given her yet another new equation, that he says is going to describe the profit the company will make, if he invests x thousands of dollars in advertising. So we have P of x equals x cubed minus 20 x squared plus 118 x minus 164. Grant wants to figure out how much money he needs to spend on advertising to make some sort of profit, but he also wants to avoid spending too much money, so much that it would drain all of his profit away. In other words, Athena needs to figure out, for what values of x does this equation P of x equals 0. In other words, Athena is looking for routes of this function. We're not quite ready to help her answer this question yet though. Let's backtrack for a second. First off, can you tell me what the minimum number of real zeros this function has to have is? Think critically about what kind of polynomial this is. And the answer is 1. Since the 2n's of a polynomial function with an odd degree, like this cubic one right here, need to point in opposite directions. Either one pointing to negative infinity, and the other to positive infinity, or vice versa. The curve has to pass through the x-axis at least once. Let's try to find the zeros then. We can use the rational zero theorem to come up with some ideas for what our zeros might be. So what are all of the possible rational zeros this test tells us about. Please write them in this box and separate them by commas. Don't forget the negative numbers. To use the rational zero theorem, we first need to find all the factors of negative 164 and positive 1. Well, 1 is easy. We just have 1 and negative 1. There are a few more for negative 164. We have 1, 2, 4, 41, 82, 164 and the negative versions of all of those numbers. Now that we have two sets of factors, all we need to do is take one factor from this batch and divide it by one of the factors from over here. Now, since all the factors on this right, that we are going to be dividing by, are just 1 and negative 1, the only ratios you would end up with are all of the numbers over here. So, there we go, we have the list we were looking for. Even though this is still a lot of numbers, it's way fewer than the infinite number we were thinking about before, when we had no idea what the roots were. Here's a list then of some of the possible rational zeros that we came up with in the last quiz. In fact this is just the positive versions. Starting at the top of this list and then working down, please plug in each of these values of x into the function. And oops, I made a mistake. I accidentally wrote f of x instead of P of x. Remember it's super important to keep the names of our functions straight so that we know what functions we're talking about, but everyone makes mistakes including me. Once you've found the value of the function at each of these X values please evaluate whether or not it's a zero. If P of X does equal zero then please type O Y in the zero column, but if it doesn't type and N. Since some of these numbers are pretty big I'm going to make your life a little bit easier. As soon as you type a y into the zero column, you can stop. We're just trying to find which x value is the first zero. Or at least the first zero on this list. That will be enough information for us to continue simplifying this function, and figuring out more information that we need. When x equals 1, I find that P of x equals negative 65. Since this isn't equal to 0, 1 must not be a 0 of this function. Let's check out 2. Sure enough, when we plug in 2 for x, we get a value for the function of 0. That means we can put a y in the rightmost column and, lucky for us, stop working. We found our first 0 on this list. Now that we've found one zero, which we know is now at x equal 2, let's see if we can find some more. In order to do that, we're going to need to divide this polynomial by some factor that's associated with this route we just found. So please tell me then, what linear factor produces a zero at x equals 2? Type your answer in this box. The factor we're looking for is x minus 2, since we know that if we set this equal to 0, that would lead us to x equaling 2. That means this is the factor we're going to need to divide this polynomial by. Let's do that division then. Please use polynomial long division to divide x cubed minus 20x squared plus 118x minus 164 by x minus 2. Write your answer in this lovely green box. The answer we get when we divide is x squared minus 18x plus 82. And sure enough, we have a remainder of 0, showing that 2 really is a zero of this function. So we've already factored out an x minus 2 from our original polynomial, which leaves us with this quadratic expression, x squared minus 18 x plus 82. Now to find the last two factors of this cubic function we started out with, we need to find the factors of what we have left over, this new second degree expression. Now, it doesn't look like we can just factor this. Considering I don't know anything that multiplies to 82, but adds to negative 18. So, I think we should use a quadratic formula. Remember that if we label the coefficients of a quadratic expression, a, b and c, then we can find zeros of that expression using this formula. I'll just leave it down here so you can use it in the problem. So please do exactly what we were just discussing. Use the quadratic formula to find the roots of x squared minus 18 x plus 82. Enter one of them in this box and one of them in this box. Going through all the steps of the quadratic formula gives us 9, plus or minus i. Or, in other words, our zeroes are 9 plus i and 9 minus i. Interesting. So I guess that cubic functions, like the one we started out with, can have imaginary zeros too. That's pretty cool. Think for a second about what this means for the graph of Grant's profit function. Now Athena is well equipped to answer Grant's question. How many break even points are there? Remember, a break even point is just a point on the graph, where profit or P of x equals 0. Please fill in the number of those spots right here. Then, please tell me what the value of x is at each of these break even points. Separate your answers by commas. We can figure this out by looking at the roots, or the zeros of this function. We found before that they were 2, 9 plus i and 9 minus i. Now, these breakeven points are going to be actual points on the graph. And remember, since our graph is only plotting real values of x and real values of y, 9 plus i and 9 minus i, are not actual x values on the graph. That means the only real x intercept is at x equals 2. So there's only one break even point, and as I just said the value of x at that point is 2. Now remember, x in this equation, stood for thousands of dollars spent on advertising. So Grant doesn't just need to spend $2 to break even, he needs to spend $2,000. He'd probably rather spend two but unfortunately, advertising is pretty expensive. Athena and Grant have shown us that all sorts of polynomials, not just quadratics, can have imaginary zeroes. So now we found zeros that are integers, rational numbers, approximated numbers, and even zeros to the imaginary parts. I think it would be a good idea if at this point we took a step back, and talked about how all these different kinds of zeros can work together to build up a single polynomial function. Remember, a polynomials zeros, factors in degree, are all very closely related to one another. Here are two functions and the graphs that go along with each of them. For each of these graphs, I would like you to fill in the proper numbers to complete the sentence that goes along with it. In other words please tell me for each one how many linear factors and how many zeros it has and what degree it is Function A, f of x equals x minus 2 times x minus 1, has two linear factors, which we can see right here, two zeros, which we see with these 2 x intercepts, and is degree 2. Interesting. Function B, which is f of x equals x minus 2 times x minus 1 times x plus 3, has three linear factors, three zeros, and is degree 3. Now, please note that, even though I pointed out the x intercepts on these graphs when we talked about zeroes, if the zeroes were non real, then we wouldn't see them as x intercepts. But they would still be roots. I'm thinking of a function of degree four. How many linear factors does my function have? Remember a linear factor is something of the form x minus n, where n can be any complex number. Remember complex numbers can be either real or imaginary or a combination of real and imaginary. The answer is 4. Let's think about this for a second. Let's say, for a moment, that our function had five linear factors, then we would have five linear factors. Five factors of x minus some number all multiplied together. Now, when we expand this multiplication, in other words, when we distribute all of these factors to one another, we're going to end up with some term that has an x to the fifth power. That's no good. This is a fifth degree polynomial, not a fourth degree. Considering this, you know that one of these factors have to go away, in order for us to only have the polynomial of degree 4. Here's another function for us to consider. This time, we have f of x equals x times x minus 2 times x minus 2 times x minus 1 times x minus 1. Well, this is interesting. We have some repeated factors here. So far, we've only seen polynomial functions. That have unique zeros or all factors with different zeros associated with them. In the past when we were looking at these functions with unique zeros the number of zeros was always equal to the degree of the polynomial. I wonder if that's the case if we have some zeros that are repeated instead? Let's use this function to check that out. What I'd like you to do to analyse this function then is to enter the x value of each of its zeros and then tell me how many times each of those factors associated with those zeros occur in the equation for the function. So if you said that one of the zeros was four for example, and you saw the factor x minus 4 three times in this equation, you would write a three right here. Lastly, I'd like you to add up the total number of zeros that we have. This total number should just be the sum of all of the numbers in this repeat boxes. Think, then, about how this should relate to the total number of factors we see in this equation. The first factor we see is just X, which is associated with a 0, X equals 0. There's only one of them so I write a 1 in this box. The other two 0's find are at X equals 1 and X equals 2. Each of the factors associated with these appears twice in the equation. If we add these numbers up we see that there are five 0's total, referenced by the factors in this equation. And as you might have expected, the total number of zeros we have 5 is equal to the number of factors or rather linear factors we see in the polynomial, and is also equal to the degree of this polynomial function. Once again we see that the linear factors zeros, in the degree of a polynomial function, are all very closely connected. Zeros can be any kind of complex number. Some of them are just real numbers, but some of them are complex numbers that have imaginary parts. Let us look at a little bit more closely at the case where our zeros are not just real numbers. When we looked at a quadratic equations, we found that if we had a solution of x equals 2 plus 3 i, then it's complex conjugate was also a solution. So, can you tell me what the complex conjugate of 2 plus 3 i is? The complex conjugate of 2 plus 3i is just 2 minus 3i. That means that if we know that 2 plus 3i is one of our roots, we also automatically know that 2 minus 3i is one of our roots. Now, if we found that 2 plus 3i and 2 minus 3i are both roots of some polynomial, then we also already know two factors of this polynomial. Those factors are x minus the quantity 2 plus 3i and x minus the quantity 2 minus 3i. If we know that both of these are factors of some polynomial, then they're going to be multiplied together to help create it's equation. So, what's an equation of a polynomial that only has these two factors? I've written them out as multiplied for you right here. But, I'd like you to expand this multiplication and simplify, writing the final version of this polynomial in this blue box. Now, the first way I thought of solving this problem, or just simplifying the left hand side rather, was to go through and multiply every term from the first set of parentheses by every term in this second set of the brackets. But that way, we end up this really, really long polynomial, and it does reduce, but it's not very pretty. So, I'm going to show you a different way of thinking about this multiplication. We can start off by distributing this negative sign to each of the terms inside this inner set of parentheses. We can do this for both of the sets of brackets. Now, this is pretty interesting. You see that we have x minus 2 here, and x minus 2 here. Why if we see if we can just consider those as a unit, and see what happens. At this point, we can recognize that we're going to end up with a difference of two squares as our final polynomial. Let's see that happen. Since we have an x minus 2 in both of these expressions, and then opposite signs of negative 3i and positive 3i here, we end up with x minus 2 squared plus 9. Notice I've already multiplied the i's together and switched the sign. Multiplying out this square and adding the 9 gives us a final polynomial of x squared minus 4x plus 13 equals 0. And this is a pretty cool trick, definitely saved a lot of space and a lot of writing for me. And, you know, I always love ways to be a little bit more lazy with my math. I was using my favorite red pen to write with yesterday, but unfortunately it had an accident. It exploded all over my piece of paper, and you can see I ended up with a pretty big mess. I even got it all over my hands. I don't know if you can tell but my fingers were pretty red yesterday. Now, the big problem however, is that I lost a bunch of the work I had done. I started out with a polynomial and then found all of its zeros. But now I can only see three of them. Think you can make it out here. 1, 2 and i. So I'm trying to figure out how much work I need to do to figure out my last zero. Do I need to actually recalculate it? To answer this question, please just write yes or no in this box. In the event that you write no in this box, and we can find this fourth zero without really doing any math at all, write what the fourth zero is in this box. And the answer is no. We actually don't need to do any calculations or no major calculations, at least, to find the last zero. It's simply the complex conjugate of this one non-real zero we already have, i. The complex conjugate of i is negative i. So that is our missing zero. Awesome. Let's say we have some other 4th degree polynomial? And we already know two of it's roots. They are 2 minus 3i and 4 plus 5i. What are the two 0's that we're missing? The two zeros were missing is just the complex conjugates of the roots that we already know. So we'll have 2 plus 3i, and 4 minus 5i. I'm really enjoying this practice of creating functions when we already know about their zeroes. So, let's keep doing that for a bit. Let's say that, this time, we have a polynomial that only has zeroes of 2, 3, and 4. And none of these are repeated. There's just one factor coming from each of these. What then, is the degree of that polynomial? It's a polynomial of degree 3. Let's keep working with this same polynomial, with these same zeros. How many factors does a polynomial have? It has three factors. This is perfectly in line with the fact that it's also a degree three. Now that we know that there are three factors, what are these factors? Please write them in the form x minus a, and put one in each of these boxes. Our linear factors will be x minus two, x minus three and x minus four. So, what's the simplest polynomial function that we can create from the three factors we just found? Note that the only factors this polynomial function will have are these three, it won't have any others. You don't need to expand or simplify the expression, just write it in factored form right here. The polynomial we're looking for is simply the product of all three of these factors, each put inside parentheses, of course. So we have f of x equals x minus 2, times x minus 3, times x minus 4. Awesome. So now, we found one polynomial function that has these linear factors as it's only linear factors. But is this the only function with just these linear factors? Please answer yes or no, think carefully about this. And the answer is no. Even without multiplying in another linear factor, we can multiply other numbers in. For example, if I multiplied in a factor of 3, we would still only have zeroes at 2, 3, and 4. Multiplying in a constant term, doesn't change the linear factors. Let's think about what we've learned. Now, we know that a function has the same number of zeros, and the some number of linear factors as its degree. And, of course, we need to make sure that we count the repeats here. We've also seen that complex zeros always come in pairs as conjugates. And we know how to find zeros of all different types. I think it's time then, to work through an example that involves multiple techniques we've learned. This is going to be a great problem to help you summarize all the important aspects of determining zeros. So, get ready for this amazing polynomial function. We have f of x equals, we're off to a pretty good start. 2x to the fourth, minus 13x cubed, plus 32x squared, minus 13x, and that's it. I hope you're impressed. So, if we want to find the zeros of this function, how do you think the best way to start would be? Should we factor the first two terms and then factor the last two terms? Should we grab a snack, since it's going to be a long ride? Should we pull out the greatest common factor from all of the terms? Should we use the rational zero theorem involving negative 13 and 2? Should we divide both sides by x? Or should we combine like terms? We should pull out the greatest common factor from all the terms here. That greatest common factor we can see is x. Now that we've recognized that there's a common factor of x among all these terms, let's pull it out to the front. When we do that, what belong's inside the parentheses here? To figure out what each of the terms should become inside the parentheses, we just need to divide each of them by x, since we've written our factor up here. Now our function reads f of x equals x times the quantity 2x cubed minus 13x squared plus 32x minus 13. We've already found one of the factors of our original polynomial. So, what should be our next step in continuing this factoring process? Should we factor by grouping for the polynomial inside the parenthesis? In other words, should be factor the first two terms and then the second two terms? Should we distribute multiplication by x to all the terms inside the parenthesis? Should we combine like terms? Should we divide both sides of the equation by X? Or should we find factors of negative 13 and 2, and then apply the rational zero theorem? The last choice is the best one. Factoring by grouping won't work for this cubic. We just pulled out next, so we don't want to remultiply it back in. There are no like terms to combine. And if we divide both sides by x, we'll end up with f of x over x here. And that's not really very helpful. The best way to find potential zeroes, of this polynomial, is to use the rational zero theorem. Our solution then is to find the factors of 2 and negative 13, so that we can eventually use the rational zero theorem. So, what are the positive factors of 2, and what are the positive factors of negative 13? The positive factors of 2 are just 1 and 2, and the positive factors of negative 13 are just 1 and 13. Now that we found the factors of our constant term and our leading coefficient for this polynomial inside parentheses, let's use these in the rational zero theorem. Please write out for me, all of the zeros that the rational zero theorem says this polynomial might have. Separate your answers by commas and don't forget the negative versions of your roots. To find all these potential zeroes, we know that, for each one, we're going to take a factor of negative 13, and divide it by a factor of 2. Then we need to the positive and negative versions of each of these ratios. So we could have 1 over 1, which is 1. Or the negative version of that, negative 1. 13 over 1, which is just 13. And negative 13, as well. In the end, we come up with eight roots, so the rational of zero theorem tells us this function might have. Now that the rational zero test has given us eight possibilities for zeroes at this function. Why don't we test some of them out? Now, of course, figuring out the value of the function at any of these values for x will give us useful information. But right now, I'm really only interested in which ones of these, when plugged into our function, give us f of x 0. Or rather, f of whatever value we plug in equals 0. Here's how we're going to go about doing this. I've made a list of the values of the function at all the possible zeroes we had, and I'd like you to evaluate all of these function values. All you need to do for this quiz is, starting at the top of the list, work your way down, and as soon as you find a value of the function that equals 0, write a 0 in the box next to that value. You can leave all the other boxes blank, and remember, you can stop after you have found just one zero. The top most one. If we work our way down through this list, we find that the first zero value is when x equals 1 half. f of 1 half equals 0. Now that we've found out another 0 of our function, we should automatically know what one of its factors is. One of its linear factors to be precise. So, what factor is associated a 0 of 1 half. Please fill in just integers in these two boxes, and make sure that the numbers you fill in have a greatest common factor of 1. Now you might have been tempted to write that our linear factor was x minus one half, since if we set this equal to 0 and solve for x we get one half. However I want an integer coefficient in constant terms here. This way we can transform our linear factor to be like that. Is by multiplying both sides by 2, since that's the denominator of our fraction here. If we do that, we end up with a linear factor instead of 2x minus 1. We can double check, and sure enough, the greatest common factor between 2 and negative 1, is 1. Perfect, this must be one of our linear factors. We are one step closer now, to getting this function in its fully factored form. Now, we know two of its linear factors. We already found x. And now, we also know that 2x minus 1 is a linear factor. The next thing for us to do then, is figure out what's left over if we pull out a factor of 2x minus 1 from this part of the expression. So, how do we do that? Well, we need to divide this expression inside the parentheses by 2x minus 1. Please use long divinsion to divide 2x cubed minus 13x squared plus 32x minus 13 by 2x minus 1. What do we get? Write your answer in this green box. Our long division here works here just the same as it always has. When we go through all the steps, we end up with x squared minus 6x plus 13. And luckily, we have a remainder of 0. Which as always, shows that 2x minus 1, really is a factor of the expression we started out with. Since the remainder is 0, that means if we plug in the root associated with this, the function will have a value of 0. Let's take a step back, and see how far we've come in solving this problem. We started out with our function, f of x equals 2 x to the fourth, minus 13 x cubed, plus 32 x squared, minus 13 x. And so far, we've pulled out two linear factors. Now we have x times 2 x minus 1, times x squared, minus 6 x plus 13. We are clearly well on our way to having this fully factored. All we have left to do, is figure out the zeros that go along with this quadratic expressions right here. What then, are the zeros of x squared minus 6 x plus 13? Please write them in these boxes. If we set this expression equal to 0, I can't really think of a way to factor it. So, our best way is to use the quadratic formula. All we need to do is plug the proper coefficients into the proper places in the formula, and then simplify. And it looks that we're going to get an answer that has an imaginary part since we're taking this square root of a negative number. We end up with 3 plus or minus 2i which, then of course, we can split into two separate answers. With 3 plus 2i and 3 minus 2i. We just found the last two zeroes of our function, f of x. They are 3 plus 2i and 3 minus 2i. To at long last get our function in fully factored form, we just need to figure out what linear factors correspond to these two zeroes. Please write 1 in each of these boxes. One of our factors will be x minus the quantity 3 plus 2i and the other will be x minus the quantity 3 minus 2i. We can, of course, distribute the subtraction if we want to. If we do that, then we'll end up with x minus 3 minus 2i and x minus 3 plus 2i. Either way of writing them works. Now finally, since we have these last two linear factors, we can write f of x as the product of four linear factors, which we knew it would have because it is a function of degree 4. So now we can write that f of x equals x times 2 x minus 1 times x minus 3 minus 2 i times x minus 3 plus 2 i. This is really awesome. We've made so much progress since we started off. Now I have one final question for you, and it's really what we've been working toward for the entire problem. What are all the zeros of f of x? We already know two of them from a couple of quizzes ago, 3 plus 2 i, and 3 minus 2 i. And so I'd just like you to fill in the last two. Check in with the linear factors we haven't used yet to find zeros, but at least haven't used in this quiz yet. The zero that goes along with the linear factor of x is just 0, and the one that goes along with 2x minus 1, is what we found before, one half. Look at that, amazing. We found all four zeros of our wonderful polynomial. And along the way, we've worked on a ton of different techniques we've been learning over the past few lessons. Awesome job. By now, you've learned about many different tools that we can use to get polynomials into their full factored forms. Sometimes, we can just pull a common factor out of all the terms in an equation. Other times, we need to use the rational zero theorem in conjunction with polynomial long division. In the event that we have a second degree polynomial, we can use the quadratic formula. All of these methods tell us about exact values of roots. But in the event that we're having trouble finding these exact values, we can always use the intermediate value theorem to approximate zeroes. Pretty much everybody has to pay taxes and Grant, with his new Gleaming Glasses company is no exception. The way that taxes depend on income can be described by functions. But these are slightly different functions than ones we've seen before. Let's check them out. First things first, here's a chart showing how a person's yearly income, determines the amount of money they will pay the government in taxes where Grant lives. We can see that the tax rate over here, or the percent of their income that a person will pay the government in taxes, changes depending on how high the person's income is. The way this works is a little bit complicated, so bear with me here. Now someone makes under $5000, please note this entire column is in dollars, so if someone makes under $5000, their tax rate is 0%. So, they actually don't have to pay the government anything at all. If someone's total income is between $5,000 and $15,000, the first $5,000 of their income is set aside and not taxed. Then what is left over is taxed at this 10% rate. If someone earns between $15,000 and $35,000 total, then, as with the person in this lower bracket, the first $5,000 of their income isn't taxed. The next 10,000, is taxed at 10%, and then the rest is taxed at 20%. If the person makes even more money than this total, then the amount above $35,000, is taxed at 30%. We can think of this tax rate scaling as a sort of layering effect. As were counting up the money a person makes, we don't start by thinking about the total. We start by counting from zero. Once we get to 5,000, then we start to add our tax rate, and we keep counting up and up, increasing the rate when we need to. So if for example, Grant earns $27,000 total, what is the total amount he's going to have to pay in taxes? First figure out how much of his income falls within each of these tax brackets. Then, I have listed the tax rate for each of those brackets over in this left-hand column. So to figure out how much he's going to pay in taxes from each of those brackets. Just multiply the income that falls within that bracket by the rate of that bracket. Once you have all of the taxes from each of the brackets, add all of them up to come up with the total amount of tax Grant's going to have to pay. I'll write in a dollar sign for you right here, and you don't have to write them in any of these slots at all. Just write the numbers. So, here's what our chart should look like filled in. As always, Grant is going to pay nothing in taxes for the first $5000 he made since the rate is 0%. Since $10000 of his income falls in this 10% range, he'll have to pay $1000 for that. And the remaining $12000 all belongs in the middle bracket which is taxed at 20%. So, that makes $2400. 0 plus 1000 plus 2400 equals $3400 total in taxes. I think it will be helpful for us to visualize the relationship between, total income and total pay in taxes. So, let's graph it. If we want to graph income on the horizontal axis. In taxes owed on the vertical axis, both measured in dollars. What will the slope of the line we draw represent. Will it represent the tax rate, written as a percent? The tax rate written as a decimal, the total tax paid, or the total income earned. Since the slope in this case will be the change in tax paid, over the change in income earned, that will give us the tax rate written as a decimal. If we wanted to see the tax rate written as a percent instead, we need to multiply, the decimal by 100. Now that we have an idea of what our graph will mean, I've gone ahead and drawn it for you. Know that the graph looks like it's made up of pieces of four different lines with different slopes. And in fact, it's exactly what's happening. So, we can see how they all compare to one another. I'd like you tell me what the equation in for each part of the line is. Remember that the slope of each line will be the tax rate of the bracket that corresponds to it written in decimal form. If you figured this out for each line segment, and then simply find a point on each of these sections of the line, you can use the point-slope formula to find the equation of the line. Please use x for the income, which is on the horizontal axis and t for taxes owed, since it's on the vertical axis. Here are the equations for each of the pieces of our line over here. The first one was pretty easy to figure out, it's just y equals 0. Since this is just a horizontal line at well, y equals 0. For each of these other three equations, I started out using point-slope form and then transformed to have equations in slope-intercept form. Over here on the graph, I wrote the tax rates corresponding to each of the brackets to make reminding myself of the slope of each line really easy. Then I just picked a point for each line that was easy to identify. Plugging in all of that information gave us these equations. For the lowest bracket, we have y equals 0.1x minus 500. For the middle one we have y equals 0.2x minus 2000. And for the highest bracket, or at least the highest one shown here, we have y equals 0.3x minus 5500. When we put all these pieces together, what we get is actually a function. We can tell, since it passes the vertical line test. This kind of function is called a Piecewise function because, well, it's defined in different pieces. Since different functions are defined in different parts of the domain, there have to be at least two different equations defined in different parts of the domain for a function to be considered a Piecewise function. What I'd like to know, is what part of the domain each of these functions occupies? I'm going to switch over to Piecewise function notation right now so that you can get an idea of what that looks like. So this is what typical Piecewise function notation looks like. You can see that instead of separate equations for each part of the line over here, we've effectively merged them into one using this brace, this curly thing right here. This shows that all of these different function pieces are part of a single function f of x. Now the other important feature of Piecewise function notation, is this section over here to the right. This is where we show the domain that each part of the function occupies. Often, you'll see a comma used between the equations for the different parts of the functions and their domain. But sometimes you'll see the word for written in here instead like this. To save space, I'm going to use commas right now. But either way is acceptable. Now, looking at the graph, and thinking back to what you learned about Grant's tax brackets before. Please fill in the different numbers that belong in these boxes to show what the domain of each piece of the function is. Now I've been nice, and I've already filled in the inequality signs for you, so all we need here are the numbers. Here are the sections of the domain that correspond to our different parts of our piecewise function. Note that each of these domains directly corresponds to the income ranges that went along with the different tax brackets. Just like we saw on the chart earlier on. For the first piece of the function, we have zero is less than or equal to X is less than 5000. Then we switch to this new equation whose domain is 5,000 is less than or equal to X is less than 15,000. The part of the domain for the next piece of the function is 15,000 is less than or equal to X is less than 35,000. And finally the highest tax bracket we have listed here is for all values of X greater than or equal to 35,000. Now are linear equations, the only kind of functions that can make up the pieces of a piecewise function? Definitely not. We can go crazy and make each section any kind of function we want. So, how about this graph? How would we express the piecewise function that I've shown right here? Please fill in both the function part in the domain part for each portion of the graph. Now when you do this, I'd like you to start at the top here with the left-most portion of the graph, and then work your way right. That way the values we see here in the domain are going to increase. The function we see over here on the left, is a line that is a slope of negative one half. And its y intercept is negative 4. So, it's equation is negative 1 half x minus 4. We can see that it starts here at x equals negative 5, and it goes all the way over to the Y axis or the f of x axis. The next part of the graph isn't a straight line however, it's a Parabola. That's pretty neat. And note that in order to use the notation we've been using for piecewise functions, we have to rearrange the equation of each part of the function so that f of x is by itself on the left hand side. If we do that for this parabola, it's actually not too bad. It's just negative the quantity x minus 2 squared, since the vertex is at 2 comma 0. The graph is obeying this function from 0 to 3. The last line we have has a slip of 1, and it's equation is just f of x equals x minus 4. It's on the graph from 3 to 8. In all of the piecewise functions we've looked at so far, the endpoints of each of the segments have matched up with one another exactly. Which makes the graphs continuous. There are no breaks. Now when this is the case, we can choose to include these boundary values. These values of x where we switch from one part of the function to the other. To be in either of the two parts of the function that come together at that point. We don't want any over lapse however. So in the case of this last function we were looking at. We initially included that x equals 0 point. In the probable part of the function. Which is why we had 0 is less than or equal to x is less than 3. As the domain, for this middle piece of the function. We could however instead, include 0 in this first linear part, the negative one half of x minus 4 part of the function. If we decide to pursue that, we'd have to switch off our inequalities over here. So instead of having 0 is less than or equal to x right here you have 0 is less than X. I would switch the equal to part to be here over. So domain for this first line is negative five is less than or equal to x, less than or equal to 0. We could do the same thing with x equals 3. And now we can see it's contained in the f of x equals x minus four portions. This line right here. We could instead, include it in the parabola if we just made x is less than or equal to 3. Instead of x is less than 3, and if we just switch this to less than sign. Sometimes however, piecewise functions aren't continuous. They often have breaks in them. But sometimes Piecewise Functions aren't continuous. They often have breaks in them, as you can see in the two functions I've drawn here. Now, if you want to show that a certain point is not defined on a function, or in other words, if you want to exclude its X coordinate from the domain. We just draw a little open circle at that point like I've done in several places here. Now, for each of these two piecewise functions here, I'd like you to decide which of these end points should stay open. And which ones should be filled on, based of course on how I've defined the domains for either of the functions. If you think an endpoint should be filled in, just click the circle that's at that endpoint. And if you want it to stay open, then just leave it open. Don't mark it. To double-check your work, you can make sure that there's no x value on either of these graphs that belongs to two different parts of the functions. For this graph, the point x equals 1 belongs with the 2x minus 1 part of the function, since its domain is x is greater than or equal to 1. Over on the right, we should have this end point and this end point filled in. Since we have f of x equals negative 2, for x is less than or equal to negative 3. And, we have f of x equal 5 minus x, for 4 is less than or equal to x. Note that the middle piece of the function, 1 half x minus 3, has an inequality that isn't inclusive for either of the numbers involved. So, that means, it should not include negative 3 or 4, which we see with these open circles here. Awesome. Even though a piecewise functions probably feel unfamiliar at this point. You've actually met a function before which can be written as a piecewise function. It's the absolute value function, remember that it has this V shape Now how can we define this as a piecewise function? Fill in the function that's obeyed when x is less than 0 and the one that's obeyed when x is greater than or equal to 0. Just a hint, you cannot get away with putting the absolute value of x in both of these boxes. I want to know what different functions show up in these two different regions. Instead of writing f of x equals the absolute value of x, we could write f of x equals negative x for x is less than 0, and x, for x is greater than or equal to 0. Notice that writing the function in this piecewise form actually tells us what it means to take the absolute value of a number. The absolute value signs switch the sign of negative numbers and preserve a value of positive numbers. That's pretty cool. I don't know about you. But I think that online shopping is pretty great. Once Grant realized how much easier many people find it to be, he decided that he should make his glasses wipers, nozzles and cleaning solutions available for purchase on the internet. To encourage his customers to buy more merchandise online, he's come up with a fancy piece for his function that allows them to save money on shipping cost orr postage, if they spend more money buying his products. Please note that costs of order here does not include the postage. And also note that the quantities in each of these columns are measured in dollars. So, we can read this as, if the cost of the order is less than $10, the postage is only $2.75. If the order costs between $10 and $50, postage is $5.00. And for a person who spends at least $50 on the site, they need not have to pay any postage at all. How much would the total cost, which is equal to the cost of the order plus the postage, be for each of the following. A, one nozzle set for $9.99. B, a box of six nozzle sets for $49.99. C, some cleaning solution for $1.99 and one nozzle set for $9.99. And d, a box of six nozzle sets for $49.99 and some cleaning solution for $1.99. I've included the dollar signs for you on all these amounts, so please just write in the numbers. All we need to do for each of these, is to figure out what the cost of the order is. Then what the corresponding cost of postage will be. And add those two quantities together to get the total cost. If a nozzle set costs $9.99, and that's all were buying, that's under $10. So postage is just $2.75. $9.99 plus $2.75 equals $12.74. For B, if we do the same thing, our postage is going to be $5 instead, and we end up with $54.99. For C and D, we need to add together two quantities to find the cost of the order, and our total cost for these two end up being $17.98 and $51.98. Here I've drawn a graph showing how postage, which I'm going to call f of x, depends on the cost of the order, or x. Note that like a couple of other piecewise functions that we work with so far, this function has breaks in it. The different parts don't connect to one another. Because of this, we call functions like this one, discontinuous. What I'd like to know is what piecewise function this graph is representing? Please fill in the different parts of the function for each of these parts of the domain right here. Of course, you can always use our table for reference, too. The three functions we see graphed here, to make up our single piecewise function are f of x equals 2.75, for 0 is less than or equal to x is less than 10. f of x equals 5 for 10 is less than or equal to x is less than 50. And f of x equals 0 for 50 is less than or equal to x. These correspond directly to the different postages depending on how much our orders cost. This last function that we looked at is a bit of an interesting kind of piecewise function, it's called a step function. A step function, is a function that's made up of one or more constant functions, as you can see for the last one we worked with. In both the graph and the equation, each piece is in fact a constant function. f of x is equal to just a number in each part of the domain. And we have a bunch of straight horizontal lines. In light of what you've just learned about step functions, which of these graphs do you think represent step functions? Remember that a step function is just a function made up of one or more constant pieces. These two graphs are the only two that show step functions. The other two aren't, because this one has linear parts, with slopes that aren't just 0, and this one has a part that's a problem. This third one is sort of a funny case, you might call it a trivial case of a step function, because it's just one constant function. This is just f of x equals 3. This step function only has one constant piece, so it's sort of a silly example, but it still counts. This first one is a more classic example of a step function. And probably something you'll see more typically when people talk about step functions. Sales of Grant's packs of 12 nozzles have really taken off. In fact, he's been doing so well selling these bulk packages, that he's only going to sell nozzles by the dozen now. That does mean, though, that depending on how many nozzles he has total, he might have some left over. For example, if Grant has 40 nozzles total, then that will make 3 and 1 3rd packages of 12 nozzles. Since if we take 40 and divide it by 12, we get 3 and a 3rd. And we can see these 3 whole packages of 12 nozzles, but then there's this 1 3rd of a package left over. Grant can't sell 1 3rd of a package. So, this 3 and a 3rd packages really only counts as 3 for him. So, it's almost as if we're taking this 3 and a 3rd and rounding it down to the nearest integer, 3. So, let's say that x equals the actual number of packs of nozzles we have. So, for example in this case, we have 3 and 3rd packs of nozzles. And let's say that y equals the number of packs of nozzles that Grant can actually sell. So, in this case, that was 3. We can represent this relationship between the actual number of packages we have and the number Grant can sell by something that's called the Floor Function, also known as the Greatest Integer Function. The notation for the equation is this, y equals x inside these double square brackets, which basically means that the y value is equal to the greatest integer that is less than or equal to the corresponding x value. But what do you think the graph of the 4 function looks like? Which of these graphs do you think properly represents the floor function? Remember that we want the y value to round x down to the nearest integer. I know that from our way it might be hard to tell these graphs apart. So, below them I've shown a blown up version for you of what each of these steps looks like. Please notice the difference between the 2 in terms of which circles are empty and which circles are colored in. And this one is the floor function. You can see that for a given x value, the y value will be equal to the next lowest integer. Unless x itself is an integer, in which case y equals x. Please know that the only difference between this graph and this one, is the placement of the empty circle and the closed circle in each step. By now, we've seen a ton of different kinds of functions in this course. We've seen polynomial functions, absolute value functions, square root functions and our piecewise functions, too. One thing we haven't looked at though is functions that involve division of polynomials, functions that have fractions in them. What kind of equation would a function like that have? Well, here are a few examples. All of the functions I've written here involve taking ratios of polynomials. In other words, dividing one polynomial by another. Remember, that even constant terms are considered polynomials, too. We call them rational functions because they are ratios. There's a ton of variety in this family of functions, and their graphs might not look quite like you expect. So, here are the graphs of the four functions that I listed up here. But now they are in a different order. Figure out which function each of these graphs represents and then write the letter of the graph next to the proper function. I know that we've never actually seen rational functions before, so to guess what each of these look like, you can plug in some different points and then see which of the graphs they fit. Graphs A and D probably look pretty familiar to you and they go respectively with functions G and F. I know it probably seems a little bit strange because we haven't seen equations like these before, even though you recognize their graphs. We'll talk more about this later, but start to think, right now, about what these equations reduce to. And why they produce the graphs that they do. Graphs B and C however are definitely new for us. Graph B represents the function one over X and graph C represents the function one over X squared. You'll see a lot more graphs that look like these two over the next few lessons. And pretty soon you'll understand exactly what's happening in each of them. So let's pick one of these graphs to play with a little bit more so we can get better acquainted with rational functions. As I'm looking at these equations, I think that h of x is equal to 1 over x would be a great one to start out with. So, let's pick that, I'm going to blow it up here for you. So here's our graph blown up. Now there actually are two lines for the graph of y equals 1 over x will never cross. Can you tell from the graph here, or from the equation, what those two lines are? Please type in their equations right there. Now, don't worry at all if you don't get them. I'm going to talk a lot more about this, in just a bit. The two lines of this graphs is never going to cross are y equals 0. The x axis over here and x equals 0. Now I didn't draw these two lines perfectly. But in reality the graph of y equals 1 over x just gets super, super close to both of the axes. But it never, ever touches them. That's really cool. Pretty soon we're going to look at some even more interesting functions, ones that involve absolute value signs. But I think that before we do that, we should do a little refresher on absolute value itself, or absolute value functions. I've written down several equations for you and also drawn several graphs. Please match the letter of each graph with the proper equation. Graph C and B are pretty easy to identify, since they're just linear equations. So, they go with h of x and k of x. A and D are the two absolute value functions, so they are the functions f and g. We can figure out which one is which by plugging in a few numbers. Let's say, x equals 0, for example. For f of x that gives us f of 0 equals the absolute value of negative 3 or a 3, which is what we see in graph D. The same thing with g gives us g of 0 equals negative 3, which is going with graph A. Let's see how to write the two absolute value functions from the last quiz as piecewise functions, this is just like we did earlier on in the lesson. This time however, I'd like you to fill in both the function pieces and the corresponding parts of the domain. For g of x equals the absolute value of x minus 3. We can write this in piecewise form as g of x equals negative x minus 3, for x is less than 0, this branch over here and g of x equals x minus 3 for x is greater than or equal to 0. You can write f of x equals the absolute value of x minus 3. As f of x equals negative x plus 3 for X is less than 3, and x minus 3 for x is greater than or equal to 3. Remember these four functions that we played with at the very beginning of our discussion of Rational functions. Well, we're going to play with them a little bit more right now, except I'd like to make one change to each of them. I want to add in some absolute value signs. Take a second right now to predict how the addition of these absolute value signs to each of these functions is going to change the way that their graphs look. Now that you've had a chance to make your prediction, here are the graphs of our functions. You however, need to tell me which graph goes with each function. Pick some points to test out and then put the letter of the graph next to the function it belongs with. So here are the graphs that match up with each of the functions. You might notice that two of these graphs actually didn't change at all. From the way they looked when their corresponding functions didn't have absolute value signs in them. Those two graphs are B and C. So what does this mean? Well, you'll note that in both functions g and k, the absolute value signs appeared around x squares. Now we know that x squared on it's own is always going to be positive. So taking the absolute value sign of a positive number doesn't do anything to change it's value. That's why these two graphs don't change at all, compared to the old versions. We put absolut value signs around the denominatro of the function 1 over x. We can see that the branch that used to be down here with negative x and negative y values. Got flipped across the x axis. So now, it's y values are positive. I think that graph d might actually be the most interesting change of these four. Before, we just had a straight line. This is basically just the function. F of x equals 1. A constant function. But now, our numerator will always be positive. But, once we move over into the negative x values. The denominator will be negative. A positive divided by a negative makes a negative, which is why this half of the line got reflected across the x axis to become negative. Pretty cool. Many of the functions we've been dealing with recently then, are rational functions. A rational function is just the ratio of two polynomial functions. Let's say for example, that we have the function f of x equals x squared plus 3x minus 10, over the quantity x plus 5. Let's just focus on the numerator here for a second. We can factor this. If we do that, then what should we have multiplied together in the top of the fraction? x squared plus 3x minus 10, factors to be x plus 5 times x minus 2. Considering the function that we have, what real value of x can we not substitute in to f of x? In other words, what values can x not equal here? x cannot equal negative 5. If it did we would end up dividing by 0 since the denominator would be negative 5 plus 5. This means that negative 5 is not part of the domain of f, since the function is not defined here. Now, as with any fractions, we have a common factor in the numerator and the denominator. We can divide them by that factor and cancel it out. I'd like to find the greatest common factor shared by the top and bottom of our rational function here and get rid of it to write the function in simplest terms. Please note that I've included our domain restriction over here, so you don't have to worry about writing that in. Since we factored the numerator, we can see that we have a common factor of x plus 5 in both the top and the bottom here. So, if we cancelled that out, the only factor that's left is x minus 2 in the numerator. That means f of x reduces to just x minus 2. Of course keeping in mind that x is not allowed to equal negative 5. Now on our graph when x equals negative 5, we're just going to see a tiny little point size brick, that's all this domain restriction does. It's pretty amazing considering what a complicated function we started out with to see that it reduces to just x minus 2, something linear. Rational functions are very fascinating. Let's see if a similar sort of reduction happens with another rational function. How about we play with this one? F of x equals x squared minus 1 over 2 times x squared minus 3x plus 2. How would you factor the numerator and the denominator of this function? Please just factor for now. No cancelling anything out yet. The numerator is just a difference of 2 squares, so it's equal to x plus 1 times x minus 1, and the denominator, a factor of 2, has already pulled out for us. So x squared minus 3x plus 2 factors to be x minus 2 times x minus 1. Now that we have our function in its fully factored form, is there anything that we can cancel out? Please write the reduced version of this function, getting rid of the greatest common factor in the numerator and the denominator. We notice that there's a common factor of x minus 1 in the numerator and the denominator. If we cancel those out, we're left with x plus 1 in the numerator and 2 times x minus 2 in the denominator. Let's take a look at the graph of the function we were just dealing with. Here it is, there are two lines that this graph never crosses. Which two do you think they are? Once again, we have a rational function with a fascinating graph. It never crosses the line x equals 2, or the line y equals 1 half. Let me take a second to draw them on here. Here we have the line x equals 2. We can see that on either side of it, the graph is getting closer and closer. But it's never going to actually touch the line. This is called a vertical asymptote. Let's look at y equals 1 half, and there we go! This is called a horizontal asymptote. Similarly, on either side, the graph is getting closer and closer but never actually touching it. We're going to talk a lot more about these kinds of asymptotes and others in the next couple of lessons. Athena is now helping out with her final project at the firm, designing a concert hall. She loves music so she's very excited. But first things first, she needs to learn a bit about how sound travels, so she can help think about the acoustics of the space. As a starting point, if you're listening to an orchestra or choir in this concert hall, would the music sound louder, sound softer, or sound the same, if we walked further away from the stage where the musicians are. It would sound softer. You can test this with pretty much any sound. We just established that the volume of a sound, or its loudness, gets lower or decreases as the distance from the sound source increases. I've drawn four graphs for you here and I'd like you to tell me which ones show loudness decreasing as distance increases. Please note loudness is on the vertical axis in all these graphs and distances on the horizontal axis. Both of these middle graphs show loudness decreasing as distance increases. This one shows loudness as a constant. It doesn't change at all as distance changes. And this one shows loudness increasing as distance increases. So neither of those is right. You narrowed down the relationship between loudness and distance to two different graphs in the last quiz. So I'm just going to go ahead and tell you that this one shows the actual relationship between these two quantities. Loudness varies as 1 over the distance from the source of the sound. Now, if you wrote these with more standard mathematical variables, x and y, you'd have the equation y equals 1 over x. We actually worked with this in the last lesson, and this is an example of a rational function. Just to refresh our memories then, what is a rational function? Is it a polynomial function whose coefficients are all real numbers? A polynomial function whose coefficients are all rational numbers? A function that's one polynomial multiplied by another polynomial? Or is it a function that is one polynomial divided by another polynomial? Please pick what you think is the best answer to describe all rational functions. A rational function is a function that's one polynomial divided by another polynomial. Rational functions are like rational numbers, except, instead of an integer divided by an integer, such as 3/4's, it's a polynomial divided by another polynomial. We already saw a simple example earlier, in y equals 1 over x. But they can get much more complicated, and therefore, much more interesting. You might even have something like this. Y equals negative 3x cubed plus 2x squared minus 7, all divided by X to the 4th minus X. Note that actually all of the other choices that I gave you here, also technically are rational functions. They just all have denominators of 1. Remember that constants are polynomials, too. Most of the rational functions we'll see though, look more like these 2. The family of rational functions has a ton of variety in it, since there are so many different polynomials out there. But there's one restriction that all of them are subject to. There's a certain value that the denominator is not allowed to equal. What is it. The denominator of a rational function cannot be equal to 0. Because then we would be, well, dividing by 0, and we know that's a major problem. For each of these 2 rational functions then, what is x not allowed to be equal? Remember, we want to avoid having a denominator equals 0. For each equation we can just set the denominator equal to 0 and then solve for x. When we do that, we find that for a, x cannot be 0, and for b, x cannot be 1. What's happening in these two functions is something totally new for us. For each one, we get a value of x that's not allowed right in the middle of the domain. What does this actually mean? Well, here's the graph of one of the two functions we were just working with f of x equals 1 over 3x. What do you notice about the behavior of the graph just before x equals 0, so to the left of the y axis and just after x equals 0, to the right of the y axis? Looking to the left of the graph, just before we reach 0, it looks like we fall way below negative infinity, and just after x equals 0, the graph reappears way up high, and then comes back down for positive infinity. So, as we approach x equals 0 from the left the graph falls low, but as we approach from the right, it rises way high. In the previous lesson we mentioned the term asymptote. And in this past quiz you saw that the graph of f of x equals 1 over 3x never actually reaches x equals 0. The y axis. Now if we look at this line on the graph since its already drawn for us. We can see that it splits the graph. So that the curve falls down toward negative infinity on one side. And comes back down from positive infinity on the other side. As I mentioned before, this line, x equals 0, is called a vertical asymptote, for this graph. Here's a graph of the other function we were looking at before. F of x equals 4 over X minus 1. Based on this graph, what do you think the vertical asymptote for this function is? Make sure that what you write is the equation for a vertical line. Since that's what a vertical asymptote is. The vertical asymptote is the line x equals 1. This is the value of x that makes the denominator of a rational function eguals 0. X can equal one for f of x equals four over x minus 1 because well, there's a vertical asymptote right there. Its all starting to make sense and come together. If I draw in the line, x equals 1, we can see that yes in fact, it does not look But the curve of the rational function is going to touch this line at all. It's just going down to negative infinity here, and coming back down from positive infinity over here. Never touching this line. You've looked at the behavior of f of x equals 4 over x minus 1, around x equals 1, right in the middle of the graph. But what's the behavior doing far, far to the left, and far, far to the right? It doesn't look like any other curve we've seen before in the course. Which of these statements right here probably describes the behavior of this function, as we move far, far away from the y axis? Does the curve approach the line y equals o, the x axis, from above but never touch it, as x goes either to positive infinity, or negative infinity? Does the curve approach y equals 0 from above but not touch it, as x goes to infinity. And does it approach y equals 0 from below as x goes to negative infinity? Does the curve approach Y equals 0 from below, as x goes to positive infinity, and from above as x goes to negative infinity? Or does the curve approach Y equals 0 from below, as x goes to positive infinity and to negative infinity? The second choice is the correct one. As x gets bigger and bigger, going toward positive infinity, the graph is getting closer and closer to the line y equals zero from above the X axis. And as x gets closer and closer to negative infinity, over here on the left side of the graph. The curve of a rational function is also getting closer to y equals zero but from the bottom this time. In either case however, the curve never touches the X axis. This line y equals, that our curve heads towards, but never quite reaches as x goes to positive infinity and to negative infinity is called a horizontal asymptote. Let's look at another rational function and see if we can find its horizontal asymptote. In fact, why don't we return to that other function we were working with before. f of x equals 1 over 3x. What is its horizontal asymptote? Make sure that the answer you give is the equation of a horizontal line. The horizontal asymptote for this graph is also y equals 0. We can see that the curve is never going to touch the x axis on either side of the graph. For both examples we've looked at with Horizontal Asymptotes so far, the Horizontal Asymptote was at y equals 0. Do you think this is the case for all rational functions? The answer is no. If you think back to other curves you've looked at, like parabolas for example. We saw that we could shift the curves up and down, and we can do the same thing with rational functions, even with the graphs you've already worked with. In fact, here's what the graph of 4 over x minus 1 would look like If we shifted it up 1, we can see that now the horizontal asymptote is at y equals 1, instead of at y equals 0. The equation of the curve that I just showed you in the last solution is this, f of x equals 4 over x minus 1 plus 1. How can we write this equation in the normal form for the equation of a rational function as one polynomial divided by another polynomial. So, you want just a single fraction here, where both the numerator and the denominator are polynomials. Please fill this in and make sure that the common factor between the numerator and the denominator is 1 in this case. When we transformed f of x equals 4 over x minus 1 plus 1 into a single fraction, by converting this 1 to have the same denominator as the first term, we end up with, x plus 3 over x minus 1. So, you can see that yes, in fact, this is a rational function, since both of these are polynomials. This last example actually gives us a clue as to how to find the horizontal asymptote of a rational function. We started off with f of x equals 4 over x minus 1 plus 1. And as x gets bigger, this fraction is going to get smaller and smaller. Eventually we're going to end up with f of x equals 1 plus something that's almost zero. This means, as we saw from the graph, that our horizontal asymptote will be at y equals 1. So how can we reverse the process that we went through of combining two fractions? In other words, if we started out with x plus 3 over x minus 1, how can we get back to 1 plus 4 over X minus 1? Should we divide the numerator by the denominator? Should we divide the denominator by the numerator? Should we subtract the denominator from numerator? Or should we subtract the numerator from the denominator? We should divide the numerator by the denominator. If you divide x plus 3 by x minus 1, we end up with 1 with a remainder of 4, which is exactly what we see in the answer here. Looks like we've got a method. Let's try this method of dividing the numerator by the denominator to find the horizontal asymptote with this new function. F of x equals 3x minus 8 over x minus 5. What do you get if you divide 3x minus 8 by x minus 5? Put your answer in this box. I like to use long division to do problems like these. And if we do, we end up with an answer of 3 plus 7 over x minus 5, since we had a remainder of 7. Considering the way that we just rewrote 3x minus 8 over x minus 5 as 3 plus 7 over x minus 5. What is the horizontal asymptote of that rational function we are working with? The horizontal asymptote is at y equals 3. We know this because as x gets very, very big, this fraction is going to go to 0. And that means that the function is going to approach the value 3. Let's check that there really is a horizontal asymptote at y equals 3, by using this x f of x table. Use a calculator to find the value of f of x for each of these values of x. Rand your answer correctly to five decimal places. And our values of f of x, are 4.4, 3.07368, 3.00704, 3.0007 and 3.00007. We can see that as x gets bigger and bigger, f of x is in fact getting closer and closer to three. We're about to take a look at the graph of f of x equals 3x minus 8 over x minus 5. But just before we do, let's find it's vertical asymptote. Where do you think it is? Remember, we just need to check what value of x is going to make the denominator equal to 0. Write in the equation of the asymptote right here. The vertical asymptotes is the line x equals 5, since if we put 5 in for x, we get 5 minus 5, or 0 in the denominator. The vertical and horizontal asymptotes of this rational function divide the coordinate plane into four different sections. Which of these four sections does the graph lie in? Check off the proper boxes to show approximately the points that the graph is going to go through. The graph belongs in this bottom left section and in this top right section. It goes through all 3 points that are marked in each. Let's try another rational function. We'll look for both the horizontal and the vertical asymptotes. But let's just start out with the vertical. The function I'd like us to look at is f of x equals 8x squared minus 1 over 4x squared minus 9. Please write the vertical asymptotes in this box, separating the equations by commas. The vertical asymptotes of this rational function are x equals 3/2, and x equals negative 3/2. Here's how we find them. As before, we're looking for the values of x that will make the denominator equal to 0. So we set 4x squared minus 9 equal to 0, and then solve for x. When we take the square root of both sides, you'd get just X on the left-hand side, and we'd get plus or minus the square root of 9/4's on the right-hand side, which is just equal to plus or minus 3 over 2. So this time we have 2 vertical asymptotes. The next thing I want us to find, is the horizontal asymptote of this function. Remember that the way we found this before, was we divided the numerator by the denominator. So, why don't we take a step back and just do that first? So let's start by just doing that division. What is 8 x squared minus 1 divided by 4 x squared minus 9? The answer to our division problem is 2 plus 17 over 4x squared minus 9. Now let's find that horizontal asymptote. Remember what we found as the answer to our division problem in the last quiz? What that gives us is another way to write the rational function we have here. Think about what happens as x gets really, really big to the value of the function. That should tell you the horizontal asymptote. Remember that this should be the equation of some horizontal line. Our horizontal asymptote is y equals 2. We can see, from the other way to write this rational function, 2 plus 17 over 4x squared minus 9. As x gets really big, the denominator, here, will get very, very large. Which means, this fraction as a whole, will get to be very tiny. That means, that the value of the function, is going to approach 2, as x gets really big. Now I'd like you to find the locations of the x and y-intercept of the same rational function. Actually, if you could just give me the x-coordinate of each x-intercept and the y-coordinate of each y-intercept, I would be very happy. Just separate your answers by commas if there's more then one in a given box. And if there aren't any, write none. To find the x-coordinates of the x-intercepts of this rational function, we need to set the numerator equal to 0. Since if that equals 0, then the whole fraction equals 0, which means that f of x equals 0. And that's exactly what's happening at an x-intercept. When we solve for x, we get x equals plus or minus 1 over the square root of 8, or 1 over 2 root 2. This is approximately equal to plus or minus 0.354 point. Now for our y-intercepts, all we need to do is plug in zero for x. This gives us a y value of 1 9th. So, there we go. We have two x-intercepts and one y-intercept. What other information can we learn about this function? Well how about this? Is it even, is it odd, or is it neither one of those? Remember that for an even function, f of x will be equal to f of negative x. And for an odd function, f of x is equal to negative f of negative x. So, you can try plugging in different positive and negative values and see if it fits into either of these two categories. This function is even. Let's check this out using the numbers 1 and negative 1 for values of x. When we plug in either 1 or a negative 1 into f of x, we get negative 7 over 5 in both cases. Now, ideally, we check this with more than one set of numbers. And if you don't trust me, you can totally go back and do that. But I declare this function, even. Once again, I've drawn the vertical, and the horizontal asymptotes, for this rational function, on our coordinate plane. And we can see, that this time, the graph is divided into six different sections, by these asymptotes. In which sections of the plane does the graph reside? Think about where its x and y-intercepts are, and also, try plugging in points, from these different areas, and see which ones work for this equation. These are the boxes that should have been checked off. We can find curves of the graph in three different areas, over here, down here, and up here again. Let me show you the full version of the graph so you can get a real picture of what it looks like. These black curves represent the graph of this function. It's pretty incredible to think about how different this looks from any other rational function we've look at so far. This is just testament to the incredible wide variety of graphs and functions we have in the ratinoal function family. In this lesson we looked at Rational Functions that have horizontal and vertical asymptotes and we also talked about how to find them. Get ready for the next lesson, where we'll learn how to find the domain and the range for rational functions. Well also talk about one more kind of asymptote. So get excited. Athena is ready to keep pushing forward with her understanding of acoustics to help out with Concert Hall design. As before, she's still pretty concerned with how well audience members will be able to hear the music from different places in the concert hall. Now, however, she's worried about Reverberation time. This is basically how long a sound echoes for after it's been produced. Athena has figured out a simplified equation for reverberation time in the hall. The equation is, T equals 0.322 V over A. Here, T stands for Reverberation time, V is the volume of the hall, and A is the surface area of the hall. So, to figure out the reverberation time then, Athena is going to need to find the volume and the surface area of the room. On this diagram of the hall, I've written in the dimensions of each of the sides. It's not super important right now what x stands for but just so you know, it's the depth of the stage back here. This is how long x is. Considering each of these lengths, what is the volume of our concert hall? We can find the volume of the concert hall by just multiplying these three different lengths together, since this is a rectangular prism. So we'll have 3 x times 2 x times x plus 10. And of course it doesn't matter what order you multiply these together in. We could leave the answer like this, or we could simplify. I like this form a bit better, we have V equals 6 x squared times the quantity x plus 10. Awesome. Next, we're going to need to find the surface area of the hall. Now, the surface area of an object is the sum of the areas of all of its surfaces. So for this hall, how many sides do we have? Don't forget to count the ceiling and the floor. The concert hall has 6 surfaces. We have the ceiling and the floor and each of these four sides for the walls. Now I'd like you to work out what the total surface area of the hall is. To do that, find each of the areas of the four walls and of the ceiling and of the floor. And then add all those areas together. Make sure that you simplify your answer as much as you can. We actually have a bunch of pairs of faces that have the same area. Each face has the same area as the one opposite it. So we have two faces whose area is 3x times 2x. Two that are 3x times x plus 10. And another two that are 2x times x plus 10x. Let's multiply all of this out. After a few steps of simplification, we end up with a surface area of 22x squared plus 100x. That means that in terms of x, we remember x is the depth of her stage. Our equation for reverb time is this: T equals 0.322 times 6 x squared, times x plus 10, all over 22 x squared plus 100 x. This is a rational function. Now, as we've done with other rational functions, let's factor the numerator and denominator. Write the fully factored forms of each side of the fraction here and here. I'd also like you to make a note of any values of x for which the function isn't defined. The fully factored form of this rational function is T equals 1.932 x squared times x plus 10 for the numerator and in the denominator, 2 x times 11 x plus 50. From the denominator, we can see that the values of x where the function will be undefined are x equals 0, and x equals negative 50 over 11. So x is not allowed to equal either of these values. To make sure we have our rational function written in simplest form, I'd like you to cancel out any common factors that are shared by the numerator and the denominator, then write the simplified form of the function right here. Note that I've still included our domain restrictions here, which means we won't lose any information, even if we cancel out some factors. I also would like you to make sure that in this final form down here, there's no constant factor left in the denominator. I'd like the only constant factor to be in the numerator. We can notice that we have an x squared and an x here. So, one of our x's from the top will cancel with the x from the bottom. We can also combine our two coefficients by just dividing 1.932 over 2. That gives us a reduced form of 0.966x times x plus 10 over 11x plus 50. Now does the reduced form of this function have any vertical asymptotes? If so, please write their equations in this box. Our vertical asymptote is x equals negative 50 over 11. In this reduced form of the equation, this is the only value of x that will make the denominator equal to 0. Now that we factored and found our vertical asymptote, let's use long division just like we did in the last lesson, to find the horizontal asymptote of this function. First though, I'm going to need to multiply the numerator out again, so that I have something in a form that I can divide with. Okay, so now I have that T equals 0.966x squared plus 9.66x divided by 11x plus 50. Let's use long division to carry out this division that we see in the fraction. So here I've written out our division in long division form. If we solve this long division problem, what is the first term of our answer going to look like? Is it going to be some coefficient times x. Will it be a constant? Will it be a fraction with a denominator of 11x plus 50? Or, will it not be anything because you refuse to do anymore long division at all. We're going to end up with sum coefficient times x plus a bunch of other stuff at the end. That's what we were trying to find by doing long division, after all. Well, we're actually not going to have one. I think we're on to something pretty interesting here, so let's pursue this for a bit. We know that in the last example we were working with, we didn't have a horizontal asymptote. But do we have something else instead? Well, we're going to check out a slightly simpler example right now to get some ideas about that. Let's consider f of x equals 2x squared plus 3x minus 7 Over X minus 2. What do we get if we use long division to divide the numerator by the denominator? When we complete the long division, we get 2x plus 7 plus 7 over x minus 2. Hm? Well what does this mean? Again, this is not a horizontal Asymptote. The answer we get when we carry out this long division and rewrite the function in this new way, is definitely different than what we would get if we had a horizontal asymptote. But once again, we have a fraction as one of our terms. What value does this fraction 7 over x minus 2 get very close to as x heads to infinity. As x approaches infinity, 7 over x minus 2 will approach 0. We've seen now that as x gets very large, 7 over x minus 2 becomes very small, and it pretty much goes to 0. So, as this fraction gets tiny, what expression does that leave us with for the function? f of x will approach the function 2x plus 7, since that's what we have if this entire fraction disappears, just 2x plus 7. So a x gets bigger and bigger, our function is going to approach the line y equals 2x plus 7. This is called a slant asymptote. We'll see in a second how this shows up on our graph, but first, I'd like for us find the vertical asymptote for this function. Please write its equation in this box. The vertical Asymptote for this ratioinal function will be x equals 2, as we can see from the demoninator right here. Where on the coordinate plane does this graph lie, then? We know that the Asymptotes, which I've drawn here, divide the plane into sections. And we can find the graph of the rational function in some of those areas, but not all of them. Please check off all the spots that the function will pass through. The function will pass through these points here, and these points here. It won't be at all in this part of the graph, or in this part of the graph. Interesting. Slant asymptotes really change things up. Now since this is a major tease, let me just show you the full graph of the function. And here it is. We can see our slant asymptote right here. The graph is getting closer and closer to it, as x gets bigger on both sides, positive and negative. And we can also see our vertical asymptote right here. Pretty cool. Asymptotes clearly are what determines the behavior of rational functions. Now let's get back to Athena's example for a second. Going through this long division would have been really messy, so I've gone ahead and done it for you. What we end up with is still something that's not super pretty, but at least now you have the numbers. Considering this answer, what is the slant asymptote of our function T? I've already written y equals for you, so just fill in an expression on the right-hand side of the equation. A slant asymptote is going to be these first two terms, the two that are not fractions that would reduce to 0 as x gets really big. So, the slant asymptote is y equals 0.0878182x plus 0.479008. It'll be really great if we could draw the graph of Athena's function, and we are actually really close to being able to do that. First however, I'd like to know what domain makes sense for the concert hall situation. This is the original equation we had, written in a slightly different form, since I've Factored out a two from both the numerator and the denominator. It's important to remember here what our variables stand for. T of course is the reverberation time, measured in seconds as a matter of fact. And X here more importantly, stands for the depth of the stage in the concert hall measured in feet. So what restrictions based on what x stands for, do we need to place on the values of x, or on the domain? Use your common sense here. We need to have x greater than 0 here, since x is measuring length in feet. We also don't want a stage that is 0 feet deep, then we wouldn't have a stage at all. I know that you've been absolutely dying to see the graph of our famous reverberation time function. So here it is, now notice that I've ignored the restrictions brought on by the application. That's going to let us look at the function as a whole. Otherwise we'd only be looking at these positive values of x, and that wouldn't be quite as interesting. What are the domain and the range of the entire function T? I've given you 2 options for each. You can either say that the domain of the range is all the real numbers, or you can say that it's all the real numbers, except for certain values. If you pick the second option, I'd like you to fill in those values that either X or T cannot equal. Looking back at our original equation, the two values of x that make the denominator of our function equal to 0, are 0 and negative 50 over 11. Just as we found earlier on. since the domain is all real numbers execpt for those values, the range is just all the real numbers. There's nothing that T can't equal. Remember our old friend, the function f of x equals 4 over x minus 1? Well, what are its domain and range? Since that's what we've been talking about. I've given you three options each for the domain and for the range. Remember that the asymptotes here are x equals 1 and y equals 0. The domain is all real numbers except for 1, and the range is all real numbers except for 0. In this case, the function does not cross its horizontal asymptote. The first time you saw rational expressions in this course, was way early on when we looked at rational inequalities. At this point I think we've setup a great framework for us to understand rational inequalities a lot better than we did before. So let's look at one now. How about this one. 2x minus 3 over x minus 5 is greater than 0. Now I'd like us to find the solution set for this inequality. All of the values of x that make this inequality true. To refresh your memory on how to do this, first I'd like you to find the critical values for this inequality. The values for x that make either the denominator or the numerator equal 0. These critical values split the number line into intervals. So check a value within each interval to see if it satisfies the inequality. Based on this, you can write the solution in inequality form. Remember that you can write backslash or and then a space, if you want to join inequalities or chain them together, if there's more than one region in the solution. Write your answer in this green box. The critical values for this inequality are x equals 3 halves, and x equals 5. So this splits the number line into three different intervals. Lets pick a value from each interval and test it. From over here on the left, I'll pick 0. And if I plug that in, I end up with a negative number over a negative number, or a positive number which is greater than 0. So yes, this interval checks off. If I pick a number in this middle region, like three, then they'll end up with a positive number over a negative number, which makes a negative number, which is not greater than 0. So this interval does not work. Over on the right, plugging in six for x does check out. So this region should be shaded as well. On a number line then, our solution looks like this. With of course, rounded open brackets showing that 5 and 3 halves are not included. Written as an inequality then, our solution should be x is less than 3 halves joined with x is greater than 5. But this inequality is intimiatly related to a rational function. Logically, that rational function, is just 2 x minus 3, over x minus 5, equals f of x of course. Let's just take a second to look at this rational function on it's own then. See if there are any vertical, horizontal, or slant asimtotes for this function. If there are no asymptotes of one of these types, simply type the word none in its box. Otherwise we're going to need equations of lines here. Our vertical asymptote is x equals 5. Our horizontal asymptote is y equals 2. And because we have a horizontal asymptote, we don't have any slant asymptotes. Since we already found it's asymptotes, I've gone ahead and given you the graph of this function. f of x equals 2x minus 3 over x minus 5. We still have, haven't shown how the solution set of the inequality related to this relates to our function. Remember that the inequality we were working with was 2x minus 3 over x minus 5 is greater than 0. What line do you think we need to add to our graph to help us figure out how the solution of this inequality relates to this function over here? Shall we draw the line x equals 0, y equals 0, x equals 5, or y equals 2? We need to draw the line y equals 0 as well, since our inequality has the function set as greater than 0. I've gone in and drawn that line that we said we should add y equals 0. So now we're in the perfect place to finally figure out the connection between our rational function here, and the solution set of this inequality. In fact, the connection is that the x coordinates of some points on the plane over here, represent the solution set of this inequality. Which points are those? Is it all points above y equals 0? All points below y equals 0? All points on the function itself, all points on the function above y equals 0, or all points on the function below y equals 0. We can find these points by looking at the curve of the function above the line y equals 0. And look at this, the boundaries of those intervals are here at x equals 3 halves, where the graph is intersecting y equals 0. And here at the vertical asymptotes of x equals 5, those were our critical values. All the x coordinates of this part of the function and all of the x coordinates of this part of the function will satisfy our inequality. Awesome. Grant has recruited Athena, with all of her experience designing things, to create a new logo for the Gleaming Glasses company. It's going to have a pair of glasses on it, of course, and Athena wants to make sure that the glasses are exactly symmetric. Now, she really likes the look of the function f of x equals x to the 4th, what I have graphed right here. So, she's trying to figure out how to use it to make the glasses. We need to figure out how to help Athena transform this function. Flip it over, move it from side to side, like this, and also move it up and move it down. All these different kinds of transformations are definitely going to be required for the design of this logo. Let's help her out. Let's start thinking back to the different ways that we transformed parabolas before. And then maybe we'll be able to generalize this to work with other functions. As we've seen so many times before, here's the graph of f of x equals x squared. What would happen to our graph though, if we changed the equation? For example, let's say I want to change it to f of x equals x squared minus 2. What direction would the graph shift in? Up, down, left, or right, and by how many units? The answer is that the graph would shift down by 2 units. We can see that that's happened in the graph over here. This was the original function, f of x equals x squared. And this is the transformed one, f of x equals x squared minus 2. So, subtracting 2 shifts us down 2. Interesting. You probably remember this from the section on the section on [UNKNOWN] earlier on in the course but it never hurts to do some review. In the last quiz, we transformed the function f of x equals x squared, into the function f of x equals x squared minus 2. And we saw that the way this affects our graph is, it moves it down by 2 units. We called this a vertical shift downward. But remember, we're trying to help Athena with her function. And I'm not sure yet if we're going to need to move things vertically. We do know, however, that she's going to want to move her function horizontally. So why don't we try that for a second. So let's say that, once again, we start out with the function, f of x equals x squared. This time however, I know that I want to get a graph that's exactly the same as this one, but shifted over to the right by 3 units. What equation do I need for this new graph? Please write it right here. To shift our graph to the right by 3, we need to replace x in the original equation for the original graph, with x minus 3. So we end up with f of x equals the quantity x minus 3, squared. Now you also could of course write y equals the quantity x minus 3 squared. Now that we've seen a couple of different transformations, let's look at several at once. Each of these equations represents some sort of transformation of our original graph, f of x equals x squared 2. What I would like you to do is match the letter next to each of these equations over here with the way that it transforms this function. Then, if there's any missing information like the number of units the graph has shifted by, please fill that in as well. One thing to note is this last choice down here, reflected in the x axis. What this means is that if we have our standard x,y axis here, we have some curve drawn like this, maybe a sort of parabola. If it's reflected in the x axis, that means it's been flipped across the X axis or flipped over the x axis, like this. So, this graph below would be a reflection in the x axis of the one above. Now it's up to figure out what equation makes that happen. Good luck. Here are our answers. Equation e, would shift our graph up by 6 units, that's why we have a plus 6 outside the original function. And if you want to shift down instead, you need to subtract. In this case, we're subtracting by 1 with equation d. Equation c, which of the graph left by five units since we're adding to x. And graph a would do essentially the opposite, it would shift the graph right, this time, by four units. Finally, graph b here, f of x equals negative x squared, represents that reflection in the x-axis of the original graph. This negative sign out in front of the original function takes all of the function values of the original graph and flips them across the x-axis, makes them negative. Now, we know how easy it is to transform a function in a lot of different ways. We can make a graph move to the left, we can make it move to the right. We can make it move up, and we can make it move down, too. We can even flip it upside down, amazing. Now, we know that this kind of flipping is called a reflection in the x-axis since the x-axis is the line that we're flipping the graph across. However, we have this other axis, too, the y-axis. What do you think a reflection in the y-axis would look like? And how do we make that happen in our equation for a function? The function that we were just looking at and that I was just transforming is this black one right here, f of x equals the square root of x. Now, graphs A and B here are graphs of different functions, functions that are different transformations of this original function. Which one represents this function reflected in the x-axis? And which one, for instance this function, reflected in the y-axis? Please fill in A or B in each of these boxes. Since graph A is exactly the same as this function except flipped across the x-axis, it represents a reflection of f of x in the x-axis. Graph B is identical to f of x, except flipped across the y-axis. So, it represents a reflection in the y-axis. Cool. We have all sorts of mirror images all over the place. But how in general do reflections like the ones we were just looking at show up in equations? Well, as a simple system to work with, let's just look at these three points for now. You have the point 1,1, the point 4,2, and the point 9,3. If we take these three points and reflect them in the x-axis, what new points will we end up with? Please write the coordinates of each point in their reflection that corresponds to each original point. Remembering that these three points that lie above the X axis, were the points we started out with. These three below the X axis are the ones we and up with, after reflection in the x-axis. Their coordinates are (1,-1), (4,-2) and (9,-3). What pattern do you notice between the original points and those that are reflected in the x-axis? How do each of the coordinates change? First start out with a general point. Let's call it x comma y. What point will I end up with after reflection in the x-axis? Fill in the new coordinates right here. As we can see from the three points we looked at first, the x-coordinate of our point is not going to change. It's still going to just be x. The y-coordinate however, needs to switch signs, since we have positive y here, we need negative y here. We just saw that in order to reflect points in the x axis, we need to switch any y coordinates to negative y. And in fact, this is exactly what we do with functions as well. So for example, if we start out with the function we were looking at before, y equals the root of x. Then in order to reflect this in the x axis, we need to switch y to be negative y, which will gives us the equation negative y equals the square root of x. What I'd like you to do is to rewrite this equation. Negative y equals the square root of x, so that y is all by itself on the left hand side of the equation. So you'll end up with y equals something. What goes on the right hand side? To transform negative y equals the root of x, so that y is by itself on the left hand side, we need to multiply both sides of the equation by negative one. Then we end up with this, y equals negative square root x. So, just like we saw before with polynomials, negating the entire function, or in other words, the entire expression involving x flips the graph upside down. Or in other words, reflects it in the x axis. When we reflected this function in the x axis, we ended up with a new equation, this one. So we can see that all that we did was replace the square root of x by negative square root x. Now in terms of functions, if we said that our original equation was y equals f of x, then what we see with our reflection in the x axis is y equals negative f of x. Reflection in the X axis just involves negating the entire function that we're working with. But what about reflection in the y-axis, we've seen one example of a graph showing that before, but what happens with the equation? Well, going back to our three simple points that we saw before, where did they end up if we reflected them in the y-axis? Please fill in the coordinates of the new reflected points here The points we will end up with after a reflection in the y axis, are negative 1, 1, negative 4, 2 and negative 9, 3. This means that for some general point, x,y, a reflection in the y axis produces what new point? Please write in, its coordinates here. This time, it's our x coordinate that changes. The y coordinate stays the same, but the x coordinate becomes negative x instead of x. We can see this happening in our graph. All the y values of these corresponding points are the same, but their x values have been made negative, since we flipped across the y axis. We just saw that in order for a function to undergo a reflection in the y-axis, we need to replace x in the original function with negative x. So going back to our equation, y equals the root of x, if we want to reflect the graph of this function in the y-axis, what do we need to replace with what in the equation? And what final equation will that give us? To reflect the graph of y equals the square root of x in the y-axis, we need to replace x with negative x, which gives us a final equation of y equals the square root of negative x Let's put our new understanding of transforming functions to use, and try to graph some interesting equations. If we take the function f of x equals negative x minus one cubed. We can compare it to the function f of x equals x cubed, to help us figure out how this function might look when it's graphed, since we already know what this one looks like. So, first things first. What is the minus 1 right here doing? Please fill in this sentence properly to tell me about this transformation. Which direction does this replacement shift the graph and by how many units. Replacing x with x minus 1 in any function will move the graph to the right by 1 unit. So far, we've figured out how to do one transformation to f of x equals x cubed. We've shifted it to the right by one unit. However, we know that this wasn't the function we were actually looking to end up with. We wanted f of x equals negative x -1 cubed. So, what does this negative sign out front do? This negative sign is going to cause our function to be reflected in some way. But which axis will it be reflected in? Please write either x or y in this box. Putting a negative sign out in front of the entire function means we're going to reflect the function in the x-axis. Let's take a look at our graphs, finally. So here we have our progression starting with our first function, f(x) equals x cubed. Then we translate it to the right by 1. To give us f of x equals the quantity x minus 1 cubed. And then finally, we reflect this in the x axis, giving us f of x equals negative x minus 1 cubed. Recently, we've been predicting changes in graphs based on changes in equations. So let's work the other way around for a second. Here's the graph of a function. I'm going to call this graph A. And I'd like us to consider this our original graph. Now, graph B over here is a transformed version of graph A. Now, I didn't size these graphs perfectly, so B's a little bit shrunk. But the only thing that's happening. In order for graph A, to become graph B. Is first, it's shifted in some direction. Either right, left, up, or down. By some number of units. And then it's reflected. Either in the x axis. Or in the y axis. I would like you to feel in the sentence properly. To describe this transformation, from A to B. First graph A was shifted to the right by 1 unit. We can see that based on where the x intercepts are in graph A. They're at negative 2, negative 1, 1 and 2. And then in graph B they're at negative 1, 0, 2 and 3. So they all shifted over by 1 to the right. The final transformation that's happening here is the graph is reflected in the x axis. We can see that here, the ends are both pointing upward, and here they're both pointing downward. We've seen how to make horizontal and vertical shifts happen for all sorts of functions. And we've also seen how to reflect in the x and y axis. These types of transformations are typically refererred to as rigid transformations, because the basic shape of the graph doesn't change. All we're doing is translating it around the coordinate plane. Or flipping it over. Only its position changes. We can also, however, have nonrigid transformations. These involve the stretching or shrinking of a function. Nonrigid transformations distort the shape of the original function. We're going to deal with this stretching and shrinking with something familiar right now. Parabolas. Here are a bunch of parabolas that have been stretched in different ways. I'd like you to match each one with the equation it corresponds to. Please write the letter of the parabola in the proper box. Graph A is represented by the equation y equals 1/3 x squared, B goes with y equals 1/2 x squared, C goes with y equals 3x squared, D is y equals 2x squared, and E is y equals x squared. Now, before when we talked about parabolas, we said that changing the coefficient out in front of the x squared changed the width of the parabola. Putting a fraction out in front, like 1 3rd or one half, made the graph really wide. And putting a bigger number like 2 or 3, a number greater than 1 as the coefficient, made the graph skinnier, like we see in C and D. However, let's think about this from a vertical point of view instead now. Instead of thinking about these as making graphs wider or skinnier, we can think about these coefficients actually making the graph taller or shorter. Changing this coefficient, changes what the y value is going to be for any given x value. Graph E down here, is our parent problem, y equals x squared. While we see that point 2 comma 4, here. On graph B, we can see that when the x coordinate is 2, the y coordinate is not all the way up at 4. It's only halfway as tall. You can imagine that if I drew a vertical line going from the x-axis all the way up to where the line meets the graph, we can compare how tall graphs are to one another by picking the same x value and then seeing how tall that line is. How many units in the y direction it takes to hit our graph. But, what determines if a graph is stretching, like in graph D, or shrinking like in graph B? Remember, this is in the y direction, the vertical direction. Something clearly has to happen in their equations to make this happen in their graphs. Lets use good old y equals x squared, as our starting point, the function that we're going to transform. When x squared, in this function, is multiplied by a value that is greater than zero but less than one, will the graph be vertically stretched or vertically shrunk? Now, on the other hand, if x squared is multiplied by a value that is greater than 1, what will happen to the graph? Multiplying x squared in this function, by a number greater than 1, makes it grow taller. So this is a vertical stretch. We can see this happening here in the equation y equals 2 x squared. On the graph of y equals x squared we get the point 2, 4, but on the graph of y equals 2 x squared, we got the point 2, 8. It's not quite on our graph but you can tell this has been stretched upward by a factor of 2. This graph is taller than this one. Now on the other hand, if we multiply x squared instead by a number that is still positive but is less than one, then the graph will be vertically shrunk. Like this graph, y equals 1 half x squared. Here instead of the 0.24 that we see on this graph, we have the 0.2,2. It's only half as tall. We've been working with parabolas quite a bit. So let's play with some cubic functions for a minute. There are two right here. We have the graphs of f of x equals x cubed, this green curve, and g of x equals 3x cubed, this red curve. Now what I'd like you to do is write the equation of a function whose graph will lie between these two graphs. And we'll still intersect the origin. We're going to call this graph h of x. Let me show you an example of what h of x might look like since there are a number of different equations that it could be. So h of x might look something like this purple line. Think about how we need to stretch or shrink f of x to make it lookmore like h of x. There are actually a ton of different right answers for what h of x could be. The actual equation I graphed over here is h of x equals three halves x cubed. Instead of this three halves though, you could have any coefficient. Maybe lets call that coefficient A for now. That's between the values of 1 and 3. We want h of x to be stretched taller than f of x but not quite as tall as g of x. Let's finally get back to helping Athena. She knows that she wants to build her glasses frame logo using the shape of y equals x to the 4th. However, she wants the center of her glasses frame to be at the origin. So, she's figured out she needs to move this function to the right and down one, to create the bottom half of the right side of the frame. That should give her this graph. So this area right here will be the bottom of the right side of the frame, however we need the equation of this function. Please write the right-hand side of the equation here, I've already given you the left-hand side, it's just y. To move the function to the right by one unit. We need to replace the x. In the original function with x minus 1. So at that point, with just the translation to the right. We have y equals the quantity x minus 1 to the 4th. Now to move down by one unit. We need to subtract 1. So this is our final equation. For this graph over here. Y equals x minus 1 to the 4th minus 1. Athena is one quarter of the way done with designing her logo. She has the bottom half of the right-hand side of the frame. But how can she complete it? What equation do we need for the top half? So what then is the equation of this function, which is the reflection in the X axis of this equation. Please write the right-hand side of the new function right here. Reflecting in the x axis requires replacing y with negative y. Which means negating the entire function. So I've made the whole right side of the function negative. Now we could also of course distribute this negative to the two terms that we have. That would give us negative, the quantity x minus1 to the 4th, plus 1. Either way works. We're now half way there. We have the equations of two of the lines that we are going to need to help Athena design her glasses logo. This is the right-hand side of the frame. And the other half of the frame should just be exactly like this one, simply reflected in the y-axis. So, here are the two functions we've already found. And over here, I'd like you to just write the right-hand side of each of their reflections in the y-axis. So, these are the two functions that are represented on the left-hand side of the graph over here. To make a reflection in the Y axis happen, we simply need to replace x in our original function with negative x in the transformed function. So, here are the four functions that Athena needs to make her final glasses frame logo. This is pretty cool. With a couple of domain restrictions and a few other functions added in, she could complete her picture like this. Or maybe she'd rather let the functions themselves complete the glasses. Of course, adding in a couple of other lines and points for wipers and nozzles. Either way, I think we've seen just how powerful transformation of different kinds of functions can be. You've learned about shifts, horizontally and vertically, reflections in the X-axis and the Y-axis, and stretches and shrinks in the vertical direction. These are all super powerful tools that can be used with any kind of function. Awesome job. I'm sure Grant will be very pleased with this logo. We've already learned about Athena's internship at the architecture firm. But she also has another part-time job, tutoring. Her job at the firm pays her $2000 every month. So, let's use a function to represent the total amount that she makes from this job in x months. That will give us f of x equals 2,000 x. She makes about $1,000 a month from tutoring. So, we can say that g of x, the total amount of money she's made from tutoring, equals 1,000 x. Where x is still number of months. So, how much does Athena make, in total each month? Now if we say that h of x, is equal to the total amount of money, that Athena has made after x months, then what expression is that equal to? H of x should equal 3000x, since Athena makes $3000 a month, 2000 plus 1000. So now we know, we can find Athena's total income after x months using our function h here. H of x equals 3000x. So let's think a bit more abstractly about this. What do we do to our two original functions f and g to end up with this final function h. Did we add them together? Multiply them together? Subtract them, or divide them? We added them, so this first choice is correct. The total salary, which is what h of x represents is just the sum of the two salaries from the individual jobs, f and g. 2000x plus 1000x, gives us 3000x. Now, addition and subtraction work really similarly. Here, I've given you two functions. We have f of x equals 2x cubed minus 2x squared. And g of x equals x cubed plus x squared. Now, for these two functions, can you tell me what we get if we add f of x to g of x? And then secondly, what happens if we say, f of x minus g of x. Make sure that you simplify your answers as much as possible. For each equation we have here, we just need to substitute in the expression we have for each of the functions, and then combine like terms. When we do this, we end up with for part a, the addition 3x cubed minus x squared, and for part b, where we have f of x minus g of x, we end up with x cubed minus 3x squared. Function addition and subtraction happen all the time. For each of these examples down here, please tell me whether you'd be more likely to add or subtract the functions that involved. First we have calculating profit, or p of x, for money earned, which is r of x, and money spent, c of x. Second, we have calculating change in population, or q of t, from the number of births, b of t and the number of deaths, d of t. And finally, calculating the total production of two factories, f of x, from their individual productions, which we will call g of x and h of x. We will need to subtract functions, for the first two examples, and add them to the last one. Now we've looked at addition and subtraction of functions, but what about multiplication and division? Let's say that we have f of x equals x plus 1. And g of x equals 2x minus 5? What then would f of x times g of x be? Please simplify your answer. Hopefully, this gave you a nice little review of polynomial multiplication. I'm sure that you remembered exactly how to distribute correctly. When we multiply f of x times g of x, or, in other words, x plus 1 times 2x minus 5, we end up with 2x squared minus 3x minus 5. Multiplication of expressions was something we focused on, pretty early on in the course. But, division didn't come up until much more recently. Let's say this time, that f of x is equal to 2x cubed, plus 12x squared, minus 8x, minus 48. And g of x is equal to 2x minus 4. What do we get then if we say, f of x over g of x? Make sure, as before, to simplify your answer. If we divide f of x by g of x, we're dividing 2x cubed plus 12x squared minus 8x minus 48, by 2x minus 4. Going through the long division of this, gives us x squared plus 8x plus 12. So you may have noticed that I haven't actually taught you much of anything new yet. All this is really just a new notation for manipulating different kinds of expressions. However, this new notation gives us an important way to think about functions. Just like variables can be added, subtracted, multiplied and divided, so can functions. In fact, there's an even shorter, easier way of representing things like f of x plus g of x, or any of the other things I have written down here. Let me show you. And, this is all it is. If we want to add two functions, f and g, and of course they're dealing with the same variable, which in this case is x. Then we just write in parentheses, f plus g, showing that they're one combined function when we add them together like this. So we have f plus g of x. Similarly, for subtraction, we can have f minus g of x. For multiplication we just multiply f and g together inside the first parentheses, and for division, we do the same thing with dividing. If we have the functions f of x equals x, and g of x equals x squared minus x, then please tell me what we get for each of these combined functions down here. So here are the expressions we get when we combine our functions, f of x and g of x, in these different ways. G minus f of x, gives us x squared minus 2x. F plus g of x, gives us x squared. Fg of x, which remember, is the same thing as f times g of x, gives us, x cubed, minus x squared. And, last but not least, g, over f of x, gives x minus 1. It's been cool to see how we can combine functions mathematically, but what do the results of these combinations really mean? Well, to understand the relationship between the original functions and combined functions, I think we should make some graphs. Starting with something simple sounds like a good idea. Here I've drawn the graphs of f of x equals 2x plus 1, and g of x equals 3. Now, what if I wanted to add f and g together? Which of these three graphs do you think is a graph of this new function? Adding f and g would produce this graph, the middle one. Since g is just a positive constant function, y equals 3. When we add it to the function f, it's going to raise every point on this line, up by 3 units. So let's look at what's actually happening here to our two curves on this coordinate plane, to create this black line over here. What I've drawn right now, is a bunch of lines going from the x axis up to our curve. Or our line, rather, f of x. What happens graphically when we want to add 3 to the length of each of these lines, is that we're shifting them up. So that they start, instead, at the line, y equals 3. If we connect these lines now, we end up with a curve that looks just like our black line. Over there. So this line is identical to the reddish one, just with every single point translated up 3 units. This is exactly what we were talking about with transformations in the last lesson. Working with the same two functions as the last quiz, what if we want to subtract one of these functions from the other? One of these three graphs represents f minus g of x, and another one of them is g minus f of x. Which one is which? In this top row of bubbles, please select f minus g. And in the bottom row, please pick which one is g minus f. I wanted to keep the functions written here for you. I'd recommend thinking about this graphically, but if you need to work with the equations of the functions, and combine them mathematically first, before you pick the graphs, that's also totally fine. This first graph represents f minus g of x, and this last graph represents g minus f of x. For f minus g here, we see something very similar to what happened when we added f and g together. Since we're just subtracting a constant function from this linear one, we end up with the same exact graph as f. We can see that this line is parallel to this one, except this one is shifted down three units. G minus f is a bit more complicated. In this case, we're subtracting our linear function from our constant one. This means that the resulting graph isn't just going to be a shift of f. Instead, for each value of x. [INAUDIBLE]. We measure from the x axis to the line of f. Then, we look at the graph of g. And we move it down by the positive distances between the x axis and f, shown by these lines right here. And up by those distances between the x axis and the part of f that lay below it. We're adding this positive distance because we were subtracting a negative one before. If we connect the tops of all these lines together, we can see that we will end up with a graph that looks just like this one, to the far right. What's interesting, is that now our slope is negative. It's not positive or zero, like either of our two original functions. Let's look at two different functions now, but still nothing too complicated. I like these two. Here we have p of x, equals x plus 4. And q of x, equals negative 2x minus 5. So here are three graphs. Which one represents p plus q, which one is p minus q, and which one shows q minus p? Now to figure this out, think about how much each line should be moved up or down at each x value, based on the value of the other function at that same position. Another way, of course, to figure this question out, will be to use the equations right here, of p and q, to figure out the equations of the other lines. Then you can use those to pick the graphs. Here are our solutions. This middle graph shows p plus q. The far right one shows p minus q. And this furthest left one shows q minus p. Now, this is quite similar to what we did before, except that this time, as we can see, both of our original lines have non zero slope. Adding the lines happens pretty much the same way as we did it before. All of these additions and subtractions. Cna happen the same way graphically, as we dealt with them before. It just feels a little bit more complicated because our have non zero slopes. Adding the two line, works just as it did before. And we can see that connecting these lines gives us, what looks like the middle graph. Because we're adding different length lines to all these different points along the graph of q. We're going to end up with a line whose slope is different from either p or q. Now, of course, I could have done this the other way around and drawn lines up to q and added those to p. Either way would give us the same result. We can see, however, that switching the order of subtraction, changes the graphs that we get. Since we've been adding and subtracting functions so much, this time why don't we multiply. I'd like us to keep using the same functions we've been working with, p and q. Instead of jumping right into graphing though, why don't we start by filling out a table. For each value of x I've listed here, please tell me the value of each of these functions. We have p of x in this column, q of x in this column, and pq of x in this column. Remember that for every value of x, the value of this function is just the product of p and q. Here is a filled out version of our table. I simply plugged in each value of x, into either of our two functions over here, to fill out these first two columns. Then to fill out the last column pq of x. I just multiplied the two numbers in the cells adjacent to it together. Negative one times five is negative five. Zero times three is zero, and so on and so forth. Thinking about the numbers we have in our lovely chart over here. And about what kind of functions p and q are, linear ones. What kind of curve do you think pq of x is? Is it a vertical line, a horizontal line, a straight line with a nonzero slope, a parabola or a cubic curve? Pq of x is a parabola. Thinking about the graphs of p and q, this makes sense. Since they are both linear functions, if we multiply two linear expressions together, we get a quadratic one, which produces a parabola. We can also see this in the table, the curve starts down low at negative 5, comes up, and then drops back down again. Let's look at its actual graph. Here, once again, are our graphs of p and q. And then here is the graph pq. What a nice parabola. Now that we have our graph, what is the equation of this parabola? Please write the rest of it's equation in this box. To get the equation for pq, we just need to multiply p and q together. So we have x plus 4 times negative 2x minus 5. I would prefer to simplify this, so lets do that. That leaves us with negative 2x squared minus 13x minus 20. Just to round things out, how about we divide p and q. In fact, lets get two different functions out of this. First I'd like you to find p over q of x, and then I'd like you to find q over p of x. P over q of x, is x plus 4, over negative 2x minus 5. And q over p of x, is negative 2x minus 5, over x plus 4. The functions both p over q, and q over p, are both rational functions. Please figure out where their vertical and horizontal asymptotes are, and then pick, which of these three graphs represents each one. From the function p over q, we can see from the denominator that the vertical asymptote is x equals negative 5 half's. The horizontal asymptote from our leading coefficients, is y equals negative 1 half. The graph that has these asymptotes is graph C right here. Moving on to our second function, q over p of x, the vertical asymptote is x equals negative 4. The horizontal asymptote is y equals negative 2, and that means that this goes with graph B. Everything so far has been fairly similar to things that you've already seen. We have just produced different polynomial functions and rational functions through combining functions in different ways. But, now I think we should do something totally new. Way back when we first started talking about functions I showed you a little visual. I think it looked like this. It was a function machine that takes an input and spits out an output. For example, we could write a function that relates the number of wiper sets that Grant has sold, let's call it N, to the amount of money he makes in the end, his revenue, which we'll find using the function R. So, for example, if people spend $15 on a wiper set, Then R of N will equal 15N. We can see that this function machine is taking in N as its input, and spitting out R of N or 15N as its output. Now, if Grant is trying to increase his revenue, or increase R, then he obviously wants to increase the number of wiper sets that he sells. So how does he do that? Well, as we saw before, the number of wiper sets that he sells, N, is a function of the amount of money that he spends on advertising, which I'll call d. Both revenue and money spent on advertising are going to be measured in dollars. So now we have that R is a function of N and N is a function of d. So how are R and N and d all related to one another? We should be able to then draw a function diagram that represents this relationship. Which one of these diagrams do you think is correct? Don't worry at all if this seems tricky. This is definitely pushing the boundaries of our understanding of functions. This diagram is correct. It initially takes d N as it's input and then gives N of d as an output. Then N of d acts as the input for the second machine, which spits out R of N of d. That's pretty cool. I know this notation probably looks kind of funny right now but we'll learn all about it, in the next few videos. Grant has figured out that the function that relates N to d, is N of d equals 4 times the square root of d. Remembering what N and d stand for, how many wiper sets will Grant sell if he spends $100 on advertising? He will sell 40 wiper sets. All we have to do is find N of 100, since d stands for a dollar spent on advertising. That will just give us 4 times the square root of 100, or 4 times 10. Using the result of the last quiz, in our function R of N, how much revenue will Grant make if he spends $100 on advertising? Don't forget the result we just came up with. We just saw that if Grant spends $100 in advertising, he'll make 40 glasses wiper sets. To figure out his revenue, once he sells all of these. We just need to plug in 40 for n into the function, r of n. R of 40 equals 15 times 40, which gives us a revenue of $600. What if instead Grant spends $400 in advertising? How much revenue will he make then? This time we have to start from scratch. Plugging in 400 for d, in our equation N of d, 4 times the square root of 400 gives us 80, so it looks like he's going to make 80 glass swipers. Now, this output access the input to our second function for R. R of 80 is just 15 times 80, that gives us 1200, which means that Grant will make $1,200 in revenue. What we've used here is called a Composite Function. R is a function of N, but N is a function of d. So it ends up that R is actually a function of d. That's really awesome. We'll come back to see example with the revenue and numbers in a bit, but first let's talk about composite functions in general. To do this, I think we need a fresh set of functions, so how about these two, f of x equals x squared and g of x equals x minus one. When we talk about composition of functions, this means that we're combining two functions in a special way. We take the results, the output, of one function, and substitute that in, as the input of the other function. For example, if I want to find f of g of x, I would plug in the function g of x Everywhere I see a x in f. So in the case of these functions, the output of g of x is x minus one. So that's going to be the input of f. That means that f of g of x is really just f of x minus one. So what expression do we get to complete this comoposite function? We just need to plug in x minus 1 in place of x, in the function f of x. That gives us the quantity, x minus 1 squared. There's a slightly different notation that's often used for composite functions. Instead of writing f of g of x. We can write this, which we read as f composed with g of x. These two notations mean exactly the same thing. Since we already found f of g of x, or in other words F composed with G. Can you tell me what G composed with F is? In other words, I'm asking you what g of f of x is for these two functions? If we want to find g of f of x, then we want to use the output of f as the input of g. This means we just want g of x squared, which gives us x squared minus 1. By now you've seen a few different examples of composite functions. And for one pair of functions we found both, f composed with g, and g composed with f. What I'm wondering is if order matters. Does it matter if f is the outer function and g is the inner function, or vice versa? In other words is the output of these two composite functions the same. Well we're going to test that for a bunch of different pairs of functions. In the first column over here, we have what I'm going to call function one. And over here function two. For each pair, please find f of g and then g of f. And then pick whether or not they're the same. Now I know that for some of these it doesn't actually look like we're doing any math. These bottom three functions are all modeling real life situations. But we can still think of them as functions. They all produce a certain outcome and I'm wondering if the order we do these actions in, changes the final outcome of the situation. So, f of g, for this first case here, where f is putting on left shoe, and g is putting on your right shoe, would mean putting on your right shoe and then putting on your left shoe. Whereas g of f, would be putting on your left shoe, and then putting on your right shoe. So again, just consider if the order we apply either of these functions in, affects the end situation. Let's go through and figure out what each of the composite functions for every pair here would be. Then we can answer whether or not they're the same. For this first pair we have f of x equals x squared, and g of x equals x plus 1. That means that f composed with g would give us x plus 1 squared. But if we have g composed with f, then instead, we get x squared, plus 1. These are not the same, so let's check no. For the next one we have f of x, equals x plus 1, and g of x equals x plus 2, and in this case both of our compositions are the same. It doesn't matter. Whether we add 2 and then 1, or 1 and then 2 to x. In both cases, we end up with x plus 3. So, lets check yes for this one. Interesting, and now for the fun part. Is putting on your left shoe, and then putting on your right shoe, going to give you the same outcome as putting on your right shoe, and then putting on your left shoe? Well in both cases, you're going to end up with both shoes on your feet. So, yes. F of g, and g of f, are the same. Now, we have one function, as putting on your shoes, and the other as putting on your socks. So, is putting on your socks and then your shoes, the same as putting on your shoes and then your socks? Well, in one case, we end up with a pretty normal situation, socks underneath shoes. In the other case, though, when we have shoes underneath our socks, You'd probably be pretty uncomfortable. Your socks might not even fit over your shoes. Either ways, socks underneath shoes or shoes underneath socks, are not the same thing. So we're going to have to check no on this one. And last but not least, we have two functions that are getting dressed and taking a shower. Now, one of these seems to produce a pretty normal everyday activity. You take a shower and then you get dressed. But, what if we did things the other way around? I, for one, would be pretty sad if I put on my favorite dress and then got in the shower and got myself soaking wet. That would not be a great start to my day. So I think we can safely say that taking a shower, and then getting dressed, is very different from getting dressed, and then taking a shower. So no, the two compositions of these functions that we could do are not the same. So clearly order mattres a lot. go f of x and f of g of x, using these two equations give us completely different expressions. We need to be super careful which function we're using as the input for the other one. What if our functions were f of x equals x squared minus four? And g of x equals the square root of 4 minus x squared. Then what will we get for f of g of x or f composed of g? This time, we need to use the output of the function g of x, so the square root of 4 minus x squared, as the input into f of x. That means we need to square the expression for g of x and then subtract 4. Let's see what happens. Squaring a square root just gives us what's underneath the radical sign. So we get four minus x squared minus 4. It means out answer is just negative x squared. Now if you want to eventually grap composite functions, we're going to need to consider their domains. Before I ask you what the domain of f of g of x is, lets do a quick review of domain. As we've talked about many times before, domain just means allowable inputs. It's a set of values that you can plug in for the independent variable into your function. For example, with these functions we've been dealing with recently, the domain of f of x is all the real numbers. We can plug in any real number for x. And get a real number out from the function. Now, can you tell me what the domain of g of x, where g of x equals the square root of 4 minus x squared is? Please write this in interval notation. The interval we need here goes from negative 2 to 2 and includes both of these inputs. If we plug in any number outside of this interval into our function, the number that we'll get under the square root sign will be negative. We're looking for real numbers here, not imaginary ones, so that's not going to work for us. None of those kinds of inputs will be allowed. You can see we have a pretty restricted domain here. So, what do you think the domain of f of g of x is? Well, you may be tempted to say all the real numbers since we found earlier that f composed of g equals negative x squared. But I'll tell you right now that all real numbers is not the Cartesian answer. Think about how we created f of g of x and you may come up with the answer. I'll give you a hint that you should probably consider the domain of the input and think about how that's going to affect the domain of our composite function. This is definitely a challenge problem so if you don't get it, no big deal. And the answer is the same as in the last quiz. Our interval goes from negative 2 to 2, inclusive. How interesting. Let's talk about how we got that tricky last answer. For composite functions, the domain of f composed with g is all the x values in the domain of g that lead to g of x values that are in the domain of f. Well, what on earth does that mean? That's definitely a mouthful. But basically it means that in order for a number to be in the domain of this composite function, it must be in the domain of the inner function g in this case, and in the domain of the composite function itself. If we have f of x equals one over x squared and g of x equals the square root of x, then what is f composed with g. And what is the domain of that composite function. Please write this in inequality notation. First things first, f of g of x is just 1 over x since we're squaring a square root. So looking at this, we already know that 0 can't be in the domain of our composite function but we also know, looking at our function g, that negative numbers can't be in the domain since we can't take their square roots. So that means our domain should just be all the positive numbers. In other words, 0 is less than x or x is greater than 0. Composition of functions also shows how different functions are related to one another. In fact, sometimes it can be helpful to figure out how we might write functions as compositions of other functions. For instance, let's say we have the function h of x equals x plus 3 squared. I'd like to find two functions f and g, such that, f of g of x is equal to h of x. What do you think these two functions could be? Now, I personally think this is a hard problem, but it's not a big deal at all if this takes you few tries. Just think about what operations are being performed here on x to give us h of x. And think about what order we have to do them in and therefore what functions correspond to those different operations. At the end, check your answer, by plugging in what you have for g of x. As the input of f, and see if you end up with h of x. The first thing that's happening to x, is we're adding 3 to it. So that means that g of x our inner fraction down here, should be x plus 3. After that, that quantity is squared. So our order function here, f of x should be x squared. I think this really highlights the fact that h of x, represents a transformation of x squared. A shift of x squared by 3 to left. Let's see if we can do another one. What if we have h of x equals one over x squared plus three? If we want to write this as f of g of x, what are g and f? Now just to tell you, there isn't only one right answer here. See if you can find more than one. This is the perfect chance to use some creative thinking and play around with your math. So, we actually have two right answers in this case. One set of answers could be, f of x equals x plus 3, and g of x equals 1 over x squared. These two functions, when composed, will give us, f of g of x equals 1 over x squared plus 3, exactly what we're looking for. Our other option is this set, here we have f of x equals 1 over x plus 3, and g of x equals x squared. This shows us that there are different ways to dissect functions and write them instead as compositions of other functions. Even though composition of functions probably felt quite new at the beginning of this lesson, you've actually been doing it since the very first lesson of this course. There, we came up with an equation for the amount of money that Grant has left at any given time. Initially, we said that the money Grant has left Is equal to the money he got from his venture capital funders, minus the total amount of money he spent so far. Here, we're using dollar amounts for all these different quantities. Then, however, we found out that money spent changed as time passed. Then we got a second equation, showing that the total amount of money spent is equal to the money Grant spends per month times the number of months that have passed, or the number of months he's been in business. Let's get some variables and numbers back in here, to make everything look a bit cleaner. Let's say that the money Grant has left is called M. And as we knew before, he started out with $3 million from his venture capitalists. Let's also give total money spent a new name, like S. Well that looks way nicer. We can see M is actually a function of S. It depends on S. So I'm going to change this left side of the equation to read M of S. But, S itself is a function of the number of months that have passed. Since Grant spends a set amount iof money per month, that monthly spending number was $100,000. So if we say that number of months is just equal to n, then we have another function. S equals 100,000 n. And actually, since S is a function of n, we should rewrite this side over here. This should say S of n. Making it abundantly clear that as n changes, S is going to change as well. Taking all this into account, what do we get for M of S of n? M of s of n is just going to be 3 million minus 100000n. Consider a new composite function M of s of n equals 3,000,000 minus 100,000n. How much money will grant have left after one year in business? Since we want to know how much money Grant will have left after one year, we need to plug in 12 for n. Since n is the number of months that have past. So m of s of 12 equals 3 million minus 100,000 times 12. Simplifying gives us 1 million 800,000. So grant will have $1.8 million left after one year in business. To make things come full circle, lets go back to the first composite function we worked with in this lesson. We started out with two equations, R(N) =15N, and, N(D)=4d This first one shows the amount of money Grants brings in depending how many glasses per sets he sells and this second one, shows how the number of glass per sets sold depends on the amount of money Grant spends for advertising So, what is (RN)(d)? or (RN)(d)? Please write the expression right here. R of N of d is equal to 15 times 4, times the square root of d, which is just equal to 60 root d. Remembering what R, N, and d stand for, how much revenue will grant bring, if he spends $1000 on advertising? Please round you answers to the nearest cent, or, in other words, to two decimal places. We need to find R of N of 1000. So that just means 60 times the square root of 1000. This is about equal to 1897.37. So this means that if Grant spends $1000 on advertising, he'll bring in $1897.37 in revenue. In this lesson, we've talked a lot about different things that functions can do, especially different ways that we can combine them with one another. Let's pretend like we have these two functions: f of x equals x cubed, and g of x equals x minus 2. We saw that we can combine these through addition by taking f plus g of x. We could also combine these through subtraction, we could either have f minus g of x, or we could have g minus f of x. These give us two different things, or at least in this case they do. We can multiply them to give us fg of x. We also found out that we could divide them. We could find f over g of x. Or g over f of x. In all these situations, we just take the outputs of each function, and combine them in the way specified. The other important concept that we introduced in this lesson was the idea of compositions of functions. This means using the output of one function as the input for another function. If we want f composed with g of x, that's the same as asking for f of g of x. Which means, that we use the output of g, as the input of f. In this case, that would give us, x minus 2 cubed. We can switch things around and go the other direction too, looking for g composed with f instead. That means we're looking for g of f of x, which in this case, will give us, x cubed minus 2. We saw that in many cases, like our showering and getting dressed example, switching the order of composition of functions produces a very different outcome, a very different output for the composite function. Remember, getting dressed and then showering is not the same as showering and then getting dressed. I hope you enjoyed expanding your understanding of functions and how they can work together. Great job. Many, many lessons ago we helped Grant choose between three different brands of glasses cleaning solution to sell along with his wiper sets. One brand that seemed like a pretty good option gave us this equation, y equals 10x plus 150. In this equation, x stands for the number of gallons of cleaning solution that Grant orders, y is equal to the total cost of the order. The solution cost $10 per gallon. And there is a flat delivery fee of $150 added on, regardless of how much solution was ordered. Before, Grant decided how much solution to order, so what x should be based pretty much just on how much he wanted or needed. When we plug that number in for x, the function would output how much it would cost him. However, Greg's being a bit more strict with his budget these days. And instead of doing things the old way, he wants to set aside a certain amount of money to spend on cleaning solution. That means that now, we probably need to switch up our equation a bit. He's going to want to calculate the amount of solution ordered based on the amount of money spent. Since now, amount ordered depends on money spent, let's switch up our variable names. If we want x to equal the total cost of the order and y to equal the amount of cleaning solution ordered, what will our equation look like now? Remember that all of our quantities are still related to each other in the same way, we're just changing their names. All we need to do is switch the position of the x and the y in the earlier equation. So now instead of y equals 10x plus 150. We have x equals 10y plus 150. That's because we just reversed our variable names. It's great that we have this new equation with variable names that are more appropriate for our situation. But this equation does look a little bit strange. We're talking about y, the amount of solution ordered. And how it depends on x, the total cost of the order. So typically, we would want y by itself on one side of the equation to show exactly how it depends on x, mathematically. If we make that happen, what will be on this other side of the equation? Modifying our equation to get y all by itself on one side of the equation gives us x over 10 minus 15 on the other side. There are of course several different ways you could write this. You could have just said 1 over 10 times x minus 150, those are equivalent. The equation we just came up with, y equals x over 10 minus 15, and the one we started out with, y equals 10x plus 150, are related to one another in a special way. To figure out what that is, I think it would be great if we plotted both of them. To get to that point, though, we need to know, well, some points on each line. Please fill out each of these x y charts to give us some of those points. Here are our filled-in versions of our tables. Looking at the numbers we wrote in for y here, and comparing them to this table, and then looking at these numbers for y. And comparing them to this table, there's definitely something pretty interesting going on here. Let's take a peek at the graphs of these functions to maybe get a better idea of what that is. Here are the graphs of our two functions. This red one shows y equals 10x plus 150, and the purplish one shows y equals x over 10 minus 15. Start to see if you can pick up a pattern relating the points on this line to the points on this line, using both the tables and the graph here. The course that you just did can help us start to see the connection between our two functions here. Let's see if we can really pin down this relationship is though. If we have a point a,b that we know allies in the function where y equals 10x plus 150. Then do we know anything about a point on our other function, y equals x over 10 minus 15. Please pick the statement that accurately completes this sentence. This second answer here is correct. If we know we have a point a,b on this function, then the point b,a will lie on this function, we can tell that from the graph right here. We have the point 0,150 and the point 150,0. These points just have their coordinates switched from one another. The same is true of all these other points we have graphed. If we take a point on the red line and simply switch its coordinates, we end up with a point on the purple line. That is really cool. Just looking at these two equations, you might never have expected that kind of close relationship. The relationship between these two functions we've been talking about has a special name. They are inverse functions of one another. As I said before, just looking at these equations, you might not have any idea right off the bat that these functions are inverses. To help make that more clear immediately, there's a special notation we can use. Let's say that we have a function that we're calling f. Then if f has an inverse, we can write that inverse like this, f with a little negative 1 up here to the right. Now we have to be super careful, when we use this notation. This does not, I repeat, does not mean 1 over f. The negative 1 here is not an exponent. You read this as f inverse, not f to the negative 1. To make sure that we're keeping everything straight. Now, let's suppose that f, in this case, is f of x equals 3x minus 1. Right away, we can plug in values for x to figure out different points on the line. I'll just pick out a few for right now. We have 0 comma negative 1. 1 comma 2, and negative 1 comma negative 4. We don't know the equation for the inverse of f quite yet, but we do know that we can denote it like this, and we actually know quite a bit more information about this, because of these points here. Based on the information we have about the function f, what points do we know will lie on f inverse? Below each of these points that lie on f, Please write the corresponding points on f inverse. To figure out each of these points, we just need to look at the point above on f and switch the order of the coordinates. So instead of 0, negative 1, we'll have negative 1,0. Instead of 1,2, we'll have 2,1. And instead of negative 1, negative 4, we'll have negative 4, negative 1. As great as those points we found are, I'd still like for us to find the equation of f inverse. How about we take this through step-by-step, since this is our first time really doing this. We know that we need to start out with this equation, the equation for f. As we've seen from graphs and points in equations before, we know that to find the inverse, we need to switch x and y in our equation. However, we don't even have a y in our equation right now. Let's get that straight right now. Please replace f of x in this equation with y, and then rewrite the equation down here. That gives us y equals 3x minus 1. Since the inverse of a function will have its x and y coordinates switched from how they were in the original function. The x's and y's must be switched in this equation, too. How about we do that next then? Please switch the position of x and y in our equation y equals 3x minus 1. Write the new equation in this box. Switching x and y here leaves us with x equals 3 y minus 1. This equation looks sort of funny though. Since y is the dependent variable, we tend to write it by itself. With an expression in x on the other side of the equation. Lets make this happen here. If we have y on this side, what belongs in this box to complete the equation? Remember, we're working off of the equation x equals 3y minus 1. Starting with x equals to 3y minus 1, we can add 1 to both sides. And then, divide both sides by 3 to end up with 1 3rd, the quantity x plus 1 is equal to y. Then, of course, we can just switch what's on either side of the equation. That way, y is on the right side of the equation, and we have y equal 1 3rd times x plus 1. We've come a long way. Now we have the equation y equals 1 3rd times x plus 1. How does this equation relate to the one we stared out with? Well, it's it's inverse. Let's make that a bit more obvious though with our notation. Please replace y in this equation with something to show that this is the inverse of f. If instead of y, you write f inverse of x, then we're showing that this function is the inverse of this function. Let's take a second to step back and look at the steps we've gone through over the past few quizzes to move from f of x, to f inverse of x. First, we change variable names from f of x to y, just to make our manipulations a little bit easier. Then we did something that's generally not legal when we're modifying equations. We switch the positions of x and y in our equation. This is a really important step, because it's in this step, that we're actually switching from the original function to the inverse function. After that, we rearrange our variables once more, so that y was by itself on one side. Then since we know this is the inverse function. To make that clear, we change the name of y to f inverse of x. Showing its relationship with the original equation we started out with. I think it would be worth it to have a bit more practice finding the inverses of functions. So let's do that, I've written three functions here for you, f of x equals x plus 1, g of x equals one fourth times x minus 9 and h of x equals x cubed. For each of these functions, I'd like you to find its inverse. If you're having trouble remembering what to do and why, then please go back and just watch the past few videos, or just review the beginning of this quiz. The three equations we have here in black boxes are the inverses of the equations we started out with. I've written out the steps to find each of these inverse functions, and there's one important thing I'd like you to notice. To indicate the point at which we switch from modifying the original function to modifying the inverse function, I changed colors. So the first two steps of each equation are still working with the original functions. Then at the point where we switch the position of x and y, we've changed the equation to be the inverse function. All the work with the inverse function, for each of these, is in purple. The actual steps that we've gone through when modifying either the original function or the inverse function are pretty standard algebra. They're things that you learned about very early on in this course. Why don't we take a look at this middle one just as an example. As we discussed earlier, the first thing that I did was switch from calling this g of x to calling it y. Just so that when we're moving things around, it's easy to tell what that variable actually is. We won't get it confused with anything. Then, to change from the original function to the inverse, I just switch this box of x and y. Since that if y equals 1 quarter times x minus 9, we have x equals 1 quarter times y minus 9. From there, I multiply both sides by 4, and then I'll add a 9 to both sides to get y by itself. Since I want g inverse of x on the left side of the equation, since that's our standard function notation, I just took one extra step to switch the sides of the equation. So that y was on the left instead of on the right. That gave us a final answer of g inverse of x equals 4x plus 9. The other two answers we ended up with were f inverse of x equals x minus 1. And h inverse of x equals the cube root of x. Now instead of writing cube root x, you could of course have written x to the 1 3rd power instead. Either way is correct. I hope this extra practice with inverse functions helped you feel a bit more comfortable with the process we have to go through for finding them. I think we're really on a roll with this whole finding inverses thing. So lets just keep it up. In fact, I'd like us to start with the equations that you just came up with. The ones that were the inverses of the ones we started out in the last quiz. I'm going to give them new names though. So now I'm going to call them the functions p, q and r. We have p of x equals x minus 1. q of x equals 4x plus 9 and r of x equals the cube root of x. What is the inverse of each of these functions? So here are our three answers. We have p inverse of x equals x plus 1, q inverse of x equals one fourth times x minus 9, and r inverse of x equals x cubed. I've done the work in the same way as last time including the color change, when we switch from the original function to the inverse function. And what's really important to notice about this quiz is that the equations we end up with in the end. As the inverses of these functions, are the equations we stared out with in the quiz before this one. We started with f of x equals x plus 1, and found that it's inverse was f inverse of x equals x minus 1. We ended up with this, 4x plus 9, by taking the inverse of a function that was equal to this one. And the same is true of this equation. I'd like you to mull this over and keep it in mind. If we have a function f, and we know its inverse, f inverse, then what else is true? Is it true that f and f inverse are inverses of one another? Is it true that f is the inverse of f inverse, or do we not know anything else for sure? Please pick as many choices as you think are correct. As we saw in the quiz before this one, if we are 100% positive that f inverse is the inverse of f. Then that also means that f is the inverse of f inverse. This may just seem like symantics but that also means that f and f inverse are inverses of one another. In other words, if we start with a function f, and we take it's inverse we end up with f inverse. Then if we take the inverse of f inverse we just end up with f. This explains why in the last two quizzes we did, we circle back to end up with the equations we started out with. We've been talking about equations for functions that are inverses of one another, and also points that lie on them. And we have seen one graph of two inverse functions, but I think that it would be great if we could focus on the graphical part a little bit more. So, here I've drawn for you two functions that we were working with earlier. We started off with f of x equals 3x minus 1, and we found it's inverse, which is f inverse of x equals 1 3rd times x plus 1. Of course, now from the last quiz, we also know that f is the inverse of f inverse. But, I'll keep with this notation for now. This is pretty tricky, but how are these lines related to one another? I'll give you some choices to make things a bit simpler. Which of these choices properly completes this sentence? The graph of f inverse is the reflection in the what of the graph of f? Your choices are x-axis, y-axis, or the line y equals x. Think about what it would look like to reflect f in each of these lines, and then see if one of those pictures matches the graph of f inverse. The graph of f inverse is the reflection in the line y equals x of the graph of f. If we draw the line y equals x on our graph over here, we can see that it cuts the picture in half. This half is identical to this one, just a mirror image. This part of the original function also matches perfectly with this part of its inverse. The statement that we have over here that f inverse is the reflection in the line y equals x of f is actually true of any function of inverse, not just these two lines. This is a result of the fact that inverses are the same equations just with x and y switched. It always amazes me to see how relationships between graphs reflect relationships between equations. Since you had so much practice with composite functions, in that last lesson. I wonder what would happen if we made a composite function by using a function and its inverse? These functions have been working pretty well for us so far, so let's just keep going with them. Using these two function then, what is f of f inverse of x? And what is f inverse of f of x? For these two functions, f of f inverse of x, just gives us x. And f inverse of f of x also gives us x. Remember that when we create composite functions, what we're doing is taking the output of the function that's on the inside. And using it as the input for the function that's on the outside. This seems pretty uncanny that we end up with x for both of these compositions. Maybe we're on to something here. Now the question is, is this property something that happens for every pair of functions and their inverses? Do we always end up with the independent variable when we take their compositions? I think we should test a few to see if we can disprove our theory. How about we just use those functions and their inverses that you found before? We're going back to f of x equals x plus 1. G of x equals 1 4th times x minus 9, and h of x equals x cubed, and of course, the inverses that go along with them. I'd like you to find a bunch of different composite functions. I've listed them all down here for you. Please tell me what you get for each one. Lets try one of these out together to see what happens. How about one of these more difficult ones. Let's say g of g inverse of x. g of x is 1 4th times the quantity x minus 9. So in place of x, we need to plug in the function g inverse, which is 4 x plus 9. So, look at 4 4th times 4x plus 9 minus 9. What does this simplify to? Inside the parentheses, we just end up with 4x and 1 4th times 4x is equal to x. Hmm, I'm going to go through and find all these other compositions right now. Let's see what happens. And it looks like each of these composite functions is in fact just equal to x. This confirms another fascinating property of inverse functions. The composition of a function with its inverse and vice versa will both give us what is known as the identity function. It's just the independent variable, which in this case is x. So, another way to think about inverse functions is that the function f inverse will undo whatever the function f has done to the independent variable. In this case, f is adding one and f inverse is subtracting one. Here, g is subtracting 9 and then dividing by 4. And g inverse is multiplying by 4 and then adding 9. Lastly, h cubes and h inverse takes the cube root. I think we're really getting down to what it fundamentally means for functions to be inverses for one another. That's really awesome. Suppose then that we have two functions. How about these two, f of x equals x over 4 and g of x equals 4 over x. Are they inverses of one another? Please pick yes or no. Think about how you can use what we just learned to figure this out. And the answer is no. These functions are actually not inverses of one another. It might look like they are right off the bat since we've been talking about how inverse functions undo what the other one does. However, these operations performed by f and g are not actually opposites. F divides x by 4, but g of x divides 4 by x. We can tell by taking their composites that they are definitely not inverses of one another. They're definitely not undoing each other's operations. If we take f of g of x, we end up with 1 over x. And if we take g of f of x, we get 16 over x. Hm, I wonder what the inverses of these functions are, then? Since these functions aren't inverses of each other, let's find their actual inverses. What is the inverse of f? And what is the inverse of g? Once you think you've found them, make sure that you check your work by finding f of f inverse of x, and all these other compositions down here. Remember what they all need to equal in order to verify that these actually are the inverse functions we're looking for. Going through the steps that we know and love now for finding inverse functions, here's what we end up with. Starting with f of x equals x over 4, f inverse of x equals 4x. This makes perfect sense. F is dividing x by 4, and f inverse is multiplying it by 4. Checking our work, f of f inverse of x equals 4x over 4, which is just x. Going the other direction, f inverse of f of x gives us 4 times x over 4, which is just x. Awesome! This must really be our inverse. Looking at g of x, we started off with g of x equals 4 over x. And interestingly enough, g inverse of x also equals 4 over x. Let's double-check to make sure this works. G of g inverse of x is 4 over 4 over x, which simplifies to x. Hm, we get exactly the same thing for g inverse of g of x, since g inverse and g are the same thing. So we also end up with x for this. G here is a special kind of function. It's the inverse of itself. One important feature of inverse functions that we haven't really talked about, is the fact that they are, well, functions. Here for example, are the functions we were working with in the last quiz. We started out with the equation y equals 4x, and found that its inverse is y equals x over 4. Of course, the original equation is a function, but we can tell that its inverse is too. It passes the vertical line test. We saw that y equals 4 over x is its own inverse. It passes the vertical line test, too. Another fun fact about this, is you can tell that it's its own inverse, because the function itself is symmetric across the line y equals x. Now if we had a function and we went through the process of finding its inverse, but the resulting equation did not graph a function, then the original function would not have an inverse at all. I know that sounds kind of complicated and that would involve a lot of steps. So luckily, there's an easier way to tell whether or not a function will have an inverse. It involves graphing. Now I just said that we can figure out if a graph represents a function by using the vertical line test. And we also know that in order to graph the inverse of a function, we need to reflect it in the line y equals x. So, what if we decided to reflect a vertical line in the line y equals x? Here, I've graphed a random vertical line. I happen to pick x equals 4. And this dotted black line is the line y equals x. What is the reflection of x equals 4 in the line y equals x? Please write the equation of this new line in this box. The reflection of x equals 4 in the line y equals x is just y equals 4. We can see on the graph that the line y equals x cuts this picture exactly in half. This part of x equals 4 gets mapped over to this part of y equals 4, as does this part to this part. So now we know that lines y equals 4 and x equals 4 are reflections of one another in the line y equals x. If we flip either of them across this line, we get the other one. Now, let's say we have some function that only intersects the line y equals 4 one time. If we find its inverse, how many times will that curve intersect the line x equals 4? Its inverse will only intersect x equals 4 one time. The relationship between the reflection of the function and the line, x equals 4, will be the same as the relationship between the original function and the line y equals 4. Let's take a second to think about the past couple of quizzes you've done. We saw that a vertical line, reflected in the line y equals x, becomes a horizontal line. Now, just like we have the vertical line test to determine if graphs are functions, remember, it says that a given curve is a function if it only crosses a vertical line at one point for each value of x in the domain. We can perform another test on the graph to figure out if its reflection in the line, y equals x would be a function. That would mean that it has an inverse. Which of these statements do you think is true, then? A function has an inverse if no horizontal line passes through its graph at more than one point. A function has an inverse if no vertical line passes through its graph at more than one point. A function has an inverse if all horizontal lines pass through its graph at more than one point. Or, a function has an inverse if the line, y equals x, passes through its graph at more than one point. Think back to the vertical line test, and how functions are related to their inverses. This first choice is correct. A function has an inverse if no horizontal line passes through its graph at more than one point. Now if a function passes this test, if it meets this criterion, which we call the horizontal line test, then that means that its reflection in the line y equals x will pass the vertical line test. Which means that, that reflection is a function. If we verify that the reflection of a function in the line y equals x is itself a function, then that means that the original function does in fact, have an inverse. Let's put that brand new understanding of the horizontal line test into action. Here are 3 functions, we have f of x equals 2x to the 5th, g of x equals 3 times the opposite value of x minus 2, and h of x equals 2x squared. Please tell me whether each of them has an inverse. Remember the horizontal line test says that a function will have an inverse. If any horizontal line we can draw on the coordinate plane will only pass through the original function one time. The only function of these three that has an inverse is this first one. F of x equals two x to the fifth. Neither this porabala nor this absolute value function pass the horizontal line test. So neither of them has an inverse. This function does, however. Maybe there is hope for these functions, though. Perhaps some domain restrictions could help us out. After all, if we only look at part of these graphs, it might be that the part we leave passes the horizontal line test. That will mean that, that part at least, would have an inverse. Let's just focus in on one of these two for the moment. If we look at this function, only in the part of the domain where x is greater than or equal to 0, does that function have an inverse? And then secondly, if we look at the function only where x is less than or equal to 0, does that function have an inverse? Think about which parts of this graph each of these are looking at, and then decide whether or not they each pass the horizontal line test. And the answer is, that both of these functions have inverses. Here are their graphs and we can see, that they each pass the horizontal line test. Once again, here's the original function. H of x equals 2x squared with no restrictions on the domain at all. So, even though this function doesn't have an inverse, because it doesn't pass the horizontal line test. And apparently, for some functions at least, if we change the domain of the function, we can influence whether or not it has an inverse. That's pretty neat, domain continues to be super powerful and really, really important to keep in mind. We saw before that this absolute value function, g of x, equals 3 times the absolute value of x minus 2, does not have an inverse when we consider the entire domain, all the real numbers. But maybe if we apply some restrictions to the domain, we can make this function have an inverse. Considering each of these choices on its own, which of them would make the function g pass the horizontal line test? Please note, that if you pick more than one choice here, that doesn't mean that we have to use both of those parts of the domain at the same time. We're just looking at these one by one. Here are the portions of the domain out of these choices that, when applied to g of x, would make it have an inverse. If we look only at the portion of the graph where x is less than or equal to 0, that's this part right here. That definitely passes the horizontal line test. If we look only where x is greater than or equal to 3, that's from here, onward, to the right. That also works. For negative 2 is greater than x, we have again, a part of this side of the graph. And for 7 is less than or equal to x, we have part of this branch over here, as well. So this is yet another case where looking at only parts of the domain of a function can make that function have an inverse. Before we wrap up our discussion of inverse functions, let's do a quick recap, and challenge problem. Suppose we have the function, f of x, equals 2x minus 3, over 5. What is its inverse? Starting out with our function, f of x equals 2x minus 3 over 5. I've gone through the same steps that you've become very familiar with during this lesson. First, I switched from f of x to y to make a notation easier to handle. Then, to switch to the inverse function, I interchanged x and y. So instead, we have the function, x equals 2y minus 3 over 5. Then I went through a few stuffs to solves for y. Getting y by itself on one side gave is the equation 5x plus 3 over 2 equals y. Then I just switched the two sides of the equation and changed y to f inverse of x. That gives us a final equation of f inverse of x equals 5x plus 3 over 2. Let's double check that this is the right answer. Remember, we can do that by looking at the composition of f inverse and f and the composition of f and f inverse. f of f inverse affects is 2 times the quantity 5x plus 3 over 2 minus 3, all over 5. Let's simplify this and sure enough, we end up with x. Let's try the composition, the other way around. For f inverse of f of x, we have 5 times the quantity 2x minus 3 over 5, plus 3 all over 2. And sure enough, cleaning this up, we get x as well. We've now verified that f inverse of x really is this expression. 5x plus 3 over 2. I hope at this point you feel really comfortable finding the inverses of different functions. And then checking that they actually are their inverses. Remember this also means that not only is 5x plus 3 over 2 the inverse of 2x minus 3 over 5, but 2x minus 3 over 5 is also the inverse of this function. They're inverses of one another. It's a two-way relationship. To round things out, let's double-check the subtleties of your understanding of inverse functions. I've written a bunch of statements here and I'd like you to tell me which ones are true. Now, we may not have talked explicitly about every single one of these. So, think about each of them carefully, and if you need to try more than once, that is completely fine, as always. You can check off as man as you want to, even all of them, if you think that that's appropriate. So here are your choices. All functions have inverses. All inverse functions have inverses. A functions domain can influence whether or not it has an inverse. All functions pass the vertical and horizontal line tests. And lastly, all inverse functions pass the vertical and horizontal line tests. Let's go through each of these statements to decide whether or not they're each true. So, first things first, all functions have inverses. Well we know that that's not true. Some functions, like y equals x squared, don't pass the horizontal line test. So, this doesn't have an inverse. We can't check this first one off then. Moving onto the second one, we have all inverse functions have inverses. This one is true. If we start off with one function, and reflect it across the line y equals x. If we start off with one function, and then reflect it across the line, y equals x and end up with another function, then the second function is the inverse of the first one. But if we reflect the second one back across the line y equals x again, we'll end up with its inverse, which is the first one. This is basically the same as the property I showed you before. If we have a function f inverse that we know is the inverse of f, and then we take its inverse, that just equals the original function f. So yes to the second choice. Now third, we have a function's domain can influence whether or not it has an inverse. This one is definitely true. We saw this with our parabola, which we took only portions of, and saw that those portions had inverses, while the whole parabola didn't. And we also saw the same thing with our absolute value function. Fourth, all functions pass the vertical and horizontal line tests. Well all functions pass the vertical line tests. That's how we know that they're functions. But not often past the horizontal line test. So this isn't true. The last choice however, is true. All inverse functions pass both the vertical and horizontal line tests. Inverse functions are functions, so they pass the vertical line test, and since inverse functions all have inverses as we've already decided, that means they have to cross the horizontal line test, as well. Now I personally think this was a really, really tough quiz. This required you to show some very in-depth understanding of inverse functions, and to think really critically about all of these statements. Awesome job on this quiz and on the entire lesson. Grant's girlfriend Gloria is super proud of Grant for all of his glasses viper success. But she actually has a very successful as well. She's a wildlife conservation specialist. In fact, she just got some really exciting news. She's about to go to China for a couple of months to work at a giant panda sanctuary, a nature preserve that protects pandas to help their population rebuild. Gloria needs to learn all about how pandas became an endangered species, and how effective different conservation efforts have been, so that she can be as helpful as possible during her time in China. Now, the preserve she's going to has actually made a ton of progress in helping its panda population grow. Here's a graph showing how the number of pandas in the sanctuary has changed form year to year. The horizontal axis here shows the number of years that have passed since the opening of the sanctuary, and the vertical axis shows the number of pandas living there. How many pandas did the sanctuary start out with? In other words, how many did they have after 0 years? How many did they have after 10 years? How about have 22 years? And lastly, what about after 30 years? That's this last data point which represents now. From the graph we can see that the sanctuary started off with 14 pandas. After ten years, they had 16 pandas, which is this point. After 22 years, they had 25 pandas. And today, they have 43 pandas. That's an impressive panda growth. We can already tell that the function graphed here behaves in an interesting way. It's always increasing, but the curve gets steeper the further to the right we move. What kind of curve is this, though? Well, to see that, we need to zoom out a bit. Here's what the graph would look like if we got rid of the domain restrictions from the story. What kind of function do you think this is? Here are your choices. Constant, linear, quadratic, cubic, piecewise, absolute value, square root, or something else? Something else. We've never seen this kind of one-sided growth with a tail like this on the left before. Which statement I've written here do you think properly describes the way that this panda population grew? They are protected from habitat laws, food shortages, and predators, so they have a pretty perfect happy panda life. Here are your options. The more pandas there are, the fewer are born each year. The number of pandas born each year does not depend on population size. And the more pandas there are, the more are born each year. As the population of pandas in the preserve grows, there'll be more and more pandas born each year, that's this third choice. This makes sense. The more pandas there are, the more there will be to have baby pandas. Then, when those babies grow up, there'll be even more pandas to have even more babies. That explains why this curve is getting steeper and steeper as time goes on. The growth that we're seeing here has a special name, exponential growth. And it's produced by what's called an exponential function. Here's the graph of an exponential function with a slightly simpler equation. I'd like you to fill out this x, f of x chart, so we can get an idea of what's going on here. I'll get it started for you with the coordinates of one point. On the graph lies the point negative 3, 1 8th. Now, please fill in the rest of the corresponding values of f of x. Here's our chart all filled out. The f of x values you should all have filled in from top to bottom are 1 4th4, 1 half, 1, 2, 4 and 8. These numbers definitely fall in line with the kind of increasing growth that we saw with the panda population. What can we say about these numbers in our table? Well, we said that the x values are increasing by one, as we move down the list. But, what about the values of f of x? Please to complete this sentence, to say what's going on with those numbers on the right side of the table. As x increases by one, f of x does one of these things by some number. When x increases by 1, f of x is multiplied by 2. We can see this in the table. One eighth times 2 is one fourth, one fourth times 2 is one half, one half times 2 is 1 and so on and so forth. Thinking about the function you just filled out the table for, let's look at what values f of x has, as x increases by 1, over and over again. 1x is 1. f of 1 is 2. 1x is 2. f of x is 4, or 2 times 2. And when x is 3, well, f of 3 is 8, which is 2 times 2 times 2. To get f of 4, we would take f of 3 and multiply that by 2 one more time. I see a bunch of repeated multiplication here. Can you think of another way to write this? Think about things that you learned very early on in this course. Please use that more compact notation to rewrite these three values of f. Then please tell me what f of 10 is, what f of 100 is, and what f of x is. These first three values of f we want to rewrite can be rewritten using exponents, 2 times 2 is just 2 squared. Three 2s, multiplied together, is 2 to the 3rd, and 2 times 2 times 2 times 2 is 2 to the 4th power. We can see here that the base of each of these exponential expressions is 2, and in each one, the exponent corresponds to the value of x. The same should be true for these three values of f down here. F of 10 should be 2 to the 10. F of 100 should be 2 to the 100, and f of x should just be two to the x. Now, maybe without even realizing it, you've actually just found the equation for your first exponential function. It's right here, f of x equals 2 to the x. So that you can keep acquainting yourself with different exponential functions, I'm actually going to give you a new one to check out right now. Here it is. H of x equals 5 to the x. But what points lie on this function? Let's figure it out. Here's a table for you to fill out, so that we can organize this information well. However, in order to do this, you're probably going to need to use a calculator. Since the numbers are going to get really big, really fast. If you don't own a calculator, it's easy to find one online by searching for scientific calculator. And if you do have your own scientific calculator. It should have a button that makes evaluating exponential functions very simple. In fact, Google makes a calculator that's very easy to find and very easy to use. Here it is. It comes up right when you search scientific calculator on Google. This is what I'll be using today to do our calculations. As you can see, this calculator has a button that says x to the y on it. Now if I want to calculate six to the third power, for example, I would press 6. Then I would press x to the y. And then I would press three. You can see that the calculator is showing us 6 to the 3rd. When I press equals, that gives me the number that's equal to, which is 216. Let's try another one. Maybe I want to find four to the negative fifth. Well, I press four, then our lovely x to the y button, and then I type negative 5. Great, I see 4 to the negative 5th, which is what we're looking for. Pressing Enter tells me that it's this long exponent. Let's practice using that button on our calculator to find different points on this function. For each value of x, I've written here, please fill in the corresponding value of h of x. In other words find 5 to the x for each of these x values. Here is our filled out table. Now, of course we don't want to be dependent on calculators for everything, but they certainly do come in handy when we have calculations that end up giving us huge numbers, like 3,125. You can see this only at a value of x equals 5. Imagine if I had given you even higher x values. Our numbers for h of x would have been huge. Some of these numbers you definitely could have figured out by hand or in your head. In fact, you probably did. Though there might be some on this list you could have done that way, that you didn't realize. For example, when x equals negative 3, h of x is 5 to the negative 3. This is just equal to 1 over 5 to the 3rd. Five to the 3rd, is 125. So, that's 1 over 125. So this is the fractional of this decimal over here. This answer is perfectly acceptable, as well. Although, it's probably not what a calculator will give you, depending on what sort of device you're using. We can see something similar happening for 5 to the negative 2. That's just 1 over 5 squared, or 1 over 25. Now that you've seen a couple of exponential functions, let's talk a bit more in generally about them. We use exponential functions to model relationships in which a constant change in x creates a proportional change, a percent increase or a decrease in f of x. In other words, as we saw in our tables that we worked with, whenever we add a certain amount to x, we're looking at adding one every time in this case. f of x is going to be multiplied by a certain amount. In the case of this function, that amount was two. Now the general form of an exponential function looks like this. f of x equals a to the x power. Here a is a positive constant other than 1. Before we move on, lets just look at why a can't be 0 and can't be 1. Well, what is f of x if a equals 0? What if a equals 1? For each of these, rewrite the function as simply as possible. When a is 0, all f of x ends up being is 0 to the x. And that actually just equals 0 for every value of x except for 0, since 0 to the 0 power is not defined. When a equals 1, f of x just equals 1 to the x. And that simplifies to 1. Since both of these are constant functions, they're just horizontal lines. That's not very interesting. Horizontal lines are definitely not exponential functions. That's why a can't equal 0 or 1 for this general form of our exponential function. We know that when we add to x, we're multiplying the value of f of x, but by how much? Well, let's consider the functions we've already looked at. In the case of f of x equals 2 to the x, f of x was multiplied by 2 whenever x increased by 1. Here, 2 is called the growth rate of the function. So what can we say about the growth rate of exponential functions in general? Considering that general function, f of x, equals a to the x, when we increase x by 1, what's going to happen to f of x? For f of x equals a to the x. When x increases by 1, f of x is multiplied by a. A here is the growth rate. And that means we can tell what the growth rate of an exponential function will be by looking at its base. Which we can see, in this equation, is a. There was, however, a reason that the panda population ended up as an endangered species. And that was because their population declined to a dangerously low number. More pandas were dying each year than being born since they had lost huge portions of their habitat, making food and mates difficult to find. Now, even though Gloria's Giant Panda Preserve is doing very well rehabilitating its population, pandas are actually still endangered worldwide. Preserves like hers are one of the ways that hopefully pandas will no longer be endangered anymore someday. Their overall population will one day get to a much healthier size. Which of these statements I've just written do you think makes the most sense in terms of the decline of the panda population? A constant number of pandas died each year. The larger the population, the more pandas died each year. And the smaller the population the fewer died each year. Or finally, the larger the population the fewer pandas died each year, and the smaller the population, the more died each year. This second choice is correct. If pandas all have about the same lifetime, then they'll die off at a constant rate, not at a constant number per year. That means that the higher the population. The more deaths there will be, because a certain percent approximately, will die each year. As the population shrinks, there will be fewer pandas to die. Here are three graphs, which I've labeled a, b, and c. And I'd like you to tell me which one fits the statement we chose in the last question. The larger the panda population, the more pandas die each year. And the smaller the population, the fewer die. Graph C shows this pattern. We can see that as the total population of pandas, shown on the vertical axis, gets lower, the graph gets less steep, meaning that the rate of death is decreasing. The graph that we selected in the last video is unlike any other function we've seen before. And in fact, it's a different kind of exponential function. This graph shows another function that follows the same sort of pattern. Now, since I've told you that the graph is exponential, we have an idea of what kind of behavior it exhibits. Every time we add some constant amount to x, f is going to increase by a certain percent, or is going to be multiplied by a certain number. So, for example, if we add 1 to x here, what is f of x multiplied by? I'll label a few points on this graph to make things a bit simpler. Now think carefully about this. Make sure that you fill in the number f of x is multiplied by. Every time x increases by 1, f of x is multiplied by 1 3rd. We can see this in the points that I labeled here for you. As x steps up by ones, f of x is going from 9 to 3 to 1 to 1 3rd and so on. This is definitely different. Pretty cool. This graph that we just came up with, is different from other exponential functions we've seen. Because it isn't growing. It's decreasing everywhere instead of increasing. We call this exponential decay instead of exponential growth. We can see that the graph of an exponential decay function looks like the opposite of an exponential growth function. It's going down instead of going up, as you move from left to right across the graph. Now decay might sound like a funny word for this sort of behavior, but it's called this because of some of the context in which functions like this pop up in nature. We would use exponential decay equations to describe a panda population going extinct, a giant group of bacteria dying off. Or the amount of medicine in the bloodstream decreasing. Instead of having a growth rate like we have in functions like this one. We have a decay rate. Thinking back to our original form of an expotential function f of x equals a to the x. What do you think that a needs to equal in order for a graph to show decay instead of growth? What interval should a lie in? In order for f of x equals a to the x, to exhibit exponential decay. A must lie between 0 and 1, not including either of these numbers. When a is in this interval, the value of the function is multiplied by a fraction each time x increases. Making f of x get smaller and smaller. Let's experiment with this for a second. Here we are, back in friendly old Desmos, and I've typed in the general function that we've been talking about, f of x equals a to the x. I've made a into a number that I can adjust by sliding this right here. Right now, a is set to 1 and, as we calculated before, this is just a horizontal line, f of x equals 1. Now, let's see what happens as I decrease a. You can see right away, just when I let it go below 1, we already have a function showing exponential decay. As I continue to make it smaller, the decay gets more and more steep. It's happening more quickly. That's going to continue to happen until a gets too small. When a reaches 0, we have that constant function again. Except, this time, it's at f of x equals 0. We can, of course, also slide over into the exponential growth area as well. That would just mean we need to increase a past 1. Let's try that. Here were are back in our exponential decay. And there we go, we're growing. Just above 1 we already see that new pattern forming. And the growth gets steeper and steeper as a increases. Since we're going to be multiplying by more and more each time x increases. If I let a get really big, our graph's going to increase at incredibly quick rate. I would encourage you to visit the Desmos website and play around with this on your own. It's really fun to see how many different things you can do with exponential functions. What have we learned about the behavior of exponential functions so far? Well, once again, working with our general function, f of x equals a to the x. If a is greater than 1, then f of x is increasing everywhere in this domain, showing exponential growth. If 0 is less than a is less than 1, then the function looks like this one. It's decreasing everywhere in its domain, and we say that it shows exponential decay. There is, however, another way that functions of this type are sometimes written out. I've graphed four different functions over here, and I'd like you to tell me which one is equivalent to the function we were talking about before? f of x equals 1 3rd to the x. I'd like you to think about this, using both equations I've written here and the graphs that are drawn. The answer is this one, y equals 3 to negative x. First of all, we can to tell that the graph, this one right here, looks just like the one for 1 3rd to the x. It's the only one on this coordinate plane that's showing exponential decay. We can also see why this equation is equivalent to the one for f of x from algebra. 3 to the negative x is equal to 3 to the negative 1 to the x. 3 to the negative 1 is just equal to 1 3rd. So the equations and the graphs for these two functions are one and the same. They're the same function. Let's talk a bit more about the behavior of these exponential decay and exponential growth functions. In particular, what are their domains and ranges? The functions that are graphed here are y equals one half to the x. Or now you know, this is the same as y equals 2 to the negative x. And over here, we have y equals 2 to the x. For each function, please use interval notation to write in the domain and range. Although using the graphs can be helpful to answer this question, the equations are also really useful. For each domain, try to see if there are any values of x that produce invalid answers when plugged into the function. And for the range, think about what values the function can and can't take on. Both of the functions we have here output real numbers for y, for any number of x that we could plug in. So the domain of each is all real numbers. In other words, negative infinity to infinity. The ranges of both of the functions are the same as one another, as well. They are both 0 to infinity, not including either of those endpoints. Now we can see this happening on either graph, but why is it happening? Here is an instance where our equations can lend a hand. No matter how small a number you plug in for x in our exponential growth function, 2 to the x will never reach 0. The numbers will get closer and closer to 0, but they'll never actually equal it. For the exponential decay equation, if we look way out to the right side of the graph as x approaches infinity, y will approach but never touch 0, since the same thing will be happening with this equation. Thinking about what we found in the last question, which of the following features do these exponential functions have? Please check all that are true. Y intercepts, horizontal asymptotes, vertical asymptotes and slant asymptotes. Let's go through these possible answers one by one. To start off, both of these functions do have y intercepts. In fact, every single exponential function has a y intercept. We'll talk more about that later. Since the domain of each of these is all the real numbers, we must be able to plug in 0 for x and get a valid number for y. Which tells us where the y intercept is. Now, let's move on to asymptotes. Both graphs have horizontal asymptotes at y equals 0. Neither of them however, has a vertical asymptote or a slant asymptote. Now it's easy to mistake these steep parts of the curves for vertical asymptotes. But, that just goes to show rapidly they grow or decay. These steep sections do not represent discontinuities, or breaks in the graph, like vertical asymptotes would. In fact, since the domain is all the real numbers, these graphs are continuous. How are the graphs of this exponential growth function and this exponential decay function related to one another? I bet you can figure it out. Once again, here we have y equals two the x, and y equals one half to the x. How do we transform one of these into the other? Do we need a horizontal shift, a vertical shift? A reflection in the x-axis, a reflection in the y-axis, or a reflection in the line y equals x? These are reflections in the y-axis of one another. We can see that if we flip this one across this line right here, we'd end up with this exact graph. Now we can why this happens from our equations if we rewrite this one using the other form we learned. Remember, we can also write this as 2 to the negative x. A few lessons ago, we saw that if you replace x with negative x in a function. You end up with the reflection of the original function across the y-axis. That's exactly what's happening here. Turns out this other form could be pretty useful in certain situations. Functions for exponential growth and exponential decay have some major differences. But they're also very closely connected as we've just seen. There's one small similarity that we haven't discussed yet, though. All functions of the form f of x equals a to the x, where of course, a is greater than 0 and not equal to 1. Have the same y intercept. What is it? Well, you can plug in zero for X to find out. Please put its coordinates here. Well, to start off, 0 is the coordinate of any x-intercept. So if we plug in 0 for x in our equation, we get f of 0 equals a to the 0. Now, if I take any number that a could equal to the 0 power, then we get 1 for f. That means that the y-intercept of any exponential function of this form, whether it's growing or decaying is 0, 1. That's really cool. Bringing it back to decimals again, I've started us off with the function f of x equals 2 to the x. And we can see that, yes, in fact, our y-intercept is at 0, 1. As we slide a, either making it bigger or making it smaller, the one point that never changes is the 0.01. You can watch the rest of the curve flip right around that point. It's almost like a pivot point. We know from the last question that the y-intercept of the function y equals 1 half to the x is 0,1 as we can see right here. What if I wanted a function identical to this one, but with a y-intercept of 0,4 instead? Which of these function do you think that is? Here's a little hint. Think about what transformation you'd have to do to move the point 0,1 to the point 0,4 instead. Then, think about what substitution you need to do in this equation to make that transformation happen. That would be the function y equals 1 half to the x plus 3. We've seen before that in order to shift a function up by three units, we need to replace y with y minus 3. Doing that and then adding 3 to both sides, gives us this answer. What if instead, we wanted a function identical to y equals 1 half to the x, but we wanted it to contain the point 3, 1? Remember that this function contains the point 0, 1. Which function do you think fits this description? A hint again. Think about what transformation you would need to do to move the point 0, 1 to the point 3, 1. What substitution would you need to make in this equation to perform that transformation? This function, y equals one half to the x minus 3 power is identical to this one, but it shifted 3 units to the right. Now, I knew that shift needed to happen, because here we have the point 0,1 and to transform 0,1 to 3,1, we just need to move 3 to the right. A shift of 3 units to the right means replacing x with x minus 3, which is exactly what's happening here. Awesome. It looks like you can transform exponential functions just like you can any other kind of function. The strategies we learned, many lessons ago, are going to be just as applicable here, as they were for every other kind of function we've worked with. That's really convenient. At the same time as Gloria has been learning about exponential growth to help her pandas out, Grant has also been trying to figure out exponential functions to help deal with his company's investments in different bank accounts. Suppose that Grant wants to invest $10,000 and the bank say, you can get 3% interest per year compounded yearly. Grant feels confused. The bank explains that compounded annually means that once a year the total amount of money in the account is calculated. And then 3% of that amount is added on top of the total in-, interest. Let's start out by just calculating this for the first three years that Grant has the account. I've already written in all the information that we have and really it's all that we need to figure out the rest of this. You know that he starts out with $10,000 at the beginning of the first year that he invests. Our interest rate is 3%. So that means that 0.03 times this amount will be added to the account at the end of the year. 0.03 times $10,000 is 300. 10,000 plus 300 makes 10,300. Since this is the amount that's present at the end of year 1, it's the amount that's present at the beginning of year 2. So year 2 starts off with 10300. What I would like you to do right now is to fill in the missing information in each of these cells. How much interest will he earn in the second year? And how much will that give him at the end of year 2? Use that as the start of year 3 and then calculate the new amount of interest and then the new total. Since we know how much money we're starting with the beginning of year 2. We need to figure out the interest that amount is going to earn. Since your interest rate is 3%, we need to multiply 10,300 by 0.03. Since this is how we convert three percent into a decimal. 10,300 times 0.03 is just 309. And this added to our original balance gives grant 10,609 at the end of year 2. We know that this is the amount that he starts with at the beginning of year 3. So we can write that in here as well. Now, 10,609 times 0.03 gives us $318.27. Adding these together, Grant has a total of $10,927.27, by the end of the third year. These numbers are great but I think it would help if we looked a little bit more closely at how we just calculated each of these answers. Let's just focus in on this first here for a second. For the first year, what we found was $10,000, the amount we started out with, plus 0.03, the interest rate times that original amount of money, $10,000. Now, to help us understand in a different way what's going on here, I'd like you to factor out the 10,000 from this expression and then write something in these parentheses right here. Now, you don't need to sum anything inside the parentheses. You can just leave 2 terms in there. If we factor out a 10,000 from each term in the original expression, then for the first term, we find 10,000 divided by 10,000 or just 1. For the second term, which we add to the first one, we get 0.03. That's our answer, 1 plus 0.03. I'd like to introduce some terminologies that we can talk more easily about the different quantities we're dealing with. We'll call the amount of money that Grant initially invested in the account, the principal, which in Grant's case is $10,000. We also already mentioned the interest rate before. And in Grant's case, this is 3%. Now, let's think back to the math that we were doing. In the expression, 10,000 times 1 plus 0.03. Where do the numbers 10,000 and 0.03 come from? For each one, please pick one of these choices. The number of years the money is invested, the number of times interest is compounded per year, the interest rate as a percentage per year, the interest rate as a decimal per year, the principal or the number of months in a year. $10,000 was the principal for Grant. It was the amount of money that he invested initially. 0.03 represents the interest rate as a decimal per year. It looks like these two numbers are pretty important quantities. Earlier, we rewrote Grant's balance after one year as 10,000 times 1 plus 0.03. Here, we can clearly see those two quantities we were just talking about. The principle 10,000 right here, and the interest rate, 0.03 right here. So, what would happen if we kept our expressions in this form, but found the balance after year two? First things first, though, let's remember how we found this quantity here. We took the principle, and then, since this is the amount of money in the account at the start of this year, we multiplied it by the interest rate. That's how we got this quantity. Now, we know that to find this balance after two years, we're going to need to start with the amount of money that's in the account at the beginning of year 2, which is this quantity right here. So, this amount is going to sneak around and end up as our starting point. Now, I'm about to give you a bunch of boxes to fill in, but please don't be overwhelmed. You're very well-prepared to do what I'm about ask you to do. It's not a big deal. What I would like you to do is to substitute into these green boxes a certain quantity. And I'll give you a hint, the same quantity belongs in each of these boxes. Think using this equation right here what quantity that is. Then, based on what you end up with right here, I'd like you to write this in a more compact form right here. However, keep 1 plus 0.03 written as is. Don't change it to 1.03. To find the balance after two years, we need to first start out with the amount of money that's in the account at the beginning of the second year. We know that's the amount that the account has at the end of the first year. 10,000 times 1 plus 0.03. Now, in fact, that's the same value that belongs in these other two green boxes. The reason it goes here is because this is the quantity that we're going to use to calculate the new amount of interest that needs to be added. Now if we look at this entire expression, we can see that what can be factored out, is what's already in the green boxes, 10,000 times 1 plus 0.03. If we factor that out of each term, then what we would end up with for the first term here would just be 1, and for the second term it would be 0.03, as we see in the parentheses here. Now looking right here, what we see is repeated multiplication of 1 plus 0.03. Using exponent notation, that gives us 10,000 times the quantity 1 plus point oh 3 squared. So now we've found the balance after one year for Grant's account and the balance after two years. What we're going to do now is something that we haven't really done in this course yet. I'm going to ask you to make a hypothesis. This just means that you're going to come up with an idea and we'll see if it's right pretty soon. This is something that mathematicians do all the time. They look at examples, look for a pattern, guess what the pattern might mean, and then test their guess to see if it's right. If it's wrong, it's not a big deal. They try again with a new guess. So the question I have for you is, what does the two here mean? Where does it come from, and what does it stand for? Think about what might be going on, in general, with these equations. And see if you can predict the pattern without working anything out. Write your guess in this box. Just so you know, this is not going to be graded. Now that we found the balance after the first 2 years, it would be great if we could find it even further along in time. Let's work right now to find the balance after 3 years. Actually, you already did this earlier, but I'd like us to write it in this kind of notation. We start with this amount, since that's how much money there is at the start of your three. And then, the amount that we need to add to this in interest, is just this quantity times 0.03. If we factor out this quantity from both terms, then we end up, once again, with 1 plus 0.03, inside this second set of parentheses. However, since we have 1 plus 0.03 squared here, times that quantity again, 1 plus point 0 3. We can make this look more compact, by changing our exponent up here. Instead of squared, this is cubed this time. Now that we have another quantity continuing our pattern here, what do you think about the guess that you made just before this? Do you want to keep it as is, or do you want to change it? Think about what pattern you see. Think about what you think the exponent in each of these expressions means, and then use that information, that pattern to write down the balance in this form after 4 years, after 10 years, and after 100 years. I'll also give you another chance to write down your hypothesis. You can write in exactly what you wrote before or you can change it this time, taking into account the new information we have now. Once again, this part won't be graded. We are, however, going to see how your numbers look. Remembering that there's an invisible 1 here, as the exponent in this expression, all of these exponents stand for the number of years that have passed. Or another way to look at this is that it's the number of times that interest has been added. After four years, then, we'll have 10,000 times 1.03 to the 4th power. After 10 years, we'll have 10,000 times 1 plus 0.03 to the 10th power and after 100 years, we'll have the same thing except to the hundredth power. Well, if you got all these number right, congratulations. You obviously spotted the pattern and then you extended it. That is some great detective work using math. For this account, the pattern that emerged for all the expressions for the balances after a certain number of years, was like this. We take the principle, the amount initially invested, multiply by 1 plus the interest rate written as a decimal. And then, take that quantity, that I've written in parentheses to a power that's equal to the number of times interest has been added to the account. In this case, since interest is compounded yearly, that would just equal to the number of years that had passed. Let's try doing something similar, but with a different situation. Remember Athena? Well, she has $300 to invest. The interest rate on the account she's going to put it in is 5% per year, compounded annually. How much money will she have in the account after four years have passed? Remember that pattern that we were using before. Athena's $300 is going to be multiplied by 1 plus the interest rate written as a decimal, so 0.05. And that multiplying is going to happen four times, since interest will be compounded four times in four years. We can, of course, use our wonderful calculator to multiply this out. 1 plus 0.05 is just 1.05. And this raised to the 4th power is this quantity. We want to multiply that by 300. That gives us 364.651875. Rounding to cents, that gives us $364.65. The strategy we've been using to solve these problems is definitely useful, but there are different interest options for Grant to explore. What if instead of only compounding the interest once a year, his account compounded it twice a year? Now, interest rate is still quoted as a yearly rate. So let's say he keeps it at 3%. However, since his interest is going to be compounded twice a year or semi-annually, then each time the compounding happens, the rate that's used is only going to be half of this annual rate. That means that each time we do a calculation, we're not going to use the number 0.03 anymore, instead, we're going to use half of that. I'd like you to help me describe the situation by filling in some numbers for me in a few sentences. Here's what I'd like you to tell me. If Grant invests $10,000 at a 3% annual rate compounded twice a year, then in six months, he will receive 1.5% on his $10,000 investment. Which means that some amount of money, which you'll write in here, will be added to his account in interest. The total balance of the account will then be whatever you think. Then after six more months, Grant will again receive 1.5% interest, but this time, on the new amount. The interest added this time is going to be something, which will make the total amount of money in the account after one year equal to what? If Grant invests $10,000 at a 3% annual rate compounded twice a year, then in 6 months, he'll receive 1.5% on this $10,000 investment. This means that $150.00 will be added to his account, in interest. The total balance will then be 10,000 plus 150, or $10,150. After six more months pass, Grant will again receive 1.5% interest, but now on this new amount. The interest added this time will be 0.015 times 10,150, or $152.25. This will make the total amount of money in the account after one year equal to $10,302.25. Note that in the second six months, more interest is added, since Grant is getting interest on the interest from the previous six months, as well as on his original investment. Seems like a pretty good deal to me. As we just saw, if Grant invests $10,000 at a 3% annual rate, compounded twice a year. Then in one year, there will be $10,302.25 in his account. Now, is this more or less than Grant would have if interest was compounded only once a year? The answer is more. As we calculated earlier, Grant would only have $10,300 if interest is compounded just one time a year. Compounding interest in this way actually gives Grant more money after a year than annual compounding would. I wonder how we could generalize about this. We just saw that after one year, if Grant's account compounds interest twice a year, he'll end up with 10,000 times 1 plus 0.015 squared dollars. Now I want you to think back to that hypothesis you made earlier and how the situation is different this time. What does this exponent here mean? Well, remember, we're going to multiply by this number every time interest is compounded. So, what exponents belong here and here? To help us figure out how much money is in the account after 2 years and after 3 years. We need an exponent of 4 here and an exponent of 6 here. Remember that the interest is being compounded twice a year. So to figure out how many times it has been compounded total, we multiply the number of years that have passed times the number of times compounded in a year. Let's pretend again, for a minute, that's Grant's interest is compounded just one time a year. If you invest that same $10,000 at that same 3% annual rate, then after four years, he'll have this amount of money, as we saw before. Let's talk about what this means, this expression here. $10,000 represents the principle. This initial amount of money he invested and it goes right here. Point o three here is the interest rate written as a decimal. Three percent becomes point o three. Then last but not least we have our exponet four. This represents the number of years that the money has been invested in the account. Now this worked fine for compounding just one time a year, but it's not going to work as well for compounding twice a year. If we switch the compounding to twice a year instead of once a year, then this is the expression we came up with. So what can we say about comparing these two expressions we've just seen? I'd like you to tell me that by filling in this sentence. When we switch from compounding interest once a year to twice a year, what happens to the interest rate and what happens to the exponent here? When we switch from compounding interest once a year to compounding it twice a year, the interest rate is divided by 2 and the exponent is multiplied by 2. So here's what we have for compounding twice a year with Grant's situation. This of course is just an example and these numbers could be different depending on how his account was set up. However, numbers have played their roles as I've written in here. This number is his principle, the amount he first invested. Here goes the interest rate divided by 2, And the exponent is the number of years that have passed multiplied by 2. Now we always like generalizations so let's see if we can apply one here. I think we're going to need some variable names however. Let's call our principal P. r will be our annual interest rate written as a decimal. T will be the number of years that have passed since the account opened. N will be the number of times interest is compounded per year. This was two in our example up here. And A will be the total amount of money in the account. I'd like you to use these quantities we just came up with to create a general equation for A. The total amount of money in the account. Just fill in the proper letters in these different slots. Remember you can use this formula as a guideline for figuring out what goes where here. Comparing this to what we have up here, P the principal belongs right here. Now, what goes here is the interest rate that we use every time interest is compounded. This is equal to the annual interest rate, r, divided by n, the number of times interest is compounded per year. We can see that that's what we have up here. We have a 3% annual rate. 0.03 divided by 2, which gives us this number. Great, we're really close. Now what belongs in the exponent? We know that what needs to go here is the total number of times that interest has been compounded. It's compounded n times for every t years. So, that means that the total number of compoundings is just nt. There we go, we have a formula that should be pretty easy to use. And I hope, more than anything else, that this makes sense. We've worked really hard to come up with this brand new equation, so let's use it. Grant has actually made more than $10,000, since cleaning glasses has been so profitable. He wants to invest more money, $20,000 in another account at a 4% annual interest rate for 5 years. Should he have the money compounded quarterly which is four times a year or monthly? Well, let's help him figure that out. How much money will he end up with after 5 years in either case? This is the perfect chance to use our new equation. Please round to two decimal places. All we need to do to solve these two problems is plug the right numbers into our equations up here. Let's start out with the quarterly compounding option. What do we know? Well, P equals 20,000, r equals 0.04, n equals 4 and t equals 5. Great. Now, let's just plug these numbers in to solve for A, since that's what we're looking for. A will equal 20,000 times 1 plus 0.04 over 4, all of that raised to the 4 times 5 power. This simplifies to 20,000 times 1.01 to the 20. If we plug this into a calculator and round, we end up with $24,403.80. Now, on to monthly compounding. We do almost exactly the same thing. In fact, all of our information is the same, except that n is not 4. This time n is 12, since there are 12 months in 1 year. For A then, we have 20,000 times 1 plus 0.04 over 12 raised to the 5 times 20 or 60 power. Plugging this into a calculator gives us $24,419.93. Although, these two total balances aren't too far off from one another, Grant will end up with slightly more money if he goes with the monthly compounding interest choice. And look at that, after 5 years in either case, he'll earn over $4,400 just by keeping his money in his account. That's a pretty good deal. Referring back to our formula, A equals P times 1 plus r over n to the nt, we've seen n, the number of times the interest is compounded in a year, equal to several different values in our different situations. We've had n equals 1, 2, 3, 4, and 12. And presumably, we could have interest compounded even more frequently than this. As you've experienced, Grant likes to push limits in order the maximize the amount of money he makes, and now he wants to know what would happen if his interest is compounded so frequently That is actually compounded over and over again all the time. Lucky for him, this sort of interest setup actually already exists. It's called continuously compounded interest. If we want to use our good old formula here and keep increasing and increasing n Do I reach a particular function? Let's see what happens if we substitute in the values p equals 1, r equals 1 and t equals 1 and then increase the value of n. Well they just said that p equal to 1, r equal to 1 and t equal to 1. Here's what we have. A equals 1 plus 1 over n all to the nth power. Now I'd like us to see what happens if we let n increase. Let's plug in some values to find out. So here's a little table for you to help me fill out. For each value of n here, please plug it into this equation to find the value of a that goes with it. Now, you're probably going to get some pretty long decimals, so I'd like you to type in as many numbers As your calculator will give you, maybe around ten or so. Remeber you can always use the google calculator online if you need a different device. So here are the numbers that I get for A, when I plug in n. You can see we have some pretty long decimals here, except for our first answer, which is very simple. Since we just get 1 plus 1 to the 1st power. However, you might notice, that the difference between adjacent values, here, gets smaller and smaller as n increases. The difference between these last two, doesn't show up. Until the fifth decimal place. Something interesting is definitely happening here. As we increase n toward infinity, the number we have for A over here gets closer and closer to a certain very special number. That number is e. But what on earth is e? We haven't been using that letter to stand for anything. Well, this is a very important point. e is actually a number, an irrational number to be precise. And we can approximate it as 2.718281828459, and of course, this decimal continues forever, since this number is irrational. It's a number that has special significance for higher level mathematics, biology, chemistry and many other fields. So it's really exciting that we're going to get to work with it. Conveniently, scientific calculators also generally have buttons for e on them. On my calculator, it's right here, and when I press it, well, it just types the letter e. But if we press equals, then you see a rounded version of this number. Now, remember, this is not the exact value of e, this is an approximation. Now that we know our value of e, or at least many digits of it. Though, not nearly an infinite number of them. We can see how those numbers we had on our table, introducing us to the idea of continually compounding interest. Definitly do approach this value. There we're getting closer and closer to it as we moved on the list as n got bigger. And in fact, the formula for calculating continuously compounded interest, does involve E. Here it is. So, for continuously compounded interest, we have this formula. A equals p times e to the rt. As before, A stands for the total amount of money in the account, after t years have passed. P is the principal amount invested in the account. And r is the annual interest rate. Remember, e is not a variable. It's that very special number we've just discussed. What if we kept Grant's situation exactly the same as before. A principal of $20,000 and annual interest rate of 4%, but this time we let the interest compound continuously. How much money would he have after five years then? Don't forget to use our new equation And please round to two decimal places. We know that A equals P times e to the rt. We're looking for A, and here's what we know. P equals 20,000, r equals 0.04, and t equals 5. Let's plug these numbers in. That gives us 20,000 times e to the 0.2. Now, it's time to use our calculator. I'll type in 20,000, multiply that by e and take e to the power of 0.2. Look at that, we managed to use all of the calculator skills we learned in this lesson in one go. Now I will just press Enter and we'll see what happens. We get $24,428 and if we round, 6 cents. Grant definitely makes some more money with continuously compounding interest than he did with the other options we checked out. People were so excited about Grant's new product that he started getting requests left and right for his glasses wipers and spray nozzles. So, he started to keep a list of everyone who would want a pair very soon. By the end of 1 day, 36 of his friends had begged him for glasses wipers and 11 of those people each said that they would also like a pair of nozzles to go with their glasses wipers. Once he realized how many people were excited about his new business, Grant started to wonder how much money he could bring in. So assuming that Grant only sells glasses, wipers, and nozzles, which of these 4 expressions do you think should replace the question mark to make an equation for the total amount of money that he'll earn. Well, unless Grant plans on paying other people to buy his products, he'll presumably bring in some money each time he sells a nozzle, and each time he sells a set of wipers. This means that the money he earns is going to be equal to the money he makes from his wiper sales plus the money he makes from the nozzle sales, which is just this first choice up here. For example, let's say, just picking numbers out of the air, that Grant decides to sell a wiper set for $5 and one nozzle for $3. Well, then we know that money earned at that point would be equal to $5 plus $3 or let's see, if I was going to pay for these, it would be 5, 6, 7, $8 total. So all we would do to find the total money earned would be to add the cost of each of the products together. Speaking of specific prices, Grant quickly realized that there was one small issue that he hadn't dealt with yet. He hadn't had a chance to think about how much his products should cost. I randomly picked the numbers $5 for wipers and $3 for a nozzle but he's probably going to want to make a little bit more money than that. For some reason, his friends who had promised to buy his products didn't seem particularly worried about how much they would cost. But he wanted to get closer to crunching some numbers so he could figure out what kind of fortune his Gleaming Glasses products would give him. So right now, we have this very general equation that we came up with in the last quiz for the total amount of money that Grant's going to make, but as we can see there aren't any numbers in this yet. What we want to do is get the actual price of each product to be involved in this equation in some way. So what other information do we already have about this situation? Well, we learned that 36 people want to buy glasses wipers. We also know that 11 people each want two nozzles. What we don't know yet, is the price that Grant should set for each product, a set of wipers and one nozzle. Similar to what we did before, let's pick one variable to represent the cost per wiper set and another variable to represent the cost per nozzle. I think I'll pick w to represent the cost per wiper set and I'll pick n to represent the price per nozzle. Looking back up at this equation we came up with in the last quiz, let's just start by focusing on the amount of money that Grant's going to earn from selling wiper sets. So for now, we're just going to ignore the part of the equation about the nozzles. So, which of these expressions down here do you think should replace this question mark? How much money is Grant going to earn from selling wipers to 36 friends? So, we decided to call the price per wiper set w. That means that if Grant sells one set of wipers, he'll earn w dollars. If he sells two sets, he'll earn w+w dollars, which is 2w dollars. If he sells three sets, he'll earn w+w+w, or 3w, and so on and so forth. Since you know that he is going to sell 36 wiper sets, that means he's going to make 36w dollars off of the wipers alone. So, 36w is the correct answer. Now that we've dealt with our money from wipers, let's move on to figure out how much money Grant's going to make, from selling this first batch of nozzles. Remember that, 11 people, each asked him for two nozzles. Also, we decided that n is equal to the price per nozzle. This is for one nozzle, not for two nozzles. So, which of these choices do you think is equal to the money he is going to earn from these nozzle sale so far? So part of figuring out how to solve word problems well is figuring out what information isn't important for the question that we're trying to answer. We want to know how much money Grant's going to make from selling nozzles. All that this is going to depend on is the price per nozzle and how many people want to buy nozzles. That means that these answers with 36, which has to do with the people who want to buy wipers are irrelevant for this question. Also w is the price per wiper set not per nozzle, so this answer which depends on w can't be correct. And this one even though it also involves an n, involves a w so, it can't be right either. We're only focusing on nozzle sales here. So what are we left with 11, 11 times 2 and 22 and 11n. Well, this looks pretty good nothing having to do explicitly with wiper sales. However, these 2 answers 11 and 22 don't involve an n. That will mean that no amount or how many nozles Grant sells, he's going to make either just $11 or $22. I would hope that, for his sake, the more nozzles he sells, the more money he makes so we want to say that those answers aren't correct. So now we have 11 times 2n and 11n. The key here is remembering that each of these eleven people want two nozzles. Not just one nozzle. So each person who buys two nozzles is going to pay him not n dollars but 2n dollars. If 11 people paying 2n dollars so that means we need 11 times 2n which is this answer right here. So from our last two quizzes, we now have developed a new expression for total money earned by Grant. Instead of money from wipers, we have 36w, where w is the amount that each set of wipers cost. And instead of money earned from nozzles, we have 11 times 2n, where n is equal to the amount that a person pays for one nozzle. Now when I look at this term 11 times 2n, it looks a little bit complicated to me, definitely more complicated than 36w does. Can you think of a simpler way to write 11 times 2n? Now, there are a ton of different ways that we can write 11 times 2n and come up with a mathematically equivalent expression, but I would prefer that we try to come up with a simpler way to write this. So, if you have an idea of how to do that, please type it into this box right here. So one way to look at the term 11 times 2n is to think that we're adding 2n to itself 11 times. Okay great, we have 11 2ns added together. However we know that 2n is just equal to n+n. So we can write this yet another way. For each 2n we can instead write n+n, so we end up with n+n plus. So, for every 2n that we had in this equation, I wrote n+n instead. Now I actually already counted all these n's up and it turns out that there are 22 of them. So we know that 22n's added together is just equal to 22n. So apparently 11 times 2n is equal to 22n. That means that we can come up to our equation for the amount of money that Grant is going to earn and replace 11 times 2n right here with 22n. Writing up and counting out those 22 n in the last quiz took me a really long time, so I can only imagine how torturous it would have been if I had, had to multiply 2n by a number bigger than 11. Fortunately there is a much easier way to simplify terms than adding them together like we did then. To talk about how this works, let's start by considering a term. Lets say, 5x times 7y times 2z. Now remember, a term is a bunch of variables or numbers, or both, that are multiplied together. And before we start playing around with this term, I'd like to add one more word to our vocabulary, factor. Now, factors are things that we multiply together. Just like terms are things that we add together. So this term, 5x times 7y times 2z, is made up of a bunch of factors that are all multiplied together. Another way to think of a factor, is that it's something that a term is divisible by. Now, we can't forget that in this term there are invisible multiplication signs between the five and the x, the seven and the y, and the two and the z. So another way to think about this term is that it's 5 times x times 7 times y times 2 times z. So real quick, let's just have a quiz. Which of these choices down here is a factor of this term, 5x times 7y times 2z? Remember, you can think of a factor as something that this term is divisible by, or as something that you can multiply by some other set of factors to equal this term. Please check as many answers as you think So, let's just go through these answers 1 by 1 to figure out which ones are correct. Starting off with 2z, we see that this is something that is multiplied by 5x and by 7y in order to equal this term. So, this is definitely a radiance here. Now when we look at 5, we need to remember, again. Invisible multiplication sign between the 5 and the x. If we multiply 5 by x and 7y and 2z, then we get this whole term. So 5 is also a factor. Now 1 is where things get a little bit tricky and if you miss this one Not a big deal. This actually is a factor of this term, and actually, of any term. The reason that 1 is a factor for any term we might have, whether it's a number or a variable, is because if you multiply 1 by that term itself, you will end up with the term that you're looking for. So in our case, the thing that we need to multiply 1 by, in order to get 5x times 7y times 2z is just this term itself. I know that might seem a little bit complicated right now, but you'll have plenty of practice in the upcoming quizzes, to sort this all out. Bottom line, 1 is always a factor. Now at first you might think that 0 is similar to 1 in this way. But 0 is actually not a factor here. We can't divide this expression by 0. That would actually give us a solution that we don't know how to interpret right now. And there's nothing that we can multiply by 0 in order to get this expression, since 0 times anything is just equal to 0. So, 0 should not be checked off. We know that y is multiplied by 7. And also by 5X and 2Z to come up with this term. So we should check that one off as well, and X works in the same way so we've checked everything off except for the 0. That was great, I know that factors are alittle bit trickier than terms so I hope that this vocabulary is starting to make a little bit more sense. We'll keep using it really frequently. So now that we understand what factors were multiplied together to create this term, is there a more simplified way for us to write this? Thankfully the answer is yes. However before we can start to play around with this term, we need to learn about something called the commutative property. Specifically the commutative property of multiplication, since all of our factors are multiplied together here. The commutative property of multiplication basically tells us that it doesn't matter what order you multiply things together in. So, for example we know that 2 times 3 = 6. However, we also know that 3 times 2 = 6. That means we know that 2 times 3 is just equal to 3 times 2. If you want to talk about this with variables instead of with numbers we could talk about, let's say, x times z times y. Here we have three different variables multiplied together and we can rearrange these factors in any order we want and still get a mathematically equivalant expression. So we could have, a ton of different things maybe z times x times y. That's also equal to y times x times z or z times y times x, and so on and so forth. All these expressions and all the other ones that we could get, by rearranging these in other ways are equal to one another. So remember for multiplication, it doesn't matter what order you multiply things together in. This holds no matter how many things you want to multiply together, and it holds whether the factors are variables or numbers. Okay, time for a quiz. Now that we've talked about the commutative property of multiplication. Let's see if you can apply it when we're dealing with this term right here. 10 times m times 23 times 7. I would like you to check off all of the expressions down here that are equal to this term. Just a hint, there are probably going to be several that are right answers. So, according the commutative property, we can rearrange everything that we had multiplied together in this term in whatever order we want, as long as we keep every number we started with, or every factor that we started with. And, we still just multiply those number together. So, first I'm going to check and make sure that every answer choice has a 10, an m, a 23 and the 7 in it. And it turns out that this answer does it, so I'll put an x next to that. We will not be check, checking this box off. We know that we're only allowed to multiply these factors together, so any answer I see that has an operator besides a multiplication sign in it can't be right. So here, we have some addition. So, This answer isn't right, or this one, or this one. Now, there are two tricky things in here. There are parenthesis in this answer and in this answer. Remember, that another way to indicate multiplication is just to write factors next to one another, all in parentheses. We can do this instead of writing the dots for multiplication. So, in fact, checking these two answers that have the parenthesis in them, knowing now that parenthesis mean multiplication, we see that they are both in fact correct. Looking at our four remaining choices, all of these are also right answers. In fact, there are a number of other right answers that I just didn't chose to write down here. Any order that we create these four factors in as long as use to multiply them together will still be equal to this term. So going back to this term that we're looking at earlier 5x times 7y times 2z, we can start to use what we just learned about commutativity to rearrange all the factors that are multiplied together here, in whatever way we want to. Now, what I really want in this case is for all the variables to be on the back end of the term and all of the numbers. Are the constant factors to be at the front of the term. So please write in these slots an equivalent version of this term by filling in each slot with either a constant or a variable. So, we're just going to rearrange these terms in an order like this. Think about what answers are allowed because of the commutative property. Looking at this term, the constant factors are five, seven, and two. So, we can write those in the first three slots right here. Because of the commutativity of multiplication it doesn't matter what order we write the five, seven, and two in. Instead, I could have writen two, seven, five or two, five, seven or seven five two or any order of these three numbers in these first three slots. For simplicity sake, I'm just going to leave mine written this way, but you're answer is right as long as these three constant factors are in these first three slots. Now, what's left over to deal with are the variable factors. So for those, we have x, y and z. Here, it's important to remember, the invisible multiplication signs between these constant factors in the adjacent variables. Remembering that those are there is what's going to allow us to pull out the variables and move them around. So, I'm just going to keep x, y, and z in the order they're written in and fill them into the slots right here. Now, just like with the constant factors, we could write these variables in any order that we want to. We could write z,y,x, z,x,y, x,y,z, actually, that's what we have, [LAUGH] y,x,z, . Any order these three variables go in is correct as long as they are in these last three slots. So now, this is what our term looks like, 5 times 7 times 2 times x times y times z. Now, this definitely looks different from how our term originally did, but I wouldn't say that it looks less complicated yet. So our goal for this quiz is to make this look much more simple. So think back to when we were talking about Grant's gleaming glasses last time. We simplified this term, 11 times 2n to equal 22n. By using the same idea that we used to come up with that answer, can you think of a way to simplify this term up here? Try to squish it down as much as you can, and remember to get rid of any multiplication signs that you don't think need to be explicit. The first thing that I notice when I look at this version of our term is that we actually don't need these dots between the variables, and actually we don't need a multiplication sign between 2 and x either. Inside a term the only place we really need to explicitly indicate multiplication with the multiplication sign is between the constants. Factors, the reason that we really had to write them in between the 5, the 7, and the 2 before, was the dot, this didn't look like we were writing 572 x, y, z. So to start off, I'm just going to get rid of those 3 unnecessary multiplication signs. Remember if you kept them in, your term is still mathematically correct. It just contains a couple of extra symbols that don't necessarily need to be there. So now we have this 5 times 7 times 2 to deal with. Those are just numbers and we know how to multiply numbers together, 5 times 7 is 35. And 35 times 2 is 70. So we can replace 5 times 7 times 2 with 70, and write the remaining factors afterward, xyz. So now that we've worked step by step through how to simplify terms, I want you to try simplifying this term on your own. So, in this box to the right, please write the most simplified version that you can find of negative 5s times negative 2r times 3t. Remember, that these parenthesis just indicate multiplication. So that means that negative 2r is being multiplied by negative 5s, and by 3t, not subtracted from them. Good luck. Like we did before, we're going to start off by identifying the constant factors in this term, and then moving them to the front of the term. So our constant factors here are negative 5, negative 2, and 3. So we can write negative 5 times negative 2 times 3, as the first three factors of our rewritten version of this term. Then after that come the variables, s, r and t. So you multiply the constant factors by the variable factors. Remember that these multiplication signs between the variables actually aren't necessary. So I'm just going to get rid of those right away. Now, negative 5 times negative 2 is just positive 10. Remember, a negative times a negative. Equals a positive. So then we have 10 times 3, and 10 times 3 is just equal to 30. So we can replace negative 5 times negative 2 times 3 with 30, and then multiply that with the rest of the factors that are left over, srt. So our final simplified version of this term is 30 srt. Now to my eye, this looks much easier to deal with than this initial version of the term did. So I think we are making really good progress toward simplifying different expressions. So, I've already showed you one convention that we use when we simplify terms. We put the constant factors at the beginning of the term. When we do that, it makes it easy once we simplify because we end up with one coefficient and then all of the variable factors after it. People also tend to put the variable factors in alphabetical order. So, if you wanted to do that, we could say that this also equals 30rst. In order to make the change from 30srt to 30rst, we had to remember the commutative property of multiplication. Since we were allowed to switch the order of r and s without changing the value of this term. So, the order that variable factors are written in is just another convention in algebra. It's just something that's useful for us to use, but it doesn't change the fact that this version of the term that we had initially is mathematically equivalent to either of these other two simplified versions. Before we get to our final quiz on simplification, it's time that I introduce a new, wonderful tool that's called MathQuill. MathQuill's going to help format our expressions that we write so they look really beautiful when you type them in. That way you can make sure that what you're typing is really what you want to be typing. That the expression that you're writing is what you really want to be entering. This is mostly an issue when it comes to exponents since there's not an automatic exponent key on a keyboard. So, for example, if we want to type x to the 6th, then the keys you need to hit are x, carrot, 6 Now, of course, in order to make a carrot, you might need to type different things depending on what kind of keyboard you have. But you'll notice that when you type the carrot, the cursor in the box will move up into the super script spot, and you'll be able to type up here a little 6. It's pretty cool. Then, of course, if you want to get out of the super script position and back to writing the rest of your expression in the normal spot where you write numbers and variables, you need to type in an arrow key to move back down. So, if you wanted to type x squared y, you'd need to type x carrot 2. But then, to move from being up here to being back down here, you just use the arrow key. And then, you can continue typing. Here are a few things for you to try out. I've already, I've already given you some guidance on what to type for these first two, and then I'd like you to figure it out for these last two. However, it should be pretty easy to check if you're doing it right, because you want what's in the box to just look exactly like what's over here on the left. So, just try these out. Hopefully, these first two were pretty easy for you because I told you what to type. But for these last two, which probably were a bit more complicated than earlier ones, you can now see exactly which key you should type to get these expressions. If you had trouble with this, just go back and practice it again. We're going to keep using this throughout the entire course, so it's super important that you feel comfortable with this. I know it might feel a little bit funny at first, but I'm sure as you play around with it more, it'll become a lot more natural and intuitive. Now that we've talked about how to write exponents using MathQuill, I'd also like to tell you what we do with fractions. You'll notice that if you want to type 3 over 4 and get it to look exactly like this, all you need to do is type 3/4. Then, just like with exponents, if you want to continue typing something after a fraction, to get out of being in the denominator of the fraction, you just use a right arrow key. And then, you can continue typing like normal. So, try out those first two with the instructions that I've given you. And then, for the last one, which is a challenge problem, you get to use your new found understanding of our wonderful MathQuill tool to write both exponents and fractions. And even an exponent in a fraction. I already gave you the keystrokes for the first two. Then, for this last, super complicated one, here they are. Remember that you need to use arrow keys to move out of either being in a superscript position, for exponents, or for moving positions around in fractions. If you didn't play around with this a whole lot, you might want to take a second to go back to the last quiz. Type this one in again, and then use the arrow keys, the different arrow keys, to see where they move you around within the expression. I hope you're as excited about how pretty your answers can look using MathQuill as I am. I think it's really, really awesome. Let's do one more quiz to practice simplifying terms. This time, please simplify 4x times y times negative 3x. Remember that this negative sign right here, in front of the 3, is part of the factor negative 3. We're not subtracting 3x from y. We're multiplying 4x times y by negative 3x. So, keeping that in mind, please write the most simplified version of this term that you can over here. So as always, we're going to start to simplify this term by identifying the constant factors in it. So for those, we have 4 and -3. And remember, we want to move those to the front of the term, so that they are the first two factors that we have written. So this term is equal to 4 times -3 times the variable factors that we have left over, x, y and x. So right off the bat we know how to deal with two of the factors here. We know that 4 times -3 is just equal to -12. So we can replace 4 times -3 with -12 and then write the 3 remaining factors. There's something interesting here though. We have two variables that are the same. We have x and x. I'm going to rewrite this one more time with the order of the variables switched so that the x's are next to each other. That's just generally a good rule of thumb in algebra is to write things that you think are related to one another next to each other. This x times x is interesting. This is the first chance that we're going to get to use exponents. We've seen them already a few times in this course, but we haven't gotten to write our own factors with exponents in them. So, this may seem like new material or it may be review for you, but x times x can also be written with an exponent as x^2. In the same way, x x x = x^3, and so on, and so forth. Remember that in all of these equations right here, I didn't need to write any of these multiplication signs. If we had just written the x's directly next to one another, without any symbol in between, multiplication would still have been implied. So instead we could just have xx equals x^2. I just wrote this out to be abundantly clear. The exponents show how many of the same factor are multiplied together. Incidentally if 2 x's mulitiplied together is equal to X^2 then when we have just 1x is equal to x^1. This seems a little bit silly to write though, writing X to the 1 is more complicated than writing just x so, we usually don't move from having x to writing x to the first instead. So using this information about exponents, we can replace this x times x with an x^2. And with that information we can rewrite this term as -12x^2y. We're obeying all the conventions we know about how to write terms because we have the constant factor at the front, and then we have our variables in ascending alphabetical order. We have the x^2 before the y. That was awesome, I know that this was a pretty complicated thing that involved a ton of different concepts, some of which we haven't focused on a lot yet. But don't worry if exponents still don't feel totally comfortable, we're going to keep working with them a ton more. So now that we know how to simplify terms, we can get back to Grant and his gleaming glasses. Earlier, we came up with expressions for the amount of money that Grant's going to make from his friends buying his wipers, and also from them buying his nozzles, and we had an equation for the total amount of money earned. Saying that the total amount of money he's going to earn from his friends is equal to the amount that they spent on his wipers plus the amount that they spent on his nozzles. Now I'm going to add one more equation into the mix for you or rather create one more variable. Total money earned right here takes a long time to write, so instead I'm going to call this a different variable. Let's say a. So, with my other equations up here, I can also write total money earned euals a. So let's combine all this information that we came up with in our earlier quizzes and the new information that I just gave you that a stands for the total amount of money earned. Which of these expressions down here, do you think should replace this question mark, in this equation for a? You can check as many answers as you think are right. I know this is a lot to look at on the screen at one time, but once we come up with this final equation, we'll only have single letters and numbers, and no more words, in our equation, and that will make things much easier for the future. If we look at the information on the top half of the screen, this equation in orange right here is completely related to everything over here on the left. We know that instead of writing total money earned, we can write a, like we have in this bottom equation. So, we can cross this out and put a. And since we've figured out alternate expressions for money earned from wipers and money earned from nozzles, we can just substitute in those new values in these slots. So, we know that money from wipers is also seen over here, and it equals 36w. So, we can take 36w here, and put it here. We can do the same thing with the money from the nozzles. Money from nozzles is 22n. So, we can put that in this spot. Of course, we want to keep the operators that join these quantities together since we're just calling these quantities different names. So, we still have an equal sign and a plus sign. So, we should have a=36w, move the plus sign down, plus 22n. So our answer choice must be, well here is that exact thing written down, 36w+22n. The question is, are any of these other answers right? Well, we can go through one by one and eliminate ones we know are wrong. This has a bunch of factors multiplied together, so does this one. This one has four different terms added together, and that's not what we're looking for since we only have two terms up here. And all of the rest are at least almost in the form that we're looking for. 2w has never popped up anywhere for us before. This would mean that 36 people are each paying Grant 2w dollars. We know that in order to buy a set of wipers from Grant, you only pay w dollars, and that 36 people bought wipers, so this answer is not correct. We need something with just 36w in it. If we look at the remaining answers, there are some incorrect combinations of coefficients and variables. We know that 36 goes with w, not with n, so this answer can't be right, or this one. And we know that the coefficient of n needs to be 22. Since as we figured out a couple of quizzes ago, 11<i>2n=22n.</i> And we want each of the 11 people who are purchasing nozzles to buy two, so this answer isn't right, either. So, now we're left with just two answers. 36w+2n, which we know is right, and 22n+36w. Now, this expression is actually exactly equivalent to this one. So, it's right as well. In order to say that this is true, we have to use something called the Commutative Property of Addition. This is really similar to the Commutative Property of Multiplication that we've talked about a lot already. Except that this time instead of talking about switching order when you multiply things, we're talking about changing order when you add things together. So, just like we know that 2+3=5, we also know that 3+2=5. That means we know that 2+3=3+2. In the same way, if you have not just numbers but numbers and variables. Let's say, an expression like 36w+2n, you can rearrange the order of the terms that are added together and get an equivalent expression like 22n+36w. So, that means that both of these answer choices were correct. So now we have this wonderful straight forward equation for the amount of money that Grant's friends are going to pay him once they buy their glasses, wiper, and their spray nozzles. However just when we think we're starting to figure things out for him situation gets a little bit more complicated. Even though this means more work for us, this is great for Grant, because more of his friends have asked if they can buy his products. The day after his first round of requests came in, even more of his friends and his friend's friends heard about his new incredible inventions, and asked him to add to them, to the list of people to buy his products. 51 more people requested glasses wipers, and 25 more people wanted to buy 2 spray nozzles each. This equation no longer tells us the total amount of money that Grant's going to earn from his friends, and his friend's friends buying his wipers and nozzles. So, what we need to do is create a new equation. We need to come up with a different way to express a that takes into account this new information that we have, but also doesn't forget what we had before. We heard a lot of information in the last video, so here is just a summary of all of that on one screen. We can think about Grant's sales story so far as having two situations. The situation after the first day, which I'm going to call the before picture and the situation after the second day of selling, which is the present situation we're concerned with. The last equation that we came up with, a = 36w + 22n had to do with just the sales from the first day. So, I changed the name of the total money earned to a old to show that this is the money earned after the first day of selling. This equation still works if we're only interested in calculating the money that Grant earned from his friends after just that one day, but now, we want to find, is what I'm going to call a new. The money he's going to get from those people and from these new people who also want to buy. What we're going to do in this quiz is come up with an equation for a new, which should combine the information from a old with this new data about people who are also going to buy the wipers and nozzles. So, which of these equations down at the bottom is the correct equation for a new? The total amount of money that Grent will have after these people on the first day buy his wipers and nozzles, and these people from the second day buy his wipers and nozzles. This is a lot of information to take in, so I'm going to lable this quiz a challenge quiz. Actually many of the quizzes that you've had have been challenging, but I think that this one is especially difficult. Think really carefully about how many terms you think this new equation should have. Should it have two terms or should it have four terms? Also, there may be more than one correct answer. Even if you don't get it right the first time, just give it another shot. So we want a new, what we're looking for, to equal the total amount of money that Grant can count on getting from his friends after the second day of sales, so that needs to account for the money from the people who bought on the first day and the money from the people who bought on the second day. We already know from this equation that we came up with earlier that he'll make 36w+22n Dollars from the initial batch of buyers. So, that means the equation that we have down here still needs to have these terms in it. A couple of the equations don't, so I'm going to cross them off our list. Neither of these answers includes the money from the people bought from Grant on the first day. The other four answers that are left over All have 36W and 22N as terms. So that's great. However this first one only has 36W plus 22N. It doesn't have any information having to do with people who bought on the second day. So that can't be right, since we know that Grant will make some money off of that second round of buyers. To pick between these three remaining equations we need to go through similar steps for people who buy wipers and people who buy nozzles as we did in some of the earlier quizzes to figure out the terms in this equation for a old. We know that the price per wiper is still w. And since 51 more people are going to buy wipers we're going to need to add 51w in. In our equation. This choice doesn't have 51 w. It has 50 w. So it can't be right. Then for the money he'll earn from these 25 extra people buying two nozzles each is going to be = 25 2 n. Since n is the price per nozzle and they each buy two. If we simplify 25 2 n we actually get 50n. So we also need to have 50n, in our answer. Both of these last 2 choices have 36w, and 22n in them, and they also have 51w and 50n, so that means they are both correct. The only difference between them, is the order that the terms are arranged in. This is just another case, of the communative property of addition. Awesome job! I know this was a really tough quiz so great job for getting through it. As I said in the past several videos and quizzes, there are a ton of mathematically equivalent ways of writing any expression we might have. For example, if I rearrange the factors within any of the terms here, or rearrange the order of the terms themselves, or let's say, tack on a 0 at the end. The value of the expression on the right side of the equation doesn't change. However, there are certain convienient ways of writing expressions. Ways that actually make them simplier to deal with that we're going to want to use. We call this process of rewriting expressions; simplifing expressions. One really useful tool that can help us start to simplify and expression, or see if we can simplify it any further, is to change the order of the terms. We know that we're allowed to do this because of the communitive property of addition. So, how could we do that here? Let's just rearrange the terms on the right side of this equation so that both terms containing w are in the first two slots and the two terms containing n are in the last two slots. So please just type the proper terms into the proper slots. These smaller spaces are for plus or minus signs but you can also type in as you see fit. So hopefully, this quiz is a little bit easier than the last one we did. What we're trying to do first, is just identify the terms that have w in them. So, going through our equation up here, we see 36w and 51w. And we can just fill those in to these first two slots. Remember that it doesn't matter which order we write them in. It doesn't matter if we write 36w or 51w first, because of the commutative property of addition. Next we need to identify the n terms, so those are the two that are left, 22n and 50n. And we just want to write those in these two slots. Again, order does not matter because we're just going to add everything together. I'm just going to put the 22n first, since 22 happens to be my favorite number. The last step to make this a fully blown equation, is to add in our plus or minus signs between the terms. Here, in the top equation, every term is positive. We don't see any negative signs here. So that means that each of these signs is going to be a plus sign. When we switch terms around, there's no change to the value of each term. Nothing is going to become negative that used to be positive. So the only thing that's different about this bottom equation from this top equation is the order that we've written the terms in. So now that we have this equation for the total amount of money that Grant's going to make from people who bought his products the first day and the second day, it would be great if we could simplify it further, however we don't know how to do that yet. So, before we dive into this particular example, let's look at a slightly less complicated but similar problem. Let's say we just have some expression. I picked 3x - 5y + 6x + 9y. Now how can we simplify this expression? Well, I think we need to remember what each of these terms really means. So 3x for example is actually equal to x + x + x and 6x is actually equal to 6 x's added together. Right now, writing this out might not seem particularly helpful. But I think the reason that I chose to write these terms this way will becomes clear if we just rearrange the order of the terms in this expression. So now we switch the order of the terms around so that terms with x are next to each other and the terms of y are next to each other. Now we can see that the first thing we want to do is add 3x and 6x together. With all of the x's written out, that doesn't seem that hard. I just need to figure out how many x's, total I have down here. And if I count them I have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 9 x's. So I guess that means that 3x + 6x = 9x. Now, one thing we can notice is that, in order to get the sum of 3x and 6x here We don't actually have to count all the x's. All we really have to do is add the coefficients of the variables together, since 3 + 6 = 9. Once we have the coefficient, we just make sure that we multiply that by the variable that both of these terms have. We usually call this adding like terms, or combining like terms, as I've written at the top of the slide. Now that we've figured out how to combine 3x and 6x together to get 9x, can you figure out how to combine -5y and 9y? So just fill in the term that you think is necessary to make this equation true. Remember that in order to add 3x and 6x together, I simply added their coefficients and then multiplied by the variable they both contain to get 9x, since 3 plus 6 is 9, and the variable in both terms is x. We can do the same thing to deal with the y terms over here. So negative 5y plus 9y is going to be equal to whatever negative 5 plus 9 is times y. We know that negative 5 plus 9 is equal to 4. So our answer is 4y. And we can fill that in the box. Over here in our original expression, we have four different terms. And over here, we only have two terms. This is why we call this simplifying expressions. This expression is way more simple than the one over here is. Remember that I was allowed to put an equal sign here, between these two expressions, because they are exactly mathematically equivalent. In order to come up with the expression over here, I only played with the terms inside of this expression. I didn't bring anything in from the outside. The only way I modified it was by squishing together things that were already there. Since we've now had a little bit of practice with combining like terms, I want to make sure that it's abundantly clear which terms we're allowed to combine and which ones we're not. Terms that you're trying to add together can be combined if and only if two things are true. So first things first, the terms have to have exactly the same variable or variables. So examples of this will be terms like 3xy and 7xy or -4b and 15b. On top of this I have to add that each of these variables that correspond to another have to have the same powers or the same exponents. So, if we have the term 3x^2 and the term 6x, and we try to add those together, we cannot combine them. These are not like terms, even though they have x's in them, this is 3x^2 and this is just 6x to the first power. They don't have the same power, so we can't squish them down into 1 term. Another example of this would be something like 11ab^3 + 12a^2b3. Even if the b^3 factors have the same power, the a here only has a power of 1 and the a here has the power of 2. We cannot add these two things together because one of the variables involved does not have the same power in both terms. So, we cannot squish them down into one term. Now that we've talked explicitly about what it means to combine like terms, or combine terms that have the same variables with the same powers in the them, I'd like you to try an example of how to do this. Please simplify this expression, 7x+5y-10x+3y. Start by figuring out which terms in this expression are like terms, and then figure out how to combine them. Good luck. Just like we did in the example, we're going to start by rearranging the order of the terms in this expression, so the terms with the same variable are next to one another. Great, now, we have 7x-10x+5y+3y. The next step is to add together the coefficients of the like terms. Great, so now we have -3x, since 7-10 is negative three and the variable there was x, plus 8y, since 5+3 is eight. If we wanted to make this a little bit prettier, since we have a negative sign at the front, we could because of the commutative property, rearrange the order of the terms one more time. So, I personally prefer to write it this way, 8y-3x. So this is our new version of the expression on the left. It's almost hard to tell from looking at these two expressions that they're actually equal to each other, but that just shows you how powerful combining like terms is. We end up with an expression that's much nicer to look at and much easier to use. Now, this time we have a expression that's a bit more complicated than the past few we've seen. However, if we keep in mind our rules that we know for combining like terms, that you can only combine terms that have the same variables with the same powers, then this actually shouldn't be that much harder than the other one's we've done. So, just give it a try. Write the simplest version of this expression that you can in this box over here. The first thing we need to do in order to start simplifying this expression is to identify which terms are like terms. Negative 5x squared is the only term in this expression that has an x to the 2nd power in it. So, it is not like terms of anything else here. However, we have 6x and negative x. At first sight, these might both seem related to the x squared term. But remember, the power of the term matters. Both of these terms have x to the firsts. Remember, there are little invisible ones written when you just have a variable on its own. x is just equal to x to the 1st. Anyway, these two terms are like terms. So, I'm going to start to rewrite this expression with the like terms next to one another. Remember that the sign of the term, it belongs to the term itself, and moves along with it when we rearrange the order. Then the two terms that we haven't written yet are 14 and negative 3. These are just numbers, so they are definitely like terms, and we'll keep them next to one another. Now, that we've identified which terms are like terms, it's time to combine those like terms. So, negative 5x squared stays by itself, since we can't combine it with anything else. For the x to the 1st terms, we end up with a new coefficient of 6 minus 1 or 5, so, plus 5 times the variable, which is x. And then all we have left to deal with are the numbers, 14 minus 3 is 11 so we add 11 to the end. Once we've written down our final expression, we can check and make sure that none of the terms in it are like terms of one another. That is, we only have one term of each type in the final expression. This is an x squared term, this is an x to the 1st term, and this is a constant term. So, there's nothing more that we can combine. That means that we've reached the final stage of our simplification. Awesome. By now you've had a lot of practice with simplifying expressions. So here's a sort of challenge problem for you. Please try to simplify x^2 + 3xy - 7yx - y^2. As always, type your answer into the box right here. Now this is definitely more difficult, or at least a little bit trickier than what I've asked you to do before, but just give it a try. So, like we've done a couple of times before, let's start off by going through the terms one by one to see if any of them are like terms. X squared right here, is the only terms with an x squared in it. And negative y squared over here is also the only term with a y squared in it. However we have these two middle terms that each have an x to the first and a y to the first. In them. So, are they like terms. Well, according to our rules up here, they do have the same variables, and those two variables, x and y have the same power. The x here is x to the first, as is the x here, and the y here is y to the first, as is the y here. So presumably they are like terms. What we need to do is use the commutative property of multiplication, that we talked about a long time ago, to make these look the same. We know from the commutative property of multiplication that x times y or just xy is equal to y times x or just yx. So I'm going to rewrite this term right here, 7yx as 7xy instead. It's amazing how switching around the orders of factors within terms can change the way an entire expression looks. Now our job is pretty standard. The terms that we're not combining I'm just going to write as they are, so x squared is the same. And then I'm going to combine these two terms in the middle. So remember we add their coefficients. 3 plus negative 7, or 3 minus 7 which is negative 4 times the variables x and y minus y squared which doesn't change By this point, you've had a bunch of practice with combining like terms. So, let's go back to that problem we were doing with Grant and his glasses wipers and nozzles. Here's the equation we had. a, the total amount of money he's going to earn from his friends buying his products is equal to 36w plus 51w plus 22 n plus 50 n. Last time you saw this, we didn't know how to combine like terms. But, now you do. So, in this box, I would like you to type the most simplified version of this entire equation that you can come up with. Remember, I'm looking for the whole equation, not just this expression. You need to include the a equals in the equation down here. So, since we know that we are trying to write an equation and not just an expression,I am going to start off by writing a equals in our box down here. So, since I know that the left side of the equation is not going to change at all. Then I can start to combine my like terms. Conveniently, our terms with w are already written next to each other and our terms with n. It was so nice that we did that for ourselves earlier. This is pretty straightforward then. Since these are like terms, I can just add their coefficients. 36 plus 51 is 87. And I multiply that by the variable w. 22 plus 50 is 72. And that gets multiplied by the variable as well. Awesome. We're one step closer to helping Grant figure out how much money he's going to have after these first two batches of friends pay him. We've simplified terms by combining factors within them, and we've combined like terms. So, let's try to do both of those things at the same time. Here, we have a very long expression, 15x squared plus 3x to the 7th minus 7x times 2x minus 4 times 2x minus 5 times 4 plus x times 3. That took a really long time to write and a really long time to say. So it would be awesome if we could simplify this. That is what I would like you to try to do. Now if this looks daunting, no big deal, just give it a try. You have absolutely nothing to lose. Writing your work on paper first will definitely help you. Also, remember to try to simplify within each term first, and then once you've done that, to identify what the like terms are in this expression, then you can work on combining them together. Good luck. The 1st thing that I'm going to, in trying to simplify this expression, is to look at each of the terms and figure out if I can squish it down at all. So first, we have 15x squared, there's nothing that I can do to make that more simple on its own, so I'm just going to rewrite it. Then 3x to the 7th, same thing. Then I come to. Negative 7x times 2x. Now, there are definitely some factors here that I can combine. If I rearrange the order of these things I can put negative 7 and 2 next to each other and then the x's at the end. Negative 7 times 2 is negative 14, so I'll have a coefficient of negative 14. And then we have times x times x and we know that x times x is just. x to the 2nd power. So I can write that as well. Moving on we have negative 4 times 2x. We can again combine the constant factors. So you have minus 8x, negative 5 times 4, 5 times 4 is 20. So we have negative 20 plus x times 3. We could just rearrange the order of those two and then we have 3 times x. Which is just 3x, so plus 3x. Great now each of the terms in and of itself is as simplified as it can get. The next step is to figure out which terms are like terms. I'm also going to already start writing like terms next to each other in a modified version of the equation. We have 2x squared terms, only 1x to the 7th term, 2x to the 1st terms and 1 constant term. Now I just need to combine the terms that I know are like terms. Remember that we add the coefficients of like terms together and then multiply by the variable. 15 minus 14 is 1, so we have 1 times x squared or just x squared, 3x to the 7th is on its own, it's not combined with anything else. Negative 8 plus 3 is negative 5, times the variable x, and then we have our constant term. So this right here is our final answer. Our long, not very pretty expression, has been squished down to be something much more managable. In the next few minutes, I'm going to throw a couple more vocabulary words into our mix. First I want to talk about a special kind of expression. In fact, the kind that we've seen most up to this time. These are polynomials. A polynomial is an expression, made up of constants, variables, or both, that are combined using addition, subtraction, or multiplication. So this basically means that we have one or more terms, like we've talked about before, added together. The variables in a polynomial also have to have non-negative integer exponents. So as an example of a polynomial, we might have something like 5 x cubed minus one-half x y plus 7. Or maybe z plus 6 z squared, minus 7 plus 9 x cubed, plus 8 x to the 5th. So, some polynomials that we see will have more than one variable in them, like these two right here. But often times, we'll also see polynomials that have just one variable involved, or maybe even none. So, an example of that might be something like 4 n cubed plus 3 n squared plus 1. But again, any combination of constants in variables using these operators, and only these kind of exponents, makes a polynomial. So now that we've talked about what polynomials are, and seen a few examples of them, which of these expressions are not polynomials? Notice I want you to check the ones that are not polynomials, not the ones that are polynomials. Remember the three requirements that an expression must fit in order to count as a polynomial. I have listed them right here in case you need to check. And if you have trouble with this just go back and watch the last video to refresh yourself on what apolynomial is. Goodluck. Three of these are not polynomials, but the rest of them are. We learned that a polynomial is an expression that only uses addition, subtraction, and multiplication to combine constants variables. But this first trace right here has a big division sign in it, dividing one expression by another expression. Now if we had either the numerator or the denominator of this fraction on its own, then both of them would be polynomials. But because they're divided, this is not a polynomial, so we'll check that one off. We'll talk more about expressions that look like this later on the course. One of our other important rules is that a polynomial must have exponents in it that are only non negative integers. Right here we have x to the 1/2 and 1/2 may be positive, but it's not an integer, so that means that this is not a polynomial. We can think about that rule again when we look at this answer choice right here, -6x^5+x^-3-11x+9. All of these terms in here are fine for being part of polynomials, except for this one x^-3, because -3 is a negative integer exponent, not a non-negative integer exponent. So that means this expression is not a polynomial. It may seem a little bit funny that 6 counts as a polynomial. We don't often talk about numbers or variables on their own as polynomials, but they technically do qualify since they do fit our definition. We said that polynomials could have just variables, just constants, or both. So 6 and all other constant terms are technically polynomials. We're going to talk about polynomials throughout the entire rest of the course, so it's great to get a handle on how to find them. Now that you know what a polynomial is, we're going to talk briefly about a word that we use to characterize a given term in a polynomial. The degree of a term. Now, the degree of a term is equal to the sum of all the exponents of all of the variable that are in that term. So if we have a term like negative 4x cubed, then the degree of this term is 3. Since we have an exponent of 3 for the only variable that's in the term x. Another way we could say this is that this is a 3rd degree term. Now if, in contrast, we have a term like 6y to 7th, z to the 4th, the degree is 11 or we could also say this is a 11th degree term. Now the degree is 11 here, because for a first variable we see we have a power of 7 and for the second variable we have a power of 4. y and z are the only two variables in this expression, so the degree is equal to the sum of their powers, 7 plus 4 equals 11. We just said that the degree of return in a polynomial is the sum of all the exponents of all the variables in that term, so the degree is a number. Now knowing that, I would like you to write in each of these boxes, what the degree of the term next to them is. So just fill in the proper number in each of these blanks. Our first term right here only has one variable in it, x. And the power that x is taken to is 4. So that means that the degree of this term is 4. This is a fourth degree term. Now this next one is a little bit tricky. 100 is just a constant term. It doesn't have any variable factors in it. Or in other words, it has zero variable factors. So this means that it's degree is 0. This is true of any constant term. If we had the number say, 78 here instead, or negative 432 or 19.3 any constant term, no matter what it's value is has degree 0. So that means 1/2 over here which is also a constant term has a degree of 0. So another way to think of this is that if we desperately wanted to have a variable in a constant term, we didn't want to change the value of the term, what power would that variable need to be taken to? So let's say we have 1/2 here and we want an x in that term. In order to keep this term equal to 1/2 we need to have x be to the 0 power since Any thing, any variable, any constant to the 0 power equals 1. That means we would actually have 1/2 times 1, which is just equal to 1/2. But even if we choose to write the term in this way with a variable involved the power of that variable is 0. So this is still a 0 degree term For this next term y we need to remember that any variable that doesn't have an exponent written explicitly actually has an invisible 1. As its power. So this term has a degree of 1. It's a first degree term. And lastly we have x squared, y squared, z cubed.. So the degree of this term is just going to be 2 plus 2 plus 3, which is equal to 7. Just as we can talk about the degree of a term, we can also talk about the degree of an entire polynomial. The degree of a polynomial is just equal to the highest degree of any of its terms. So to figure out the degree of a polynomial we first need to figure out the degree of each of its terms just like we did in the last quiz. If we look back at one of the polynomials we used earlier. -12x^7+3x^2+64x, we can see that this is a 7th degree polynomial. We figure this out by first calculating the degree of each term, so this one is a seventh degree term. This is a second degree term, and this is a first degree term, because of the invisible 1 next to this x that stands on its own. The highest number out of 7, 2 and 1 is 7, so this is a 7th degree polynomial. Considering this definition of the degree of a polynomial that we just discussed, what is the degree of each of these polynomials down here? Please fill in your answer in the box to the right of each expression. Let's go through these 1 by 1. So first, x cubed plus 6y squared. We want to start by finding the degree of each term. So the degree of this first one is 3 and the second term is 2. Since we have exponents of 3 and 2, respectively. 3 is greater than 2. So this is a third degree polynomial. Next 7 minus 3x plus 8x cubed y. You have degrees of 0, 1, and 4 since we have 3 plus the invisible 1 on this y equals 4. 4 is definitely the largest of these three numbers so this polynomial is of degree 4. So we can do the same thing for the last two polynomials as well. One interesting thing to note is that the degree of a polynomial is usually information that comes from just one term in the expression, the term with the highest degree. But in some cases, like in this last example, might have more than one term that's of the same degree. So for example, here we have x squared which is a second degree term and z squared which is also a second degree term. Having 2 terms of the same degree. Doesn't change what the highest degree we see here is. We just happen to see that highest degree twice. We still follow the typical rule and say that this is a polynomial of degree 2. So far we've seen polynomials. The terms haven't been written in any particular order. Remember we learned before about the commutative property of addition. Changing the order that you add terms together in has no effect on the value of the expression; a plus b is just equal to b plus a. So any set of terms that you have added together can be written together in any order. And will still be mathematically correct, regardless of which of those orders you choose to use. However, there is a convention that people use in algebra to help them figure out what order to write their terms of a polynomial in. It's pretty simple. The tendency is to write terms from highest degree to lowest degree. So for example, if we have this polynomial, y + 6xy. Minus y cubed. We can first figure out the degree of each term, and then rearrange these terms so that the term with the highest degree comes first. And then the rest of the terms continue in descending order of degree. A polynomial written in this way is said to be written in standard form. So again writing a polynomial in standard form doesn't make it any more mathematically correct than writing the terms in any other order. But mathematicians usually find the standard form a bit more visually appealing and it also can help us understand the polynomial as a whole a bit more quickly than we could if we wrote the terms in a different order. Since in standard form the term with the highest degree comes first, we only need to look at that first term to figure out what the degree of the entire polynomial is. So that's why standard form is particularly convenient. Please write these two polynomials in standard form. If you need to peek, the definition of standard form is right here in the top right-hand corner, but try to do it without looking up here. Let's start by finding the degree of each term in either polynomial. So I'll go ahead and do that right now. Once we figure out the degree of each term in either expression, we rearrange those terms that the term with the highest degree comes first and then the rest of the terms go in order of decreasing degree. So for this top polynomial, we'll need the terms to go in order of degree from 3 to 2 to 1 to 0. So that's going to give us 32x cubed minus 16x squared minus 7x plus 12. We can do the same thing for the second polynomial. Written in standard form, this polynomial is negative 12x to the 7th plus 3x squared plus 64x. X. Now that we have them written in this way, we can see right off the bat that this top polynomial is a third degree polynomial and this bottom one is a seventh degree one. So, standard form definitely makes our job easier. Remember that standard form is something that applies to all polynomials, not just ones with single variables or ones with just x's. You'll get more practice with other polynomials in standard form later. So we've been talking about simplifying terms in the context of simplifying expressions for a while, and our whole goal with doing all this is to make our expressions look prettier. To make them easier to read, but still let us know what kind of math we're talking about. So something we're doing a lot of is taking shortcuts. In fact, most of the time that you do this, you probably don't even realize that, that's what's happening. Lets say for example that we have something like 2 plus 2, plus 2, plus 2, plus 2. So we have five 2's added together. Now normally if we wanted to express this quantity, we wouldn't write it this way. We wouldn't write all the 2's added together. Instead we would say, okay, how many 2's do you want to add? 5, well that's just the same as 5 times 2, since we've added 2 to itself 5 times. So as it turns out, multiplication is actually just a major short cut to repeated addition. In the same way, we can use exponents to indicate repeated multiplication of the same number. So let's say that instead of having 2 plus 2 plus 2 plus 2 plus 2 We have 5 2's multiplied together. In this case, we can use another kind of shortcut. We can rewrite this using an exponent, Just like we talked about in the last quiz. You may have already had a lot practice with exponents in previous courses, but just in case you've forgotten exactly how they work, we're going to talk about that right now. So let's write this, these 5 2's multiplied together, using exponential notation. So we're going to start by identifying the number that we want to multiply it by itself. So in that case this is 2. So let's write that down, and then we count how many of these 2's are multiplied together. So we know that we have 5, And we take that number 5, The number of 2s we're multiplying. And we write that as a superscript of 2. So superscript is just a small number written to the upper right-hand corner of this other number. And we call 2, the number that we're multiplying over and over again, the b ase number, and we this little 5, its exponent. Now, since you're going to be entering most of your answers on a computer for this class, or probably all of your answers, actually, considering this is an online course, you're going to have to type in answers with exponents in a special way. So what you do is you type in the base number, normally, so you would type in a 2. But then, in order to type the number that's in the exponent, or in order to indicate that this 5 is in this exponent slot, we need to write a caret before the 5. So these are the three keys that you will type, in order, to enter this exact answer on a computer. It's like this little arrow here is pointing up to indicate that this number that follows it is going to be in that higher elevated exponent position, as you can see down here. Now if you have more than just a number in the exponent, then you put parentheses around the entire expression that you want to have positioned in that exponent spot. So basically, exponents give us a convenient notation for showing repeated multiplication of a given number or variable or combination of numbers and variables. So, knowing that, how would you write 7 times 7 times 7 times 7, using exponent notation? So, I know that you can evaluate this expression to equal just a number without any exponent, but for right now, I want you to make sure that you use exponent notation for the question. So, since 7 is the number that we're multiplying by itself over and over again, it is the base number, and it goes here as the big number that we write first. Now, we have four of these 7's multiplied together so the exponent that we want is 4. So that means that 7 times 7 times 7 times 7 equals 7 to the 4th power. Now, there are several different ways of saying this answer out loud. You can say 7 to the 4th power 7 to the 4, 7 to the power of 4, or just 7 to the 4th. Certain other exponents have special names that we use, but they're pretty self explanatory. For example, 7 times 7 is equal to 7 to the 2nd power. But instead of saying that, we might also say 7 squared, right here. In the same way, if we have three 7's multiplied together, 7 times 7 times 7, we get 7 to the 3rd power. But sometimes we say 7 cubed instead. This time, we have x times x times x time x times x times x, that's a lot of x's to write down. So, what's a different way that you can rewrite this term using exponent notation? Please just use one number or variable in the base, and one number or variable in the exponent. Remember that on a computer, you need to write the base number and then the carrot sign, and then the exponent number. x is the thing that we're multiplying by itself. So, it is the base. And then, there are six of them multiplied together, so that is the exponent number. Again, the way that you needed to write this on the computer was x, carrot, 6. This shows that 6 is being shifted up into the exponent slot. So now I'm going to give you a break, and let you actually write just a number as an answer to a quiz. What number, not written in exponent notation, or anything, is negative 3, that quantity, to the 4th power equal to? Since we have parentheses around the negative 3 here and the exponent, the 4 is written outside of those parentheses. That means that the exponent applies to the entire quantity that's inside the parentheses. So, the number that counts as the base number is negative 3. Negative 3 is the thing that we want to multiply by itself 4 times. So, that means we can rewrite this. As negative 3 times negative 3 times negative 3 times negative 3. Now you can just evaluate that numerically. Negative 3 times negative 3 is just positive 9. So you get positive 9 multiplied by itself which is just equal to 81. So our final answer is 81 Now, if instead I have negative 3 to the 4th power, what number does that equal? Is this any different from the quiz before this one? So, let me help you recall the last quiz first things first. Before we show that if we had negative 3, the entire quantity taken the 4th power, that was equal to positive 81. The difference between that question and this question here, is the lack of parenthesis in this problem. This time we need to think about order of operations. I'm not going to do a super in depth review of this here, but we're going to give you plenty of review problems to practice it, and we'll also keep touching on it at different points throughout the course, since it's pretty fundamental to doing algebra or any other kind of math. You may have heard some sort of mnemonic device or acronym earlier to help you remember The order that we do different mathematical operations when we're evaluating expressions. So I, for example, learned PEMDAS. Now, each of these letters stands for a different mathematical operator. The P, here, is for parentheses. The E, here, stands for exponents. The M stands for multiplication. The D stands for division. The A is for addition, and the last but not least, the S is for subtraction. So this can serve as a guideline, to tell us what order we do all these different operations in, when we're looking at some set of numbers and variables combined together with these operators. So in the last question we did, for example, since the P for parentheses comes before the E for exponents, we knew that the negative sign needed to be applied to the three. Since it was inside the parethesis before, before we took that number to an exponent. There are no parenthesis written out here. So we really have, when we have a negative sign in front of a number, remeber is negative 1 times that number. So negative 3 is actually equal to negative 1 times 3. And we take this 3 to the 4th power. The 4 is only attached to this 3 now because there are no parenthesis that surround the negative sign as well. Since PEMDAS tells us that we evaluate exponenents before we multiply we first need to figure out what 3 to 4t h equals before we can multiply that by negative 1. So we know that 3 to the 4th is equal to 3 times itself 4 times. So now I will just multiply all this out and we get negative 81, so you can see that negative 3 to the 4th power gives us a completely different answer than the whole quantity of negative 3 taking to the 4th power. Parenthesis make a huge difference from using exponents so I say please don't forget to take advantage of review exercises we give you. You want to make sure that things like order of operations, that you've probably seen in previous courses, feel completely comfortable for you. So, if you're having trouble at all with this, or just want to make sure that you totally understand it, do a bunch of our practice problems. This is going to help establish a really strong foundation for you as we move forward in this course. To make sure that you're super solid on order of operations, and evaluating expressions using exponents, here's a kind of fun quiz for you. Please decide whether each of these expressions is equal to 8, negative 8, or something else, neither of those two. Pick the circle and the proper column for each row. So again, in order to figure out how to evaluate each of these expressions, we need to use our order of operations knowledge. We need to remember our PEMDAS. For this first problem, negative 2 to the third power, we don't have any parentheses, so that means we need to take the exponent into account before the negative sign. So we have negative 1 times 2 to the third power, which is the same as negative 1 times 8. So we get negative 8. The next problem has some parethesis in it, so we need to deal with what's inside of those first. And inside we have negative 2 squared. Just like in this first problem, you need to do the exponent before the negative sign. So what's inside the parethesis here, is negative 4, since we have negative 2 squared, which is negative 4. So this equals 2 times negative 4 which is just negative 8 again. For the third problem, we have an exponent outside of something that is inside of parentheses. SO we know the negative sign is going to be part of the number that is taken to the exponent, so the entire quantity negative 2 is squared. So this is equal to 2 times negative 2 times negative 2. Which is the same as 2 times positive 4, which is positive 8. Again we have a negative sign inside the parenthesis. So it's part of this number that is taken to the 3rd power. So negative 2 times negative 2 times negative 2 is negative 8. Here the negative sign comes outside the parenthesis. So you have negative 1 times positive 2 to the 3rd, 2 to the 3rd is 8. And negative 1 times 8 is negative 8. Our last two problems, both fall into the neither category. 2 plus 2 squared, is just equal to 2 plus 4, which is 6. Which is not equal to either 8 or negative 8. And here we have negative 2 squared plus 2 squared. Since there's not a parenthesis around this negative 2, we know that we need to square 2 before multiplying it by negative 1. So this is actually equal to negative 4 plus 4, and that's equal to 0. Great job, I know this a lot to do in 1 quiz, but I think that having to thi nk through all these different options that are sort of similar to each other could be a really good way to make sure you have your order of operations sense cemented. And if you don't, not a big deal at all. Remember, just go back and practice a little bit more. Just to change things up a little bit, what if we have 3^2 times 3^4? That's going to equal three to some power, but what is the exponent that should go here? Let's start by expanding out each of the things that we have with an exponent. So, we know that 3^2 is just equal to 2 threes multiplied together, so 3 times 3. And we know that these two things are also multiplied together, so we need a multiplication sign between these two threes and these four threes. So, again, we just have a bunch of threes multiplied together and, as we know, exponents are just a tool for writing repeated multiplication of the same number in a shorthand way. So our base is going to be three since three is being multiplied over and over again, and we have six of them multiplied together if you count them out. So the exponent is six. Remember, typed in, you need to type 3^6. So, what we saw in this last quiz was really interesting. Remember that we started out with 3^2 times 3^4, and we ended up with 3^6 power. What we need to notice here is how the exponents are related to each other. 2+4, our two original exponents, is equal to 6, the final exponent. So, this actually shows us a general rule for multiplying factors that have exponents. If the two numbers are multiplying together have the same base, then their exponents just add to one another, and the base stays the same. So, let's write that in a more general way. If we have some number, or variable a, and it's taken to the power of b, and that's multiplied by another number a that's taken to the power c. Then together, that multiplication can be written as a^b+c. So, like we saw in the last quiz, 3^2 times 3^4=3^2+4=3^6, just like we found out in the end. Since exponents indicate repeated multiplication, since each of these factors right here is just the number or variable a being multiplied by itself over and over again some number of times. When they are multiplied together, it's just even more a's multiplied together, or some different number of a's multiplied together. This is just a convenient way for us to not have to write out all of the numbers like we did when we were doing this last quiz. So, remembering this rule that we talked about before, that the factors that have exponents with the same base are multiplied together, their exponents just add. What would be a different way to write x squared times x to the fourth time times x to the third using exponential notation? Remember that x squared. It's just x times x or 2 x's multiplied together. X to the 4th is just 4 x's multiplied together and we're also multiplying that by another 3 x's that are multiplied together. So here we have a big string of x's all multiplied together, just like we would expect, considering how many exponents we see here, but the same base of over and over again. So, in total here we have 9 x's all multiplied together. And we know that this just equals x to the 9th power. However, we can or rule to do this in a much shorter and easier way. We can get the same answer by just adding these 3 exponents together. We know that our base is still x, but our power is just 2 plus 4 plus 3. 2 plus 4 is 6, plus 3 is 9. So we get the same answer. So, what if we have the term x to the 5th times 3 squared times y cubed times x to the 8th? How would you simplify that? Please write your answer in as simplified a form as you can. Let's first rewrite the factors within this term, so that the factors of the same bases are next to each other. And I'm also going to put the constant factor first. So I'm going to start with 3 squared, then we have 2 factors that have a base of x. So I'll put those next to each other, and then the last thing we have is the y cubed. Well, we know that 3 squared is just 3 times 3, and 3 times 3 is just 9. We also know that when we have x to the 5th times x to the 8th, that's the same as x to the 5 plus 8 power, and nothing is being involved with the y cubed, so it's just going to stay the same. You'll notice I got bit of those multiplication signs between the different factors in the term. Since they are implied, we just don't write them. Now, the thing you need to simplify here is add together the two numbers in the exponent of the x. So you get the final answer of 9x to the 13, y to the 3rd. I think that you're going to find all of this practice with manipulating exponents really useful, as we keep simplifying expressions. How would you handle this term y^4 x^2 y^-2? Remember, all these are multiplied together. Please write the most simplified version of this term that you can right here. To solve this problem, we can, once again, use this trick that we learned earlier. We have two factors inside this term that have the same base. So, we have y^4 and y^-2. So, I'm going to start by writing those next to each other. And now, we know that y^4 times y^-2, is just going to be equal to y^4+-2. So, I rewrite the x^2 factor and we have y^4+-2, which is the same as 4- 2power. 4-2 is just 2, so our final answer is x^2 y^2. So remember that in the last quiz you simplified y to the fourth x squared y to the negative two to equal x squared y squared. But in doing these we actually dealt with something we haven't talked about explicitly before. This negative exponent right here. My question for you now is basically what do negative exponents mean? So which of these five answers down here. Is an equivalent expression to what we started out, with y to the fourth x squared y to the negative two? Remember whatever you pick down here, also needs to give us the final answer of x squared y squared in the end. So think about what intermediate step you need between here and here. And which one of these answer choices fits that? This is definitely a little bit tricky. As we saw in the quiz before this one, when we multiplied y^4 times y^-2, we used our short cut to say that this is just equal to, of course, leaving the x^2 there, y^4-2 power. The role that this -2 exponent here plays then, is that it makes it so that, in the final answer, which we know is x^2y^2, we have two fewer y's multiplied together than we did in at least this first part, the y^4 factor of the original expression. But how do you write y^-2 in terms of multiplying some number of y's together. Well if we know that y^4xy^-2=y^2. And also, we remember that y^4 is four ys multiplied together. And similarly, y^2 is two ys multiplied together. This y^ -2 needs to cancel out two of these other four ys that are multiplied together, to give us our final answer. Now, we know that the way that we undo multiplication is division. y^4 needs to be divided by y^2, to equal y squared, we can write this out like this. We have four y's multiplied together, divided by 2 y's multiplied together, and each of these y's in the denominator cancels out one of the y's in the numerator, since everything here is just multiplied together. This is how we end up with just two y's multiplied together. Together, since we can see that we only have y times y left on the left side. If we just look at this way of writing our expression though, we can write both the numerator and the denominator in terms of exponents. So, on the top, we still have y^4 and the bottom of our fraction we have y times y, which is just y^2. So, if we move this way where an expression appear to be end up with y^4 times y^-2=y^4/y^2. We see this factor may be not we so need to multiply this pair x ^ 2 to get a final answer. In this answer choice right here, y^4x^2/y^2. So, what we learned from the last quiz is that, when you have a negative exponent, you can rewrite whatever term you're dealing with, so that we're instead, dividing by that factor inside the term. So, negative exponents are actually veiled ways of writing division into our term. The way we know what we're dividing by, is to find the factor with a negative exponent, which is just y^-2, in this case. And we move it underneath the factors of the positive exponents to make it the denominator of the term. So, on the right side of the equation where we've moved it, it's now in the denominator. And we've also changed the power of the base to be positive instead of negative. So, we flip the sign of an exponent from negative to positive or from positive to negative. We need to move the factor or the base number that the exponent is applied to, to the opposite side of the fraction. If it's in the top, it needs to move to the bottom and if it's in the bottom, it needs to move to the top, and we also flip the sign of the exponent. So here, we change from negative to positive. So basically, if we have some number, let's call it x and it's taken to a negative power, let's say, that's -a, where a could be any number, or really any expression. Then, this is equal to 1/x^a. So again, we multiply the exponent of a number by -1. We need to switch which part of the fraction the factor it belongs to is part of. I know that what's on the left side here doesn't look like a fraction, but this is actually secretly x^-a/1. So, anything that doesn't look like it's part of a fraction is actually in the numerator of your fraction, where the denominator is 1. Using what you just learned about signs of exponents and how that relates to the side of the fraction they're on, how could you rewrite 3y-1 x^3 in fraction notation? So, just fill in what you think belongs in the numerator here and what belong in the denominator here. There are a bunch of different mathematically equivalent ways of doing this, but I want you to do it in a way so that you have something that's equal to this expression but so that there are no negative exponents in either the numerator or the denominator over here. We know that this exponent of -1, attached to the base of y here, means that we can rewrite this factor, y^-1 as 1 / y^1. And we know that y^1 is just y. So y^-1 = 1 / y. Now lets insert this, in this spot of y^-1 in this term. So now, we have 3(1/y) x^3. All of these factors are just multiplied together, so we can write our fraction right away. In the numerator, we have 3 and x^3. And, the only thing written in the denominator is the y. So, our final answer is 3x^3 / y. So here's a quiz that looks pretty similar to the last one we did. How can you rewrite 3m ^ 2 / n ^ -4 so that it contains no negative exponents? What I'm going to do first to deal with this negative exponent factor is separate it out from the rest of the factors. So I'm just going to multiply a little bit more explicitly. So you have 3m^2 times 1/n^-4. However, we know that when we have a negative exponent, n^4 in our case, these factors actually equal to 1/n^4. So I need to replace just the denominator of this fraction right here with this number. So that's going to give us 3m^2 times 1/1/n^4. This is really not looking very pretty. However, we know how to handle this. Dividing by a fraction is the same as multiplying by its reciprocal. So, for example, we have 1 over a/b. That's just equal to 1 times b/a. So we can continue modifying this expression using that trick. This is going to equal, keeping the 3m^2, we keep the numerator here, and we multiply by the reciprocal of the denominator. So the reciprocal of 1/n^4 is just n^4/1. Well now this is easy. You know that anything times 1 is just itself. And we know anything divided by 1 is just itself. So this leaves us with 3m^2n^4. So again, we see that switching the sign of an exponent, so switching from negative 4 to positive 4 here for the factor with the n base. Just requires a flipping of the exponent sign and a flipping of the side of the equation that factors on. We switch from having n^-4 in the denominator to having n^4 in the numerator. If you found working with fractions like this a little bit difficult, not a big deal at all. Just take some time to review manipulation of fractions with the materials that we've directed you to. We've looked at some exponential functions. But, now we're going to take a short break from them to look at representing very small and very large numbers. Imagine you want to travel to the far, far regions of the known universe. Out past Mars, right past Pluto, out past where Voyager is sending back images, far beyond our own galaxy, past our nearest neighbor, Andromeda. On, and on, and on, traveling over. Well, traveling a very long distance, a distance so long that it's hard to express with words. We could write this out as 5, another 5, and then 22 zeros if you want to talk about it in miles. In kilometers, this would be 8, 8, and then 22 zeros, or perhaps you want to examine some bacteria. How big is a tiny organism like this. If we wanted to talk about how long the bacteria is, we could write it like this, 0.0000005 m. Apart from it being really boring to write out all those zeros, it's easy to make a mistake when we write out numbers like this, and it's also hard to read. We really need a better way to write quantities like this. And guess what, there is one. It's called scientific notation. And as you've already seen, it's very useful, especially when we're talking about very big and very small quantities. Let's get ready to talk about it. Scientific notation is written in a very specific form. So people all over the world can compare numbers that are really large or really small. That form is a times 10 to the b. Note this x here denotes mulitiplication. It is not a variable. This formula requires that this first number here is a number between 1, which included, and 10, not included. And then this is multiplied by integer power of 10. So an example of something like this would be 5.6 times 10 to the 2. Notice that 5.6 is in fact a number between 1 and 10. This is something we need to be very careful about. And it's easy to make a mistake. For example, we can make one very small change. If instead, we have 56 times 10 to the 2, we are no longer writing in scientific notation. 56 is not between 1 and 10. Now I'm going to write down several numbers. And I'd like you to tell me, which of them are not written in the proper form for scientific notation? We have 5 times 10 to the 12th, 6.543 times 10 to the negative 4, 6 times 10 to the 6.5, 1.2 times 100 to the 4th, 0.5 times 10 to 3rd, 4 times 2 to the 6th. And last but not least, 325 times 10 to the negative 7. The numbers here that I've put boxes around are the ones that do not fit in the form of numbers in scientific notation. In the next question, we will look at why. Here are all of the numbers that we selected in the last question. For each of these numbers, I would like you to check off the reason why it is not in scientific notation. Your choices are, it does not have a between 1 and 10, including 1, and not including 10, the base is not 10. And lastly, b is not an integer. Remember that general form for scientific notation, a times 10 to the b. Let's go through these one by one to see what the problem with each of them is. Remember, we're going for this form right here. For 0.5 times 10 to the 3rd, the first number here, which is a, is not between 1 and 10, so that is our problem. The base is 10 and b is an integer. For 6 times 10 to the 6.5, b is not an integer since it's 6.5. In 4 times 2 to the 6th, the base of our exponential part of our expression is 2, not 10, so that is our problem. Next, we have 325 times 10 to the negative 7. Once again, the issue is with a. 325 is definitely greater than 10. And finally, 1.2 times 100 to the 4th. Again, we have a value of the base that is not 10, 100 is not equal to 10. Next, we are going to look at how to enter the numbers we've been talking about into a calculator and convert from scientific notation. For example, 3 times 10 the 3rd to a notation we usually use 3000. Now, your calculator may differ a bit from the one that I'm going to use. And I would encourage you to use your own calculator, or choose Google calculator, like I'm going to. Let's think about the number, 5 times 10 to the 2nd. If you take this into a scientific calculator, and then pressed Enter, what number do you think the calculator would show you? 10 squared is 100, and 5 times 100 is 500. So I'm going to guess that this is what my calculator would show. Let's check, here's my calculator, so let's enter this number. We have 5 times 10 to the second power. That looks right. Let's press e equals sign. Sure enough, we get 500. Now I'd like you to take a turn using Google's scientific calculator, just like I've been using. There's a link straight to this in the instructor comments for this video. In that calculator I'd like you to enter each of these three numbers. When you press enter or the equal sign, what do you get? To be clear I'd like you to type in here exactly what the calculator tells you. For the first one, we just get 31,000. For 3.1 times 10 to the 10, we get this much longer number. It's 3, 1, and then 9 0s. This is 31 billion, in fact. For this last one, 3.1 times 10 to the 21, we get a kind of funny answer though. When I type this in, and then press Enter, we get 3.1 I don't know what this means. Well this is actually just how the calculator shows, 3.1 times 10 to the 21st. This e is not the special number that we met in the last lesson. E here just stands for exponent. And it means the exponent of 10 is 21. And if there's a positive sign here, that's just to distinguish this from negative 21. Some calculator show this differently. So check yours to see what it displays, when you enter the same number. Also as a challenge, see if you can guess how you'd write this number in the same format as these other two we already saw. How many digit's do you think it has? To figure out what was happening in the last question, let's just look at one of those numbers as an example to explore more. How about that first one? 3.1 times 10 to the 4th. We can keep 3.1 as is, but we know that 10 to the 4th can be written differently. This is just 10,000. So, 3.1 times 10 to the 4th is equal to 3.1 times 10,000. What do we do now? Well, you may remember that to multiply a number by 10, you add a 0. But in reality, what you're actually doing is moving the decimal point of the number one place to the right when you multiply by 10. And in some cases, this requires the addition of a 0. For example, if we look at the number 31 and we want to multiply it by 10, we need to note that the decimal point is invisible, but it's technically right here. We need to move it from being right after the 1, the one place to the right. And since there's nothing here right now, we need to add a 0 in, then we put a decimal point after that 0. In this case though, we're dealing with 10 to the 4th power, so what do we do in that situation? Well, for each 10 that's here, this number is going to get ten times bigger, so the decimal needs to move one step to the right in each of those factors of 10. The first time we move it, we end up with 31. The next time we move it, the decimal point would be out here, and here we have one of those invisible spaces. We know we're going to need to put a 0 there, but let's not derail ourselves at this point. We've already moved over two times, so that takes care of two of our four factors of 10. We need two more. There's our third and there is our fourth. So our decimal point started out right here. And in the end, it's all the way out here to the right. We went from having 3.1, to having 31, to having 310, to 3,100, and finally, to 31,000. This is where our decimal point would belong if we decided to write it in. We know it's generally invisible though, for numbers that don't have decimals written outside of them. To give you a chance to try out what we've been talking about, see if you can write out that number that we had at the end of the last question. 3.1 times 10 to the 21. How would you write this using our normal number notation, not scientific? We know that we need to multiply 3.1 by 10, 21 times. So that means we need to move this decimal point to the right 21 times. Let's do it. Okay. I'm going to start with our number we have originally, 3.1, and let's get ready to move. Okay, count with me. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenty, and twenty one. well that was a lot of work. The exponent is 21, and I just verified there are in fact 21 loops here. We know that each of these empty ones needs a 0 in it. So let me write those in. There we go, this is our final number. We've moved the decimal point all the way out here. Turns out 3.1 times 10 to the 21. Is a pretty big number. In all the examples we've looked at so far, the exponent has been positive. Let's see what happens if it's negative instead. Now we have 3.1 times 10 to the negative 4. What is this equal to? You can use your calculator to figure this out. Let's use our calculator to plug in this number and see what happens. We have 3.1 times 10 to the negative 4 power. I double check that that looks right and hit the equal sign. We get 0.00031. Interesting. So, why do we get such a small number for this calculation? Well, if you think way back to when we did exponent notation at the beginning of the course, we talked about negative exponents and what they are. x to the negative 1 means 1 divided by x. x to the negative 2 means 1 over x squared. So if we multiply something by x to the negative 1, we really want to divide that by x. And if we multiply something by x to the negative 2, we really want to divide it by x squared. So if we multiply something by 10 to the negative 4, what we really want to do is divide it by 10 to the 4th. With multiplication by 10 to the positive 4, the answer we got was bigger than the number we started with. But, when we divide by 10th to the 4, it gets smaller. For each factor of 10 we're dividing by, the decimal point moves one step to the left. So, we start with 3.1, then 1 factor of 10 makes it 0.31 and we keep moving it. As before, we end up with these blank spots, we need to fill in zeros. Our decimal point is right here now. So what we actually have is, as we saw before, 0.00031. Now, note that I put a 0 in front of our decimal point, to the left of it. Now this is the technically correct way to write decimal numbers in general. If you miss out on writing this, it's kind of like using slang for everyday speech. People will still know what you mean but its not quite as correct. Its not quite as proper in mathematics. So now that we've seen one example of using a negative exponent in scientific notation, I'm going to give you another one to try out. Here is 3.1 times 10 to the negative 7. This time try without using a calculator to write this in normal number notation. To write out 3.1 times 10 to the negative 7th, we need to divide 3.1 by 10, seven times. So that means we need to move the decimal point seven times to the left. Let's do it. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. So this is where my decimal point belongs now. Let's fill in our zeros. We have one to the left of the decimal point, and then we have six more zeros before we get to the 3. So our answer is 0.00000031. That's a pretty tiny number. Here are some more numbers written in scientific notation. Thinking about what you know about exponents, try to figure out which of these quantities matches each of these distances. You might want to think about the order of the sizes in each list to figure this out. Here are the numbers that are your options. 1.5 times 10 to the 11th meters, 2.4 times 10 to the 22nd meters, 1.7 times 10 to the 1st meters, 8.8 times 10 to the 5th meters, and 2 times 10 to the negative 4th meters. Each of these matches one of these distances and here are those distances. The distance from the earth to the sun, the height of a human, the distance from San Francisco, California to Paris, France, the distance to the Milky Way's nearest neighboring galaxy Andromeda, and the size of an ant. Now, just in case you didn't know, a meter is a little bit shorter than a yard. It's about the length from your nose to your fingertip if you hold your arm out sideways. Here are our solutions. 1.5 times 10 to the 11th meters is the distance from the earth to the sun. 2.4 times 10 to the 22nd meters is the distance to the Milky Way's nearest neighboring galaxy, Andromeda. 1.7 times 10 to the 1st meters is the height of a human. 8.8 times 10 to the 5th meters is the distance from San Francisco to Paris. And 2 times 10 to the negative 4 meters is the size of an ant. What is the world population written in scientific notation? Use Google to find the number. Round your answers so that this first box contains an integer between one and nine, including one and nine. There are seven billion people in the world, about. So that's 7 times 10 to the 9th. Now I'd like you to add two numbers in scientific notation. What is three times 10 to the 6th plus 6 times 10 to the 4th? Here are some choices for you. 9 times 10 to the 8th, 36 times 10 to the 4th, 306 times 10 to the 4th, 9 times 10 to the 10th, 3.6 times 10 to the 6th, and 3.06 times 10 to the 6th. Make sure that the answer you pick is also in scientific notation. 3 times 10 to the 6th is three million, and 6 times 10 to the 4th is 60,000. So adding these together, we would get 3,060,000. Written in scientific notation, that is, 3.06 times 10 to the 6th. So what can you learn from this? Well you can't add things that have different powers of ten. That's like saying $400 plus $30 equals $700. That would be really great if I was being paid that. But it would also be pretty horrible if you were shopping and all of a sudden everything cost a ton of money. Luckily, this is not actually an equality. We need to be careful about when we are adding numbers that are in scientific notation. We have 3 times 10 to the 3rd small ants. And each one is of the length 2 times 10 to the negative 4 meters. They form one long line. How long is that line? Here's a hint. Think about multiplying. You don't need to give your answer in scientific notation. Just write in a normal number here. One way that it's helpful to approach word problems is to start off by thinking about what information we already have. In this problem, we know that the number of ants is equal to 3 times 10 to the 3rd, and the length of one of those ants is 2 times 10 to the negative 4 meters. Once we know what information we have to work with, we can think about what we want to find. In this case, that's the length of the entire line of ants. All these ants lined up in one line. To get from this information to this information, we need to multiple these two numbers together. So, we need to calculate 2 times 10 to the negative 4th, times 3 times 10 to the 3rd. Now the way we would normally write those numbers, would be 0.0002 and 3,000. So two 10,000ths times 3,000 is equal to 0.6. So now we can conclude, that the whole line of ants is 0.6 meters long. For ant questions, it was fine to convert our numbers from scientific notation to being normal decimal numbers, and then multiply them together. But what if the exponents were much bigger? We'd probably get lost in all the zeroes we'd have to write, or at least I would. I think we need a better strategy. When we're multiplying two numbers in scientific notation together, we can use something we learned about very early on in this course. It's the commutative property of multiplication. Let's see how this works. Let's say that we want to multiply 2 times 10 to the negative 4th, by 3 times 10 to the 3rd again. Well, the commutative property of multiplication says that we can rearrange the order of any of these things we're multiplying together. What we actually have over here, even though we have some grouping by parentheses right now, Is just four numbers multiplied. Either ignore the parentheses and just say 2 times 3 and then multiply that by the 10s but they're exponents. We can rearrange this so that instead we multiply the 2 and the 3 together. And then we multiply the two factors with the bases of 10. Now what is this equal to in scientific notation? Think back to the start of the course again, when we talked about how to combine exponents, when the base is the same. 2 times 3 is just 6 and then we're multiplying that by 10 to the negative 1 power. Now I know that a negative 1 belongs here because we multiply terms that have the same bases, we just need to add the exponents. Negative 4 plus 3 is negative 1. This gives us that same answer of 0.6 that we had before. Now, here's another problem for you to try using the same method. Multiply 1.2 times 10 to the 8th, by 4 times 10 to the 7th. Fill in the numbers you need here, for scientific notation. 1.2 times 4 is 4.8. We multiple this by 10th to the 15, since 8 plus 7 is 15. There's one important thing we need to note here. Using this method, your answer is not always going to end up in scientific notation, since sometimes, depending what two numbers we have multiplied here, this number won't end up being between 1 and 10. So, make sure that if you decide to use this method, you look at the final answer and double check that it is in fact in scientific notation. If it's not, adjust it properly. One thing that has fascinated me for literally my entire life, is stars, and how far away from us they are. Did you know that when we look at a star, like the sun for example, we're looking at something from the past because of the time it takes the light to reach us. That's pretty weird and pretty awesome, I think. So let's work out how long it takes the light to reach us from the sun. As you saw before, the distance from the earth to the sun is approximately 1.5 times 10 to the 11th meters. Light travels at a speed of 3 times 10 to the 8th meters per second. As we can see from the units of speed here, meters per second, speed is equal to some distance, divided by the time it takes to go that distance. Now thinking about this equation, what do we need to do to calculate time? Do we need to multiply speed by distance, divide distance by speed or divide speed by distance? We need to divide distance by speed to find time. Let's look at this equation to figure out why. Time is in the denominator, so let's multiply both sides by time. Then we have that speed times time equals distance. Now we just need to divide both sides by speed. And we get time equals distance over speed. The distance from the earth to the sun is approximately 1.5 times 10 to the eleventh meters. And light travels at about 3 times 10 to the eight meters per second. We just found that time is equal to distance over speed. So can you tell me how many seconds it takes for light to travel from the sun to the earth? You can use your calculator or you can try to think of another way to do this. To find the number of seconds this is going to take, we need to divide 1.5 times 10 to the 11th by 3 times 10 to the 8th. Let's use our calculator to do this. We have 1.5 times 10 to the 11th. You want to divide that by 3 times 10 to the 8th. And look at that. We get 500. 500 seconds is just over 8 minutes. So when we look at the sun, we're seeing 8 minutes into the past. That's some crazy stuff. Now, again, there is a way we can do this without a calculator. We can just divide 1.5 by 3 and then multiply that by 10 to the 11th over 10 to the 8th. If you do that, what numbers do you end up with? Think about how you divide these terms when the base is the same. 1.5 over 3 is 0.5, and 10 to the 11th over 10 to the 8 is 10 to the 3 and you divide terms that have the same base, you just subtract the exponents. This number is actually not in scientific notation, but we're not going to worry too much about that. Now I'd like you to divide, 8 times 10 to the 20 by 2 times 10 to the 8th. Let's rewrite this just like we saw before. We can write it instead as 8 over 2 times 10 to the 20 times 10 to the 8. This gives us 4, and here, we have 10 to the 20 minus 8 or 10 to the 12th. So scientific notation gives us a great way to deal with very small and very large numbers. Numbers expressing the vastness of the universe, numbers expressing tiny cells in the body. There're are even smaller quantities around us, the building blocks of everything. A scientific notation is also very useful for describing. In the last lesson, we saw that some things can grow and decay exponentially. We explored things like this with functions of the form y equals a to the x and y equals a to the negative x. But, exponential functions can also be multiplied by constants, just like we saw with different forms of interest. For a continuously compounded interest for example, we looked at the equation a A equals P times e to the rt. Where P is the amount of money invested, the principal, r is the rate of interest per year written as a decimal, and t is the time in years that the money's been invested for. Another example of a function that fits this form is the way that bacteria die off when a drug is administered. In this case, P represents the initial amount of what we're starting with, which this time is the number of bacteria, r this time is the decay rate of how quickly the bacteria die off, and t here is the time period we're considering measured in hours. So for example, if the starting number of bacteria is 1,000 and the rate at which they decay or die off is negative 0.5. What is the function B of t for the number of bacteria alive after t hours? Please write it in here. We know that B of t is in the form P times e to the rt. In the problem, we found out that P equals 1,000, and r equals negative one half, or negative 0.5. Let's plug those numbers in. That gives us the equation B of t equals 1,000 e to the negative 0.5t. Let's take a look at what this graph looks like for this function. The graph for this function looks like this. The horizontal axis represents t, the number of hours that have passed. And the vertical axis represents B of t, the number of bacteria that are remaining. We can see we have a nice exponential decay curve. Now let's see how many bacteria are alive after some hours of treatment. Please find B of 0, B of 1, the number of bacteria left after 1 hour, and B of 2, the number left after yet another hour has passed. You can use a calculator to work these out and please round to the nearest integer since we are calculating bacteria after all. For B of 0, I just plug 0 for t into our function. Since e to the 0 is 1, you just have 1000 times 1 or a 1000. This is what we would expect, since this is a starting value of the number bacteria. And, as we just calculated, it's the value when t equals 0. We're off to great start. Plugging in 1 for t, we end up with 1000 times e to the negative point 5. My calculator tells me 606.53, and I'll round that to 607. So after 1 hour has passed, almost 400 bacteria have died. Plugging in 2 for t gives us an exponent of negative 1. My calculator tells me that's about 367.87, rounding a bit already. Which if we round to the nearest integer gives us 368. After another hour only 220 more bacteria have died. But that makes sense when we look at the graph over here. We can tell that as we move further to the right the graph is getting less steep. So it's less steep between the values of t 1 and 2 than it is between 0 and 1. You've seen how many bacteria are left after one hour and after two hours but now I would like you to work out how many hours it will be before there are fewer than 5 bacteria left. Now, we haven't directly covered this but think about different things you could do to get an approximate answer. This zoomed in version of our graph might help you or maybe you could try another method. Also, please round your answer to the nearest hour. One way to solve this problem is to look at the graph and see that it's between 10 and 11 hours that the graph drops below 5 bacteria. So, after 11 hours, there are fewer than 5 bacteria remaining. Now, if you wanted to get a more accurate answer, you could use the method like we used when we were finding zeros using the intermediate value theorem. You could plug in two values of t into the function that you can tell on either side of the point we're looking for. So maybe like, t equals 15 and t equals 5. Then you could zoom in closer and closer to the point by considering smaller and smaller intervals in time. But this is really time-consuming. If only there were a quicker method. In the previous video, you saw that you could use this graph by checking the y values and reading off the corresponding x values to find different points. But wouldn't it be easier if the value that we've been using for y were actually the input and the value we were reading off was the output instead? We actually already know about this sort of thing. Which of these terms down here best describes what we're looking for? Is it the composition of B of t, the inverse of B of t, the reflection of B of t in the y-axis, the reflection of B of t in the x-axis, or the y-intercept of B of t? Please consider this the x-axis and this the y-axis for the purposes of this question. We are looking for reflection but it's not in the x-axis or in the y-axis. It's in the line y equals x. That means that we're looking for the inverse of B of t. We know that we want to find the inverse of B of t equals 1,000 e to the -.5t. Which we know is going to be the reflection of that graph line y equals x. So, that means we're looking for the equation this graph right here. This is B of t and this is B inverse of t. Well let's think about how we might want to do this. While we could divide both sides by 1000, and then maybe we could take the t root, of both sides. That will get rid of the t on the right hand side, in the exponent. But we would still have an exponent of t over here. since we know that the t root is the same as taking this to the one over the t power. So that's not going to help without that at all. We actually need a totally new idea to solve this problem. And that ideas named by a Scottish mathematician named John Napier discovered in 1614. His discovery was something called a logarithm or just a log. We'll look at some simpler examples first log and then come back to this example about bacteria once we have all the tools we need to deal with it. Let's try to build up some intuition about the inverses of exponential functions. Let's use f of x equals 2 to the x as an example to play with. We're going to think about how the input and outputs of this function, and its inverse, are related. So, here's the graph of f of x equals 2 to the x. Just like you've seen many times before. And then reflected in the line y equals x, we see its inverse, which for now we're just calling f inverse of x. We know that if we input 3 to the function f, we'll get the output 8, and that means that if we input 8 into the function f inverse, We'll get an output of 3. We know this, because we know that x and y has switched position in our inverse functions. To find out more about our functions, f and f inverse, I'd like you to fill out this table. For each value over here, fill in the corresponding value over here. These are inputs of f, and these are outputs of f. Which means these are outputs of f inverse, and these should be inputs of f inverse. The outputs of f for each of these inputs are each of these numbers, 1, 2, 4, 8, 16 and 32. These are just the numbers we get when we plug in each of these values for x in 2 to the x. That means that on our function f of x equals 2 to the x, we have the points 0,1, 1,2, 2,4 and so on. And that also means that for the function f inverse, we have the opposite points, 1,0, 2,1, 4,2 and so on. We're definitely learning a lot about these two functions and how they're related. So what does this tell us about the inverse f of x equals 2 to the x? Well, let's just pick one of these pairs of values down here to examine a little bit closer. From the table, we knew that f inverse of 8 equals 3. So for this inverse function, which of these statements is true? The output is half the input, the output is the square root of the input, the output is the base when the exponent is 2, or the output is the exponent when the base is 2. This last choice is correct. The output is the exponent when the base is 2. If we have input 8, then we can write 8 equals 2 to the 3. And the output is 3. We mentioned logs before, so let's actually use them now. Just like exponents have a base, so do logs. If, for example, like in this function we have here, our exponent has a base of 2, then so does the log that is its inverse. Let's plug a number in and try something out. We know that for this function, f of 3 is equal to 2 to the 3rd, or just 8. Using logs, this means that log base 2 of 8 Equals 3. I know this is all very new, so if this sounds confusing or unfamiliar, that's not a big deal at all. Don't worry. We'll keep working with these, and you'll come to understand them very well in a short period of time. Now, we can see more clearly what's going on here if we rewrite this 8. We can instead put 2 to the 3rd there, and this shows what's really happening. We know that log base 2 is the inverse of what's happening here. And we can see here that it really is undoing what happened to the original 3, that input. With a function f, we input 3 and it output 8. When we input that number, the output, into the log function, in other words, when we took log base 2 of 8, the output was the original input. This inverse function, this log function, undid to the 3, what f did to it in the first place. Let's look at this in a different way. When we input 3 into our exponential function, it spits out 2 to the 3rd. Then when we use 2 to the 3rd as the input for the logarithmic function, that's the inverse of the exponential one The output is three again. Similarly if we use three as the input for a logarithmic function the exponential function undoes what the log does. In other words two to the power of log base two of three. Is equal to 3. This is just confirmed, that these two inverse functions behave just like other inverse functions. F of F inverse of X, gives us X and F inverse of F of X, gives us X. So, here's a couple for you to try, on your own. What is Log base 2 of 16? And what is log base two of 64. Giving you a little hint for how to think about these, try to rewrite 16 as two, two some power. What power belongs here? And how does that effect what number goes over here? Maybe you can think about this one in the same way. 16 is 2 to the 4th power and taking the log base 2 of 2 to the 4th means undoing to the 4 what this exponential function, 2 to the 4th, did to it. So that means taking it out of the exponent. That gives us 4. Log base 2 of 64 can also be written as log base 2 of 2 to the 6th, which means that this is just 6. I have a couple more problems that I'd like you to try out. What is log based 2 of 2 and what is log based 2 of 1? We can rewrite 2 in exponential form as 2 to the 1st power, which means that log base 2 of 2 to the 1 is just 1. Interesting. If we want to rewrite 1 as 2 to some power, it's 2 to the 0. So it looks like log base 2 of 2 to the 0 should be 0. These are definitely some special values. Now, here's a bit of a trickier one. How can you write 1 half as a power of 2? Try to think about that and then see what answer that gives you for log base 2 of 1 half. Back at the beginning of the course, we worked a lot with exponents. So, if you remember that well, then great. But if not, let's look at a certain pattern. We know that 2 to the 2nd power is four, and we know that 2 to the 1st power is 2, 2 to the 0 is 1. So, every time we decrease our exponent by 1, we're halving the numbers over here. So, if we need to halve 1, to get 1 half, which is what we're looking for, then we need to decrease this exponent one more time. So that means that 1 half should be equal to 2 to the negative 1. That means we can write log base 2 of 1 half as log base 2 of 2 to the negative 1. That just gives us negative 1. I think it's time to try a new base. How about 4? What do you think log base 4 of 16 is? Think first about how you can rewrite 16 as 4 to some power. Thinking along those same lines, what is log base 4 of 4 and what is log base 4 of 2? To get 16, we need to square 4. So log base 4 of 4 to the 2 should be 2. 4 to the 1 is equal to 4, so this should be 1. And the way we get 2 is by taking 4 to the one half power. That definitely is a little bit tricky. So this should be one half. Remember, taking the square root of something is the same as taking it to the one half power. I think it's time to switch things up a bit and see some numbers that can't be written as rational powers of the base. We're also going to pick a new base to work with, log base 10, which is one of the most convenient bases to use because there's a button on calculators for it. In fact, I'd like you to use your calculator to do these problems. You'll probably be able to figure out a few of them on your own without the calculator, but it makes sense to use it just to make sure that the buttons work the way you think they do. In fact, on many calculators and sometimes in textbooks and other places, instead of seeing log base 10. You'll just see the word log without a base written, this usually means log base 10. In fact, let's look and see what my calculator has on it. Sure enough, there's just a button that says log with no base. This is log base 10. So let's say I want to find log base 10 of some number. Well, 11 is my favorite number as you know, so let's try that. You can see I press log, and then enter the number that I'm looking for. Close the parentheses for good measure and press equals and there we go, a long decimal. I'm going to try another just to humor myself. How about log base 10 of 2,314? Why not? There we go. So here are a bunch of log base 10 problems for you to figure out. I'll demo one on the calculator just to make sure that it's working like we think it's going to. To find log base 10 of 1 if I didn't want to use the calculator, I'd rewrite 1 as 10 to the 0. So that means this should give us 0. Let's make sure our calculator's working the way we think it is. So to find log base 10 of 1, I press log and then 1. Close the parentheses and sure enough we got 0. Great. Now you get plenty of chances to try this out on your own. I could figure these first three out on my own without a calculator, just by using the method we've been using. I rewrote each of the numbers we wanted to take the log base 10 of as 10 to some power. 1 is 10 to the 0, so that gave us 0. 10 is 10 to the 1, so taking its log in base 10 gives us 1. And log base 10 of 100 equals 2. However, I don't know how to write the number 2 or the number 20 or the number 200 as 10 to some power. So for these, I need to use my calculator, let's try one of them out. How about the first one? So, log base 10 of 2 equals this long decimal. I'm going to round to the fifth decimal place. Entering the last two problems on the calculator, gives me long decimals as well. Log base 10 of 20 is 1.30103, about. And log base 10 of 200 is about 2.30103. Please remember, these are rounded answers. Lets reflect for a second on the problems that you just solved. Look closely at the answers here, can you see any similarities between different answers? What's the relationship between 2 and 200 and the what's the relationship between the log of these 2 numbers? Do you see a pattern anywhere? I'd like you to think about this for a moment and we'll look into it further in a later lesson. There is something pretty cool going on though. Now you've had some time to play around with logs. So, let's get back to thinking about how to graph them. We're going to need to think about their domain and range and any special points on the graph. So to get closer to doing that, I have a question for you, and that question is. What do you think will happen if we try to find log base 10 of 0? I'll give you some choices. Your options are, it's 0. It's 1. Are you trying to trick me? 0 isn't in the domain of f of x, equals 10 to the x, so it can't be in the domain of log base 10 of x. Or finally, are you trying to trick me? 0 isn't in the range of f of x equals 10 to the x, so it can't be in the domain of log base 10 of x. This last choice is correct. There's no value of x that lets 10 to the x equal 0. So that means 0 is not in the range of f of x equals 10 to the x. Since log base 10 of x is the inverse of this function f, it can't be in the domain of log base 10 of x. That means that we can't find log base 10 of 0. This value is just undefined. Since we've been talking about points on these curves, let's graph them. Here's the graph of f of x equals 10 to the x and here's the curve of g of x equals log base 10 of x. Since these two functions are inverses, there's a link between their domains and their ranges. Using interval notation, I'd like you to find the domain of f and the range of g and the range of f and the domain of g. We know we can plug any number for x into an exponential function, like 10 to the x. So that means that the domain of f is negative infinity to infinity or all the real numbers. This also, then, is the range of g. We know that no matter what number we plug in for x, in 10 to the x, this function cannot reach 0, and also can't drop below 0. So the range of f, goes from 0 to infinity, none inclusive. This is also the domain of g. This brings up something really important to know about logs. The input to a log must be greater than 0. It is not possible to find the log of a negative number. This is a super important point and we definitely need to keep it in mind as we keep working with logs in the future. Since we are on the topic of graphs, let's just look at a bunch of different graphs of log functions. Here we have f of x equals log based 2 of x, f of x equals log based 4 of x, f of x equals log based 10 of x, and finally, f of x equals log based e of x. Here, the base is that special number e that we mentioned before. What I would like to know right now is what point all of these paths go through? The all go through the point 1,0, as we can see right here. Each of them has the same x intercept. It doesn't matter what base we use, whether it's 2, 4, 10, e, or any other number. We will always have log of 1 equals zero. And that gives us the point, 1,0. This corresponds to the point 0,1 on the exponential function graph, since as we saw before, a to the 0 is always equal to 1 regardless of what a is, unless it's 0, since 0 to the 0 is not defined. Just a note, whenever the base is e, we don't usually write log base e. Instead, we usually write the letters ln. You should have a button that says this on your calculator. Since the base of a log corresponds to the base of an exponential function, what values is it allowed to take on? Let's say that the base of a log is a. Could a be all real numbers? All positive real numbers? All positive real numbers except 1? All non-negative real numbers? Or all non-negative real numbers except 1? For an exponential function of the form f of x equals a to the x, we know that a must be greater than 0, and a cannot equal 1. Now, since logarithmic functions are the inverses of exponential functions, the same must be true for the base of a log. That means that this choice, all positive real numbers except 1, is correct. The positive real numbers are the numbers greater than 0, and if you don't include 1, that means that they can't equal 1. Remember that if we let a equal 1 and see what happens we end up with a function f of x equals 1 to the x. This is just equal to 1, which means it's just a horizontal line. This doesn't pass the horizontal line test. So that means that this exponential function doesn't have an inverse. In other words, if we let a equal 1, then there's no logarithmic function that can come out of this exponential function. The same is true if you decide to let a equal 0. So bottom line, they're both logs and exponents, the base of it, which I've written as a, must be positive and it can't equal 1. Let's talk more about the general shape of a logarithmic function. Now, it's a bit hard to tell, but none of these graphs here have a horizontal asymptote. This is similar to how it was hard to tell if that exponential function didn't have a vertical asymptote. It was just growing so fast and getting steeper and steeper. In the same way, since logs are the inverses of exponential functions, they start to grow more and more slowly as x increases. f of x equals log base a of x does however have a vertical asymptote and it's the same for all of these graphs. What is it? As we can tell from each of the graphs over here, the vertical asymptote of all functions of this form, is the y-axis. X equals 0. That's why this value, x equals 0, is not part of the domain of this function. Let's put together a bunch of the information we've just been talking about. To do that, I'd like you to complete this sentence properly, or rather, these two sentences. The graph of any function of the form f of x equals log base a of x is continuously either increasing or decreasing, on the either domain or range zero to infinity, and has either domain or range negative infinity to infinity. It has a vertical or horizontal asymptote of what and passes through which point? The graph of any function of the form f of x equals log base a of x is continually increasing on the domain 0 to infinity. And it has a range from negative infinity to infinity. It has a vertical asymptote of x equals 0, the y axis. And it passes through the point 1,0. And finally, let's find the inverse of a couple of logarithmic functions. What is the inverse of f of x equals log base 2 of x? And what is the inverse of f of x equals log base 10 of x? The inverse of f of x equals log base 2 of x is f inverse of x equals 2 to the x. The base of the logarithmic function becomes the base of the exponential one. If we have f of x equals log based 10 of x, then that means that f inverse of x equals 10 to the x. Again, they have the same base. Because the number e is so common in nature, such as with population growth and decay for example. Log base e, as I mentioned earlier, gets a special notation. Instead of writing log base e of x, we would write this. This is called the natural log of x. Thinking about this definition of natural log or ln, what is its inverse? If f of x, equals ln x, or a natural log of x, then f inverse of x, equals, e to the x. Remember, natural log is log base e. So e must be the base of the inverse's exponent. We've already seen a lot of logarithms used in this lesson and we're only going to keep using them more. So I think it's time that you learn how to use mathquill to write logs in a pretty way. Now they should be pretty similar to some other functions you've seen written in mathquill. And of course you'll get plenty of practice using this. Let's say for example that I want to write log base 4 of x. Well, in mathquill here is what I would type in, \ log, then the spacebar, then to get down into this subscript space where the four is written, need to press Shift and then hold it down while you type the Minus sign key. That's what's going to shift you down here. Then you can write a little four just to the bottom right of the log. To get out of the space and get back to where we're going to write the input for the log press the Arrow key to the right. You could also press Tab instead then take your input which in this case is x. Now since you've seen one example I think it would make sense for you to try one yourself. How would you type log base 3 of x plus 4 in mathquill. In the box that appears down here. Try it out. You should be able to tell based on how it looks, whether or not it's going to be right. You could also use the box down here to try out writing some other log expressions, anything you can think of. Hopefully you were able to type this expression into MathQuill properly. But just in case it's giving you trouble, here are the keys you need to press to make it happen. To write log base 3 of x plus 4, we use something pretty similar to what we did up here. You type \ log and then space to type the word log. To move down to type the 3 as a subscript, hold down Shift while you press the button with the minus sign. Then you can enter your 3 and move back up here, press the Right Arrow key. They may need a parenthesis, an opening one. And then we have our input, x plus 4. Of course, MathQuill closes this parenthesis for you on its own. So you don't have to technically type another one, although you can if you want to. As I said before, you'll get a ton of practice typing in things like this in MathQuill in future lessons. Let's say we have f of x equals log based 10 of x and f inverse of x equals 10 to the x. But what happens if we take the composition of these functions? What does f inverse of f of x look like? Now, since these functions are inverses, you should already know what goes in this final box. If you're looking for f inverse of f of x, then in the place of x in the function 10 to the x, we need to plug in log base 10 of x. That's going to give us 10 to the power of log base 10 of x. We know that since these are inverses, that will just equal x. Putting this in the exponent undoes what the log did to x. What is e to the natural log of x equal to? Since e taken to a power and natural log are inverses, e to the natural log of x should just give us x. We can visualize this again like we did earlier. We plug in x to natural log, we end up with natural log of x. If we make the exponent of e natural log of x, then we get x again. This also works if we reverse the cycle. We're going to look at how to solve an equation involving exponents by using logs. And then, we'll apply that knowledge later to the bacteria example we were working with at the beginning of this lesson. But first by thinking about how exponents work, what is x in this equation? We have 10 to the x equals 1 million. This might not seem super difficult but it's always good to know beforehand what we're expecting, when we try out a new method as sort of a sanity check for ourselves. Since 1 million equals 10 to the 6th, we actually have 10 to the x equals 10 to the 6th. That means that x must equal 6. Okay, so now, we know this answer, so we'll know what we're looking for when we use our new method. Great. Now, that we've solved this equation one way. Let's try and solve it using logs. Now, using a log as an operator is a little bit different from the way other operators work. We still have to do the same thing to both sides of the equation, but we're not multiplying by log. What we're doing is we're using each side of the equation as the input to the log function. And because it is a function, when the inputs are the same, their outputs will be the same as well. Now, since on the left side here, we have the function 10 to the x and we want to get x by itself. We want to find the inverse of f of x equals 10 to the x. So what base log do you think we'll need to use? We need to use a log of base 10. That's log base 10 or just log, as it might look in your calculator. So let's actually use our log base 10 as an operator now. We know we have to apply it to both sides, so please fill in each side of the equation we had before, as the input to the log functions. Since we're applying log base 10 to both sides, we'll just have log base 10 of 10 to the x equals log base 10 of 1 million. Now because log is the inverse of the exponentional, what do you think the left-hand side here is equal to? To figure out how to simplify the right-hand side, use the log button on your calculator. On the left hand side we just get x. Since log base 10 is undoing 10 to the x. My calculator gives me 6 for the right hand side. So great, we go exactly what we did before, x equals 6. Now we'll finally return to our bacteria example which you remember was about how many bacteria will still be alive after a time t since a drug was administrated. In order to solve an equation we can only have one variable but right now we have two. B and t. We want the number of bacteria to be 5. So, if we set the number of bacteria equal to 5, what does this equation become? Remember, that means we need to substitute in 5, in place of the variable that represents the number of bacteria. B is the number of bacteria, so we need to substitute in b equals 5. That will give is the equation 5 equals 1,000 times e to the negative 0.5 t. So that it's easier to see what you're doing, let's place e to the negative 0.5t by x for a second. That means our equation is 5 equals 1000x. Now I'd like you to solve for x. What is it equal to? To isolate x, we need to divide both sides of our equation by 1,000. So x equals 5 over 1,000. Now that we have something that x is equal to, let's substitute back in for x. Remember, x equals e to the negative point five t. So, that means that e to the negative point five t equals five over 1,000. Now, the log, which is the inverse of e has a special notation. Do you remember what it is? If you need to, you can check your calculator for a hint about what it might be. The inverse of e is natural log which we write as ln, This is really just log base e. We can use the natural log function, ln, just like we've used other logs before. We substitute each side of the equation into it. Please write what belongs in each of these sets of parentheses and then simplify the left hand side to remove the natural log. The first thing we need to do is just substitute each side of the equation into our log operators or our natural log operators rather. Taking the natural log of each side gives us natural log of e to the negative 0.5t equals natural log of 5 over 1000. We can simplify the left hand side by remembering that natural log and e taken to an exponent are inverse operations. Or inverse functions. That means that all that's left on the left hand side is negative 0.5t. For now, let's just keep the right hand side the same. We are so close to solving this equation. By doing the same thing to each side of the equation, and using a calculator, please solve this equation for t. The first thing that we need to do to isolate t is to divide both sides by negative 0.5. When we do that we get t equals the natural log of 5 over 1000 divided by negative 0.5. Now it's time to bring back my calculator. And here it is. Let's plug this right hand side in to see what number we get. So, first you'll take the natural log, using this ln key of 5 divided by 1000. Then I want you to divide that by negative 0.5. I press equals and, voila. We have 10.5966347331. So rounding off of my calculator's answer. T is about equal to 10.6. So, it's going to take 10.6 hours, or about 10 hours and 36 minutes, for there only to be 5 bacteria left. We can also transform our logarithmic functions in the same way that we have moved other functions around. How about we start with this function f of x equals log base 2 of x. First try graphing the transformed function f of x equals log base 2 of x plus 2. Take a second to do this right now. After you've taken a second to do that, please fill in the words in the sentence. To properly describe the transformation that happened was the shift of vertical or horizontal one, in which direction did it happen and by how many units. To get from function f of x equals log base 2 of x, to the function f of x equals log base 2 of x plus 2. We need to shift the original function up, which is a vertical shift, by 2 units. So here's a different look at the graph of f of x equals log base 2 of x and just above it. The graph of the transformed function, f of x equals log base 2 of x plus 2. And sure enough, we can tell that for every x value the graph up here, the transformed one, is 2 units above the original. To round things out, let's have one last quiz on transforming logarithmic functions. So here's a graph you've seen before, f of x equals log base 4 of x. Starting with this function, what function will we get if we did a reflection in the y axis? And second, what function will we get if we shifted f of x three units to the left? To reflect the function F of X in the Y axis, we need to replace X in the original funtion with negative X. This gives us G of X equals log base 4 of negative X. Note that we need parentheses around negative X to show that both the negative sine and the x have the log operator applied to them. To shift f of x three units to the left, we need to replace x with x plus 3. That gives us h of x equals log base four of x plus 3. Once again, our parentheses are super important here. Think about what would happen if they weren't there. That would mean that the plus 3 was outside of the log part of the function. What would the graph look like then? In the last lesson, we looked at the logs that I had written here, and I asked you to see if you could come up with any links between the numbers. Now that you've had a chance to think about that for awhile, I'd like to give you a chance to document your thoughts. Please write in this box any ideas you have about the connection between the numbers we've input into the logs in the numbers that are output. Also just to remind you, these three numbers right here are rounded. So this is just a chance for you to make a guess and it's not going to be graded. Well one thing you might have noticed, is that the three numbers here, log base 10 of 1, log base 10 of 10, and log base 10 of 100 are all integers for the outputs. The three numbers here, log base 10 of 2, log base 10 of 20, and log base 10 of 200, all end in the same decimal, which I've rounded to 0.30102. So now we've looked at the numbers to the right at the decimal point. But what about the numbers in front of the decimal? Let's just focus on these numbers for a second. Let's say that log based 10 of 2, or 0.30102, is equal to x. I'd like you to rewrite these other two numbers, log base 10 of 20 and log base 10 of 200 as sums involving x. Well, if this number equals x, then this number equals 1 plus x, and this one is 2 plus x. Let's look at these numbers again for a second. Remember that,looking for patterns and making educated guesses about what's going on. And then, figuring out if those guesses are right or wrong is really what math is all about. So, why do we have 1 plus x here? And why do we have 2 plus x here? Let's look at a new log for a second. Log base 10 of 3, and I'm going to tell you right now, this is about equal to 0.47712. Just to make it perfectly clear that this is rounded, I'm going to change this to an about equal sign. Now, using what log base 10 of 3 is about equal to, what do you think we can get for log base 10 of 30 and log base 10 of 300? First, using the idea that you came up with before, I'd like you to make a guess about what each of these is equal to. Then use a calculator to get the actual answer, and round to 5 decimal places. You won't be graded on your guesses so just try it out. Then I'd like you to also consider what log this 10 of 3000 is. And then lastly how about log based 10 of 3 million? Just so you know this is equal to log base 10 of 3 times 10 to the 6 . So make your guesses and then check them with a calculator. So here is what all of our numbers are equal to. I hope your guesses were close. I think looking at this last log down here, log base 10 of 3 million, gives us a clue as to what's happening. Notice that this is equal to 6.47712, and we're taking the log of 3 times 10 to the 6th. So we have a 6 here and we have a 6 right here. Noticing that this decimal here is the same as for log base 10 of 3, it looks like what we have is log base 10 of 3, accounting for the .47712, plus log base 10 of 1 million. Since this is just 10 to the 6th. That means that this is where we get that other 6 from, to make up this whole answer. So what we saw in the answer to the last question, was that log base 10 of 3 million, which is equal to log base 10 of 3 times 10 to the 6th is equal to log base 10 of 3 plus log base 10 of 10 to the 6th. So what we've done here, is split the input to our log into factors. And then we summed the logs of those factors. Over here, I've written out the other answers we came up with in the last question. So what I'd like to know now is, does this process of finding factors of the input of the log and then summing the logs of those factors, work for these other examples? Please answer yes or no. The answer here is yes. We know that log base 10 of 3, is 0.47712. For these three logs, what we have is that decimal, plus the number that is the power of 10, that we need to multiply by 3 as the input. Let's see if this summing of the logs of factors works for other factors, apart from just powers of 10. We've already seen these 2 logs before. I've just written more decimal places out this time. We have log based 10 of 2, and log based 10 of 3. Note that both of these are still rounded numbers. Using these two values. What do you think log base 10 of 6 is? First I would like you to make a guess and then I would like you to find the actual answer with a calculator. Please find both of these to to 5 decimal places. Log base 10 of 6, is about equal to 0.77815. And, just as we suspected, this is what we get if we add log base 10 of 2 to log base 10 of 3. Let's take a look at this identity right here. We have log base a of AB is equal to log base a of A plus log base a of B. Now, is this true in general for any base a? And indeed, it is. The formal name of this, is the product property. And since we know this is a property of logs in general, logs of any base, we know that it is true for the natural logarithm as well. Put simply, the log of a product is the sum of the logs of the numbers that were multiplied to make that product. Let's use this rule, but in reverse to find log base 10 of 2 plus log base 10 of 5. First, simplify this into the log of one number, and then tell me what that's equal to. Please try this without a calculator first, but definitely feel free to check it to make sure it, that it works with your calculator. If we want to add log base 10 of 2, and log base 10 of 5. Then we're going to get log base 10 of 10. Since we need to multiply 2 and 5, just like the product property says. However, we know that log base 10 of 10 is just equal to 1. Pretty cool, huh? 1 is definitely a lot simpler than all of this. Let's look at the inverse of multiplication, division. What if we want to represent the log of a quotient? We know that division is just repeated subtraction, so using that knowledge, how do you think we might represent natural log of 3 over 7? Remember, ln is just the same as log base e, so in this slot, please make a prediction of how you would rewrite ln of 3 over 7 in terms of natural logs. Think back to the product property, and how this might be different for division instead of multiplication. Did you predict ln of 3 minus ln of 7? If so, you were right. Let's check out the values of each of these and see what we get. First, let's find natural log of 3 over 7. So we press the ln button on the calculator, and then 3 divided by 7. Interesting. We get negative 0.8472, and so on and so forth. Let's write that down. So, now we've got one side of our equation into number form. Let's check out the other side now on the calculator. Okay, so we want ln of 3 minus ln of 7. I've got it plugged in right, so let's press equals. And sure enough, we get exactly the same decimals we have over here. So, our calculator has helped us confirm this prediction. ln of 3 over 7 is equal to ln of 3 minus ln of 7. So we're in great shape right now. We just came up with another strategy to help us solve some problems using logarithms. As you might have guessed, this is called the quotient property, and yes. If it works for natural logs, then it also works for logs of any other base. The quotient property says that if we have log base a of A over B. Then that's equal to log base a of A minus log base a of B. And again, this works for any base a that we can plug in. So let's use the quotient property, but in reverse to find this. Log base 2 of 24 minus log base 2 of 3. First, write this as a single log expression, log base 2 of some number. And then tell me what that's equal to, just as a number. Log base 2 of 24 minus log base 2 of 3 should, according to the quotient property, equal log base 2 of 24 over 3. And 24 over 3 is just 8, so this is log base 2 of 8. However, we can rewrite 8 as 2 to the 3rd power, and we know that log base 2 of 2 to the 3rd is just 3, 3 is the exponent we need to take a 2 to, to get 8. There we go, once again the quotient property has seriously helped us simplify a log expression. Instead of log base 2 of 24, minus log base 2 of 3, we just have the number 3. We saw before that log base 10 of 2 times 3 is equal to log base 10 of 2, plus log base 10 of 3. So that means that if we have log base 10 of 5 times 5 then, according to the product property, this should equal log base 10 of 5, plus log base 10 of 5. However, we're just adding 2 log based 10 of 5s together. And we can see that this is equal to 2 times log base 10 of 5, or 2 log base 10 of 5. Considering what we've just written, how do you think you could rewrite log base 10 of 5 times 5 times 5? Please follow this same pattern that we did up here. So what belongs in this slot should be similar to what's in this form. And this answer should be in the same form as this one. One thing we can do to simplify this expression, is to start out by inserting one new set of parentheses around this first 5 times 5. That way, just like we've done before, we're multiplying two things together and we know how to use the product rule in a situation like this. This is just going to be equal to log base 10 of 5 times 5 plus log base 10 of 5. Conveniently, we've already found this. That's what we got up here. Log base 10 of 5 times 5 is just log base 10 of 5 plus log base 10 of 5. And then of course, we have to keep this last, log base 10 of 5 added on to the end as well. Now we have three log base 10 of 5s added together. And this is just equal to 3 times log base 10 of 5, or 3 log base 10 of 5. We just saw that log base 10 of 5 times 5 is equal to 2 log base 10 of 5. And log base 10 of 5 times 5 times 5 is equal to 3 log base 10 of 5. However, there's a way we could rewrite the inputs to these two logs. This first one is just equal to log base 10 of 5 squared. And this one is equal to log base 10 of 5 to the 3rd, or 5 cubed. So what if instead we had log base 10 of 5 to the n. How could you rewrite this without using any exponents? Following the pattern we see up here, and should be the coefficient in front of log base 10 of 5. So we should have n log base 10 of 5. This property that we've been using is called the power property, and as we can see, it allows us to write the log without the exponent of the input. Since ln is just another notation for log base e, the power property also works for the natural logarithm. So, let's try another problem. How should we write ln of x to the fourth without any exponents? According the power property, this should just equal 4lnx or 4 times the natural log of x. Here are the three properties again that we've been discussing, the Product Property, the Quotient Property, and the Power Property. Many logarithmic expressions can be rewritten or expanded or condensed using these properties. First, let's think about what it means to expand a logarithmic expression. That basically means that we're going to break down something that looks complicated into smaller pieces. This logarithmic equation is a great one to work with for doing this. We have log base 3 of 6x squared y cubed. Let's break it down, we can expand this to log base 3 of 6 plus log base 3 of x squared plus log base 3 of y cubed. Which property that you've learned about allowed us to do this expansion? Was it the product property, the log of the product is equal to the sum of the logs? Was it the quotient property, the log of the quotient is equal to the difference of logs? Or was it the power property, the log of something raised to a power is equal to the power times just the log? The answer is the product property. 6x squared y cubed is 6 times x squared times y cubed. So, we can sum the logs of each of these factors. You can use the power property to rewrite each of these terms. Log base 3 of x squared, according to the power property, should be 2 times log base 3 of x. In the same way log base 3 of y cubed can be written 3 times log base 3 of y. You've had some practice expanding logarithmic expressions, so now let's try one that has a natural log. Here I have ln of the square root of 4x minus 6 over 3. Now, eventually, we can try expanding this using the quotient property, but first, all I'd like us to do, is just rewrite the numerator here using an exponent instead of the radical sign. Remember that when we take the square root of a number, we're actually raising that number to the 1 half power. So we have natural log of 4x minus 6 to the 1 half over 3. Now let's use the quotient property to expand this expression further. We can rewrite this as natural log of 4x minus 6 to the 1 half, minus the natural log of 3. We have just one more step to fully expand this expression. The only change I want us to make, is that I'd like us to get rid of this exponent here. Think about what rule you can apply to make this go away, and then use it to rewrite the expression. We're not going to change the last term at all, so I'll just write it for you already. What should the first term become? We can rewrite this first term, natural log of 4x minus 6 to the 1 half, using the power property. That tells us that this is equal to 1 half times the natural log of 4x minus 6. That means having started off with the natural log of the square root of 4x minus 6 over 3, we've expanded this to equal 1 half ln of 4x minus 6, minus ln of 3. Awesome! We have been expanding expressions, so now let's condense them. This is effectively the reverse of expanding. How about we play around with this expression? 3 natural log of x plus 4 minus the natural log of 5. Now a common mistake in trying to condense this, would be to start off using the quotient property, but we're not ready for that just yet. To do that we would need both terms to just be the log of something, and not have a coefficient in front. But how do we get rid of this coefficient, please rewrite this first term so that the coefficient is no longer there. We can use the power property to transform the first term we have here, 3 ln of (x+4) to become ln of (x+4) cubed. Note that the cube here applies to the entire input of the log. It goes round the whole expression (x+4). Now it's time to finish off our combining of expressions. Please use the quotient property to combine the two natural logs that we have here. What do we end up with? Since we're subtracting two logs right here, and they have the same base, the quotient property tells us we can combine them into one log expression, by dividing them as the input of one log. So having started out with 3 natural log of (x+4) minus the natural log of 5 we've ended up with this simpler, more compact thing-- natural log of (x+4) cubed, divided by 5. You're doing a great job with this so let's just keep going. Here's another expression for us to play with. 3 log of x plus 2 log of y minus one half log of z Now I'd like you to use all three log properties that we've learned to condense this expression as much as you can. In order to condense this expression the first thing I'm going to do is condense within each term. To do that I need to use the power property so that we can get rid of these coefficients. Doing that gives us- log of x cubed plus log of y squared minus log of z to the one half. However I also know that z to the one half is just the square root of z. So I think I prefer to write it that way. Now we've gotten rid of our coefficients we're finally allowed to use our product and quotient properties. From the product property we know that log of x cubed plus log of y squared is equal to log of x cubed y squared. Since we're subtracting log of the square root of z from that, I can use the quotient property as well. The numerator of our fraction is going to be the input of the first log, and the denominator is going to be the input of the log we're subtracting. So that means that in the end we've condensed our original expression- 3 log of x plus 2 log of y minus one half log of z to be just this little compact thing right here- log of x cubed y squared over the square root of z. Awesome! Note that in all the examples we've done so far, we've always used the same base for our logs. The 3 properties that you've learned about. The product property, the quotient property, and the power property. Only apply when the base of the logs that are being combined is the same. This is a super important concept. And we really need to make sure to keep it in mind. That we don't do anything that's illegal. Thinking about this important concept, which of these pairs of logs down here can we combine using the product property? Of the four pairs of logs down here, there are only two sets that we can combine. Log base e of 4 plus ln of 5, and log base 10 of 5 plus log base 10 of 6. The reason that both of these can be combined in the product property is because the bases are the same for the two logs we're trying to add. Here, we have log base e and natural log. But we know that ln is actually shorthand for log base e. So both of these actually have the same base and we can combine them. The same is true for the logs down here. Log base 10 of 5 and log base 10 of 6, have the same base. Since remember, that's the number that goes down here as the subscript of log. The two remaining choices can't be combined because the bases of the logs we're trying to add are different. Here we have log base 10 and natural log, which, again, has a base of e. 10 and e are not the same number. So, we can't combine these. The same concept applies here. We have a base of 2 and a base of 10, so we can't use the product property. We know that we can not use the product property to combine either of these pairs of logs, since remember they have different basis. However, let's try grabbing our calculator and seeing if we can add them. To add log base 10 of 4 plus natural log of 5. I start out by pressing the log button, since I know this has an implicit invisible ten down here as a base. You want base 10 of 4 plus natural log, so the ln button of 5. And there we go, we have our number. Let's write it down. So, according to our calculator, log base 10 of 4 plus natural log of 5 is about equal to 2.211 so on and so forth. Let's try our second combination here. So, I've got my calculator all ready, and I just need to enter log base 2 of 5. But wait, there's no log base 2 button. What am I going to do? Well, I could use trial and error. But that would be really, really hard. There must be something easier we can do. Luckily there is. There's something called changing bases that we can do. What this means is that we'll convert log base 2 of 5 to something with a different base that we can evaluate using a calculator. So this is a formula we can use to change a log from being base a to base b. We have log base a of x equals log base b of x over log base b of a. This probably feels a little bit confusing right now and kind of abstract. So, let's try using it to see how it really works. Let's do this first off with something we know the answer, just to make sure that our method makes sense. I like us to change log base 2 of 8 to something in base 10. First things first though, what is log base 2 of 8 equal to? Log base 2 of 8 equals 3. Since remember 8 is equal to 2 to the third power. Now let's actually actually use our new formula. Please write log base 2 of 8 in terms of logs of base 10. If we look at our formula, and match up the different letters here to the different numbers over here, we have that a equals 2, the first base here. X the input of the first log is equal 8, and b, the new base we're trying to change to is equal 10. Since we want log base b of x over log base b of a, we need to write that log base 2 of 8 is equal to log base 10 of 8 over log base 10 of 2. Now that we've written log base 2 of 8, as the ratio of, things with log base 10, we can actually use our calculator to evaluate this expression. So please do that, and tell me what number you get. This is equal to 3. Lets check it out on the calculator just to be sure. So here's my calculator, and I plug in log of 8, which means of course log base 10 of 8 divided by log base 10 of 2. And, sure enough that equals 3. This is what we got before, so our change of base formula must work. Awesome. Let's try another problem where we need to you use our change of base formula. This time, I'd like you to switch log base 5 of 9 to something in log base 10. Then, evaluate that using a calculator, to tell me what number this is equal to. Here's our change of base formula again. And if we use that, we can convert log base 5 of 9 to equal log base 10 of 9, over log base 10 of 5. This is calculator appropriate, so let's plug it in. Log base 10 of 9 divided by log base 10 of 5 is equal to this decimal. This is great. Now we know how to find a number that pretty much any log expression with numbers is equal to. No our calculator has two log buttons. It has the plain log, which means log base 10, and it has an LN button for a natural log button, base E. That means that converting to natural log is also really useful to us, if we're going to change bases. Converting to base E is just as useful as converting to base 10, since we can also plug this in on our calculator. So converting from base five to base e, or in other words, converting to natural logs, what numbers belong in these spots right here. And when you use a calculator, what number does this expression evaluate to? Note that all I'm changing from this step to this step is I'm rewriting log base e as ln. Log base 5 of 9 is equal to log base e of 9 over log base e of 5. Or in other words ln of 9 over ln of 5. Now, it's time to bring out our calculator. So we plug in ln of 9 divided by ln of 5. And here we go, we get the same decimal that we did before. 1.36521238897 and continuing. This is, of course, rounded. Great. The important thing is that this number is equal to what we had when we converted to base 10 instead base e. That means that regardless of what we set b our new base equal to, the original expression log base 5 of 9 has this value. Awesome. We haven't talked about graphs at all, so let's think about them for a minute. How do you think graphs of logarithmeic functions of different bases relate to one another? Well, here's just an example, but this line right here shows the graph of Y equals log base 10 of X. And this one shows Y equals log base 2 of X. Since we've been talking about change of base so much. How about we try to convert log base two of X to an expression with log base 10? How would you rewrite this with this change of base? Using our change of base formula, log base 2 of x is equal to log base 10 of x over log base 10 of 2. Right now, we have that log base 2 of x is equal to log base 10 of x over log base 10 of 2. But there's another way that we can rewrite this that I think could help us out. Instead, we could write 1 over log base 10 of 2 times log base 10 of x. Now, what can we say about the value of 1 over log base 10 of 2? Does it change, or is it constant? The value of 1 over log base 10 of 2 is constant, and according to our calculator it's about equal to 3.3. Once again lets look at our two graphs. This one shows y equals log base 10 of x. And this one shows y equals log base 2 of x. Which we just saw is about equal to 3.3 times log base 10 of x. The only difference between these functions now is just the coefficient out in front of log base 10 of x here. So what does multiplying a function by a positive constant do to its graph? Does it stretch or shrink it in the y-direction? Does it move it in some direction, either horizontally or vertically? Does it reflect the graph in the x or y axis? Or does it find the graph's inverse? The first choice is correct. Multiplying a function by some positive constant stretches or shrinks the graph in the Y direction, which is vertically here. Since 3.3 is greater than one we have a stretch in this case. We can also see that in our graph. The distance from the X axis up to the curve for Y equals log base ten of X. Is just a fraction of the distance from the x axis up to our second curve. 3.3 times log base 10 of x. This curve is identical to this one, just stretched upward. It's taller, interestingly enough then even the change of base of a log is a transformation. That is really cool. You've learned a lot of rules with some details involved in them in this lesson. So I think it would be good if we just did a check of your understanding of these properties. Here are three equations, and by checking the values of the left and right hand side of each of them. I'd like you to decide which ones are correct. Let's look at what each side of each of these equations simplifies to, to figure out which equations are true. How about we start with this equation up here. And let's go with the left hand side first. Inside the parentheses here, we have 100 times 1000 which is 100,000, or 10 to the 5th power That means that this side of the equation is equal to log base 10 of 10 to the 5th, and we know that that is just equal to 5. Great. Now, on the other side we have log base 10 of 100 plus log base 10 of 1000. So, this is the same as log base 10 of 10 squared. Plus log based ten of ten cubed. That's just two plus three, or five. So, this equation does check out. This side is equal to this side, which means it is a true statement. Awesome. Let's go for our second one. We know that log based ten of 100 is 2 and we know that log based ten of 1,000 is three. So that means that this side is equal to 2 times 3 or 6. Now over here, we're adding those two numbers we just multiplied. Log base 10 of 100, plus log base10 of 1000, as we saw on this side, is just equal to 2 plus 3, or 5. 6 is not equal to 5, so this is not a true statement. And our third equation, finally. On the left hand side we have log based 10 of 1,100. Let's see using our calculator, what that equals. Log of 1,100 equals 3.04139 and so on. Let's write that down, I'll just write some of the numbers, we know that it's rounded on the calculator anyway. On to the right hand side. Now notice that this expression is exactly the same as the one we already evaluated. On the left-hand side of the previous equation. So we know that this, log base 10 of 100 times log base 10 of 1,000, equals 6. Now, 3.04 anything is not equal to six, so this equation is not true either. The first equation we had is the only example of the product property being used properly. The two numbers that we multiplied and then plugged in as the input of our first log expression, each act as the inputs for these separate logs over here that are then added together. We have to be super careful about which numbers are multiplying and which quantities we're adding when we use the product property. Great job. Here's another problem similar to the last one. Just to keep checking your understanding of these log properties. Once again, figure out the value of the expression on either side of each equation. And then use that information to figure out which of these equations is true. Lets evaluate each side of each equation, starting with this one up here. Log base 10 of 100 is 2, and log base 10 of 1000 is 3. So, we have 2 over 3 for this side. On the right-hand side we have log base 10 of 100 again, or 2, and then, minus 3 for log base 10 of 1000, this equals negative 1. Unfortunately for this equation, two thirds is not equal to negative 1, so this is not a true statement, we need to put a not equals sign here. Let's move over here to this equation. The left-hand side right now is log base 10 of 100 over 1000. So lets look at whats inside the parentheses and simplify that. 100 over 1000 is 1 over 10 and 1 over 10 is the same as 10 to the negative 1. Log base 10 of 10 to the negative 1 is just negative 1. Great. What about the right-hand side? Well this is the same as what we had over here. And we got negative 1 for that. Sure enough negative 1 is equal to negative 1. So, this equation is true. Awesome. Now what about this last one here? Well, once again lets start with what's inside the parentheses here. We have log base 10 of 100 minus 1000. Which is the same as log base 10 of negative 900. Hm, I'm not sure what this is so how about I pull out the calculator and we'll see what this equals. So we have log base 10 of negative 900, and look at that we get an error. I wonder why that is? Well actually, we know why. We're trying to take the log of a negative number, and you learned before that, that is not allowed. This is just not equal to a real number. On the right-hand side, we have what we had over here, two thirds. Well, two thirds is a real number, so that means this equation is not true. This second one, log base 10 of 100 over 1000, is equal to log base 10 of 100, minus log base 10 of 1000. Is the only example of the quotient rule being used properly of these three equations. This is a great check to show that the quotient property actually works. And I hope it's also pointed out some easy ways that you might accidently make a mistake when you're trying to use it. And finally one more question for you. Once again, which of these equations is correct? Figure this out by checking the value of the left hand side and the right hand side for each one of them. Let's start with our first equation over here. If log based 10 of 100 all taken to the third power, equals 3 times log base 10 of 100. So let's see what each side is equal to. Well first you need to figure out what log base 10 of 100 is. And it's two, since 100 is 10 squared. That means on the left-hand side, we have 2 cubed, or 8. And on the right-hand side, we have 3 times 2, or 6. 8 is definitely not equal to 8, so this equation is not true. Let's move on to our second equation. Log base 10 of 100 cubed is equal to 3 times log base 10 of 100. On the left hand side we can rewrite 100 as 10 squared and that means we have log based 10 of 10 squared taken to the 3rd power. We know from our rules of exponents that this is just log bas 10 of 10 to the 6th. We need to multiply the 2 and the 3, and that just simplifies to 6. Awesome. What about the right-hand side? Well once again we make use of the fact that log base 10 of 100 is just 2, 3 times 2 is just 6. So this equation is true. Awesome. And now for this last one over here. Log base 10 of 100 cubed, equals 3 times log base 10 of 100. The only difference between this equation and this one is the use of parentheses here around the 100 cubed. However in this case the parentheses don't actually change the way we're evaluating the expression. The first thing we did over here was find what 100 cubed was equal to and that was 10 to the 6th. So that means that this is going to be equal to what we got here, just 6. Once again the right-hand side is the same as it's been the other 2 times and we know that we got 6 before. So look at that, this time we have 2 true equations. Wonderful. Both of these show proper uses of the product rule. And in both cases the exponent is only applying to the input of the log expression. It doesn't go around the entire log expression, which is why this first one was not correct. In the last few lessons, you've learned a lot of new information about exponential and logarithmic functions. You've seen their graphs. You've learned about properties that apply to them, and you've also learned how to evaluate and manipulate them. In the coming videos, we're going to explore various strategies to solve a variety of exponential and logarithmic equations. A few lessons ago, we touched on an application problem where we considered the amount of bacteria which remained alive after a patient was medicated. This lesson is going to give you the tools you need to solve other application problems as well. Maybe you're earning interest on a certain amount of money that you've put in a savings account. Then we'd have an equation like this. 12,500 equals 10,000 times 1.03 to the t. Or perhaps you've just bought a loaf of bread, but you're about to go on vacation. We could use an equation like this to figure out how much mold would grow on the bread after a certain amount of time. Or, what if you've just been through an earthquake, and you want to figure out how intense the quake was? Well, you could use equations like these two to talk about that. This one characterizes the earthquake that happened in Japan in 2011. And this one talks about the worst earthquake that ever happened to California, which was in 1857. These scenarios are all going to be super interesting to look at, but I think we should wait a bit before we get to them. For now though, let's stick with something pretty simple. You've been learning with exponents a lot lately, so I think this equation is a good choice. We have 4 to the x equals 64. What does x equal then? Now, some of you might be able to do this in your head or if that seems tricky you can try guessing and checking using a calculator. We can rewrite 64 as 4 to the third power, which means that we have 4 to the x equals 4 to the 3. That means that x equals 3. Solving this equation, might have felt really simple to you but there's actually something really important going on here. This is highlighting a certain property that exponents have. If we have an equation like this one, a to the x equals a to the y, then we know right away that x must equal y. This property also works the other way around. If we know that x equals y, then we also know that a to the x is equal to a to the y. Now that we've talked about that concept, here's a slightly harder problem to try. This time we have 4 to the x minus 1 power equals 64. What is x now? Once again, let's rewrite 64 as 4 cubed. We know that our exponents need to equal each other, so we have x minus 1 equals 3. Adding 1 to both sides gives us a final answer of x equals 4. This is all well and good if our numbers work out nicely. But what if we don't have numbers that are as pretty as these? That work this easily together. Let's stick with 4 to the x. But how about on the right hand side of the equation, we put something different, like 121. Now, this problem is not as simple as the last 2 .We can't easily make 121 into a power of 4. So I think we need to go back to our knowledge of properties. In particular, properties of exponents and logs. We have some one-to-one properties. There's this one that we just talked about. If we know that A to the x equals A to the y, then we also know that x equals y. And similarly, we have this second one. If we know that log base A of x is equal to log base A o fy, then we also know that x equals y. We also have some inverse properties. Properties that demonstrate that exponential and logarithmic functions are each other's inverses. The first one is that a to the power of log base a of x is equal to x. Here's the first one. a to the power of log base a of x equals x. And the second one says that log base a of a to the x is equal to x. This is just showing that logs and exponents undo one another. Now, keeping these in mind, let's go back to that equation we were working with. And here it is again. 4 to the x equals 121. Now as we did in earlier lessons, I think we should take the log of both sides, after all we want to extract the x from the exponent here. One of those two inverse properties was this one, that if we have something like a to the x, just as we do here, if we take log base a of that we'll just end up with x on this side of the equation. That sounds pretty good to me. So thinking about the equation that we have, what base should the log that we apply to both sides be? In other words, what should a here equal? We should use a log of base 4 here. Note that in this property right here, the base of the log is equal to the base of the exponent. Since our base on the left hand is 4, we want to use log base 4. So, let's use it now that we've figured out what we want to do. Please take the log base 4 of both sides and then simplify the left-hand side using the inverse property. The first step is to take the log base 4 of both sides. So we have log base 4 of 4 to the x equals log base 4 of 121. Then, we just simplify over here. Using our inverse property we talked about, log base 4 of 4 to the x is just x. Since this log undoes this exponent. That leaves us with x equals log base 4 of 121. So we're in great shape. We have an expression for x. But are we really done yet? I don't think so. We know that what we have over here is actually just equal to a number, but what number is it? Since we can't rewrite 121 off the top of our heads, as a power of 4, we going to need to do a little bit of work here. What property of logs do you think we need to use to find out the value of log base 4 of 121? Should we use the product property, the quotient property, the power property, or the change of base property? Think about what's keeping us right now from evaluating this side of our equation. We need to use the change of base property. All of these other properties would leave us with logs of base 4. So they're not going to enable us to use our calculator to come up with an answer. Using the change of base formula and picking either log base 10 or natural log, we get a value for log based 4 of 121. What does that mean that x equal? Since most calculators, including the one I'm going to use, have buttons for log base ten and natural log, I've shown you two ways that you can could pretty easily figure out how to evaluate log base four of 121. If we want to convert it to something involving log base ten, it would become log base 10 of 121 over log base 10 of 4. If instead, you wanted to use natural log, it would become natural log of 121 over natural log of 4. Plugging this into a calculator gives us the same thing for each one. Rounding, we get about 3.459 for both. That means that x is about equal to 3.459. Awesome. We solved an exponential equation. Do you remember solving linear equations? Well, we're going to use some of the same techniques we learned all those lessons ago to change equations like this one, so that we can use our techniques using logs to find out what x is. It's pretty common in mathematics to try to change a problem to be in a form of what we've seen before. So here, we have the equation e to the x minus 3 equals 43. For right now, let's just think of e to the x as our variable. Now if we do the same thing to both sides of our equation, what is e to the x equal to? In order to get e to the x by itself, we need to add 3 to both sides of the equation. On the right-hand side, that's going to give us 46. So now our equation looks just like the ones we were solving earlier. There's an exponent term only on one side and a constant on the other side. It makes sense then to use the same technique we did before. Taking the log of both sides to get x by itself. Now, think about what base log we need to use to get x by itself. And then, think about if that log is something you can plug into a calculator. Once you do get an answer for x, please round to three decimal places. We know from our identity properties that we want to use a log of the same base as we see for this exponent here. A log of base e is the natural log. Taking the natural log of both sides gives us ln of e to the x equals ln of 46. Now, conveniently, ln is the button on the calculator. So let's plug this in and see what number we get. Any natural log of 46. And here is our long number. Remember, even this decimal is rounded. But we're only going to look at the first three decimal places. You know, the left hand side of our equation is just going to equal x and that decimal we got rounds to 3.829. This should really be an approximately equal to sign. Awesome. We solved a more complicated exponential equation. Here's another example where we can use out techniques from solving linear equations. Again, I'd like you to start out by thinking of e to the x as our variable. Once you get it by itself on one side of the equation, you can use logs to solve for x. Once you find an answer for x, please round to two decimal places. Let's think first how to get e to the x by itself. Before we do anything else, we need to subtract 23 from both sides. That leaves us with 3e to the x equals 323. To get e to the x alone, all we need to do now is to divide both sides by 3. Now, I could come up with a decimal for the right-hand side here, but I don't think it's going to be very pretty. So, I'm just going to leave this as an improper fraction for now. So we have e to the x equals 323 over 3. Now, I want to get x by itself, and what do I need to do? Well, I need to take the log of both sides and the base of that log needs to be the same as the base we have here, which is e. So I have ln of e to the x equals ln of 323 over 3. We know that the left-hand side will reduce just to x. That's why we picked a log of this base after all. To figure out what the right-hand side evaluates to, we have to use our calculator. Okay, so natural log of 323 divided by 3. Double check that we've add the correct thing here and that looks right to me. That equals 4.679 and so on. We said we wanted our answer to just two decimal places, so that should be 4.68. Here's another equation for you to solve. And the ones we've been working with have definitely gotten gradually more complex, so this one is another step up. We have 3 times the quantity times 2 to 3t minus 2, plus 6 equals 15. Now you could approach this equation in the exact the same way as when we did just before this. You'll just have a few more steps at the end to reach the solution. Now, you might want to take a couple seconds right now and pause the video to try solving all the way to t on your own. If you feel like that might be a little bit much, let's go through it in a slightly more step-by-step manner. Now of course, there are many different ways to solve this problem, and I'm just going to show one of them. First, we're going to treat 2 to the 3t minus 2 as our variable. So, we write the equation isolating 2 to the 3t minus 2 on this side. If 2 to the 3t minus 2 seems like something sort of complicated to work with, and sort of weird to think about as a variable, then you can substitute in another letter, like u for instance, in place of this whole thing. Then just solve for u. First, we need to subtract 6 from both sides. Then, to get 2 to the 3t minus 2 by itself, we need to divide both sides by 3. That leaves us with 2 to the 3t minus 2 equals 3. Since we have a base of 2 over here for our exponent, we need to use a log of base 2, since that's the inverse. Now we've done this before, so I'm just going to write it out for you. That gives us log base 2 of 2 to the 3t minus 2 equals log base 2 of 3. For now, I'd like us to leave the right-hand side as is. But what happens to the left-hand side if we simplify it? What belongs in this space? Our log base 2 and 2 to a power cancel one another out. So all we're left with is what's in the exponent right here. That means the left-hands side should be 3t minus 2. We've done a ton of work so far and we're super close to getting t by itself. So here's the equation we have right now. 3t minus 2 equals log base 2 of 3. I'd like you to solve this equation for t coming up with just a number that it's equal to. Please round the solution that you get to three decimal places. Now just a hint, in order to use your calculator to evaluate this you're going to need to change bases. So keep that in mind as you move forward. To get t by itself we first need to add 2 to both sides. Then we just need to divide both sides by 3. So now we have t equals 1 third times log base 2 of 3 plus 2. Well what do we do with this? We know that we want to find out what number this is equal to. But our calculator doesn't have a button for log base two. That means that we need to convert this log base two of three into something that's either a natural log or a log base 10. I'm feeling in a natural log mood. So let's do that. Know that log base two of three will be equal to the natural log of three. Over the natural log of 2. So, let's substitute this into this spot. OK, so now we have t equals 1 third times the natural log of 3 over the natural log of 2, plus 2. This is calculator appropriate, so let's pull out the calculator. I am just going to enter all of this in. I have 1 third times the natural log of 3 divided by the natural log of 2. Plus 2. And here's what that equals. T is about equal to 1.195. Awesome, we went through a ton of steps to get to our answer, but we did arrive there eventually. And along the way you got to practice a ton of different techniques that you've learned throughout the entire course. Awesome job. For the past few questions, we've looked at equations that we can treat as linear equations, up to a certain point, of course. But we spent a bunch of time in this course, also talking about quadratic equations. And in fact, we're going to need to use those techniques as well for certain equations that use exponents. Let's look at example of one of those right now. Here we have e to the 2x minus 5e to the x plus 6 equals 0. Now, it might not look like it right away, but this is actually a quadratic equation in e to the x. To see this more clearly, let's make a little substitution. Let's let u equal e to the x. How then, would you rewrite the first 2 terms of our equation in terms of u? Please fill in these pink spots with the proper numbers, variables, or expressions. We know that e to the 2x is the same as e to the x squared. And since we're saying that u is equal to e to the x. This is just equal to u squared. For our second one, 5e to the x. That's just equal to 5u. Using these substitutions you just came up with, please rewrite our equation here in terms of U. Then, find two solutions for U. You can use factoring to do this. Substituting in e to the 2 x equals e squared, and 5 e to the x equals 5 u. We end up with u squared minus 5 u plus 6 equals 0. Now it's time to factor. This is equivalent to u minus 3 times u minus 2 equals 0. Then it's super easy to solve for u. We have u minus 3 equals 0 and u minus 2 equals 0. That gives us u equals 3 or u equals 2 as our solutions. You might be thinking, great we solved our equation. But remember, we've only solved for u so far. What we really want to solve for is our original variable, x. Since u was actually equal to e to the x, what we really have here is e to the x equals 3 and e to the x equals 2. However, you know how to solve each of these equations. So, please solve for x and round each of your answers to three decimal places. All I need to do to solve for x is take the natural log of each side of each equation. For e to the x equals 3, that gives us x equals ln 3, which is about equal to 1.099. For e to the x equals 2, we end up with x equals ln of 2, which is about to 0.693. Now let's remember what these mean. These are both zeros of the function f of x equals e to the 2x minus 5e to the x plus 6. Now in the practice section, you'll be able to see how this works a little bit more clearly. To finish off the section on exponent methods. Lets look at an interest problem. Lets say that Grant puts $1000 in an account that receives 3% interest per year compounded yearly. How long is it going to take for him to have $1250 in the account? Well, let's remember that equation that we used for calculating compound interest before. It was A equals P times 1 plus r over n to the nt. Here A is equal to the money in the account. P is equal to the principal, the amount initially invested. R is the interest rate per year written as a decimal. N is the number of times interest is compounded each year. And t is equal to the number of years that have passed. So, what we really need to come up with right now is an equation for A after t years, of course, making it fit this situation. Please write that in here. Plugging in the numbers from our problem, we know that P is equal to 1000, and R is equal to .03 N is equal to 1, which makes things pretty simple. Then into our equation for A is A equals 1000 times 1 plus 0.03 to the t. We are told that the amount Grant wants in account eventually is $1250. So, lets substitute this in, in the place of A. That makes our equation 1250 equals 1000 times 1 plus 0.03 to the t. So now we have an equation with just one variable, t. And conveniently, that's what we wanted to solve for anyway. So please solve for t using this equation. Once you have a number that t is equal to, please round up to the nearest integer or to the nearest year, since interest is paid into the account yearly. One more little hint for you. The base of a log doesn't have to be an integer. Think about that as you go through the problem. To get t by itself you first want to divide both sides of the equation by 1000. On the left-hand side that leaves us with 1.25 and simplifying what we have in the parenthesis here. We have 1.03 to the t on the right-hand side. Now all we have over here term of an exponent. So we just need to take some sort of log of both sides to get t down out of the exponent, and by itself. Now as we've seen before the log we need to use should have the same base as this base right here, 1.03. So, interestingly enough, using log of base 1.03 for both sides. Well, that's certainly different from anything we've seen, but it works in the same way as a log with the base of any other number. On the right-hand side here, we just get t. And on the left-hand side we have this log expression that we would of course like to evaluate. Now I usually prefer having t on the left-hand side, so I'm just going to switch it over there now. That just makes things easier for me to see. Now since we don't have a log based 1.03 button on the calculator, we're going to need to use change of base. How about this time we use log of base 10. That means we're going to have, log base 10 of 1.25 divided by log base 10 of 1.03. Let's plug it in and see what that equals. So here's our famous calculator. Log of 1.25 divided by log of 1.03. What does that equal? Let's find out. 7.54914 and so on. Remember though, since Grant's interest gets compounded only once a year, we need to round this up to 8, the next highest integer. So, that is our answer. After 8, years Grant will have over $1250 in the account. So far in this lesson, we've been working with equations involving exponents. So now let's look at the other side of the coin, equations involving Logs. Have you ever had a hearing test? Or maybe you felt an earthquake or seen a hurricane. All of these things are measured using logs. At the end of the section, we use the properties that you've learned about logs and the techniques that we're going to discuss. To compare the intensity of two different earthquakes. In the equations we're going to look at, the variable, which is oftentimes going to be x, will be part of the input to the log function. That means that to access is, we're going to need to use the inverse of whatever log function we have, since that will undo what the log has done to the x. So, what does that actually mean? Well, before, we were using each side of our equation, as the input to a log function, because we had exponents. But now, we're going to use each side as the input to the exponential function. So let's actually do some work with this equation. Ln of x equals 10. What base do you think will be best to use for our exponent, since of course, we want the inverse of the natural log? We're going to want our base to be e, since natural log is a log of base e. Use each side of the equation now as the exponent of e. And then simplify the left-hand side. What equation does that leave us with? Remember that inverse property we talked about before. A, taken to the power of log base a of x is just equal to x. If we use each side as the input to an exponential function with e as the base. Then we have e to the lnx equals e to the 10. The left hand side, just simplifies to x, because of that inverse property that we talked about. And the right hand side, is just equal to e to the 10 still, since we haven't evaluated this yet. We know that x is equal to e to the 10, but what number is that equal to? Use a calculator to evaluate this and round to the nearest integer. Here's our calculator and all we need to do is plug in e to the power of 10. So remember, luckily we have a button for the number e, it is right here. That'll take us to the power, remember you press the button x to the y and our exponent is 10. So now we enter that. Great. E to the 10 equals wow a big number. 22026 and some decimal. So round it to the nearest integer, that's 22026. Awesome. Let's take a look at another logarithmic equation. Here we have log base 2 of 2x plus 3 equals 4. Now, how do we go about solving this? Well lets do it in a couple of steps. First things first, why don't you just try to get 2x plus 3 by itself. What belongs over here? To make this input to our log by itself, what we need to do is take the inverse of log base two. That means we need to use an exponential function where two is the base. So we have 2 to the log base 2 of 2 x plus 3 equals 2 to the 4. Since the log base 2 is undone by this, all we have left on the left hand side is 2x plus 3 and on the right hand side, 2 to the 4 or 16. Now all we have is a linear equation, awesome. Please solve for X. Subtracting three from both sides and then dividing by two gives us X equals 13 halves or six and a half. Now, something to notice about this equation we were just working with. Is that one thing that was convenient about it was that we only had a log on one side of the equation. Because of that, we are ready right away to use this as an input to an exponential function. What if that wasn't the case, though? Let's say we had something like this, 3 plus 4 lnx equals 6. We know that were going to need to isolate natural log here, so let's go ahead and start out by doing that. What belongs on the other side of the equation now? Subtracting 3 and then dividing by 4 gives us natural log of x equals 3 over 4. Now, I'd like you to actually solve for X. Please round your answer to three decimal places. To get rid of our natural log here, we need to use lnx as the input to the exponential function with e as the base. So that gives us e to the lnx equals e to the 3 4ths. We know the left hand side just simplifies to x and the right hand side rounded to three decimal places is 2.117 Here's another equation for you to solve. Log base 10 of 5 x plus log base 10 of x minus 1 equals 2. To start off please condense the left hand side here to be the logarithm of just a single quantity. So in other words use the properties of logs that you learned to combine these two log expressions. According to the product property, this is equal to log base 10 of 5x times x minus 1. To keep moving forward with solving our equation, I'd like you to next to get rid of our log here. Then move all non 0 terms over to the left-hand side of the equation and simplify. Using each side here as the exponent of 10 to some power. We end up with 5x times x minus 1 on the left and 10 squared on the right. That means that our equations is actually 5x squared minus 5x equals 100. Subtracting 100 from both sides gives us, 5x squared minus 5x minus 100 equals 0. I notice however, there's a common factor of 5 in all the terms on the left-hand side. So let's divide it out. That leaves us with x squared minus x minus 20 equals 0. So the equation we're left with right now, is x squared minus x minus 20 equals 0. What do we get for x then? I've started out by factoring the left hands side. That gives us x minus 5 times x plus 4 equals 0. That means that x equals 5 or x equals negative 4. So, these should be the solutions to the original equation we started out with. We've come up with, as solutions to the equation, log base 10 of 5x plus log base 10 of x minus 1 equals 2. Are x equals 5 and x equals negative 4. Something doesn't seem quite right here, though. What do you think would happen if we substituted in either these values of , in the spots of x in our equation. Would both of these inputs give values of our function that are allowed? Think carefully about the domain of the log function. So which solutions are correct? The function f of x equals log based 10 of x can only have inputs that are positive. If we substitute in x equals negative 4, we'll find ourselves trying to take here the log of negative 20, or here the log of negative 5. We take here log base 10 of negative 20 and add to that log base 10 of negative 5. And yes, we get an error, just as we suspected. This isn't allowed because negative 20 and negative five aren't part of the domain of this function. That means that x equals negative 4 is not a solution. Nothing goes wrong though for x equals 5. We get perfectly valid values when we plug in five in the spot of X here. That means that only X equals five is a solution. So let's finally get to our earthquake problem. We're going to look at 2 earthquakes. One of them happened in Japan in 2011. This earthquake had a magnitude of 9.0. The other earthquake we're going to talk about happened in California. It was in 1857 and it had a magnitude of 7.9. This is the largest known earthquake in California. Now what do these numbers actually mean? Well, lets talk about the equation for the magnitude of an earthquake. Lets say that R is the magnitude of an earthquake on a Richter scale. Then for R we have the equation R equals log base 10 of I over S. Here, I is the intensity of the earthquake and S is equal to some constant. It's supposed to be the intensity of some sort of standard earthquake, which just has a fixed value. We don't need to know this value though, since we'll be eliminating it from our equations eventually. So here, once again, is our information about our two earthquakes. How does this information fall into an equation of this sort? Well, we know that R is the magnitude. So that means that over here for Japan we'll have 9.0 equals log base 10 of J over S. I'm just going to use the letter J instead of I, to show that this in the intensity of the Japanese earthquake. For California, we'll have something very similar. We're just going to instead have and R value of 7.9 and I'll use the letter C to represent the intensity of this quake, C for California. Now notice that in both of these log equations, we have a fraction as the input to the log. What we're going to want to do first is to split each of these up into two separate logs, since otherwise you're not going to be able to get rid of the S. So, which property do we need to use in order to do that? Should we use the product property, the quotient property, the power property or the change of base property. We need to use the quotient property. Log of a over b equals log of a minus log of b. Both of these equations have quotients as the input to the logs. Now that we know, we need to use the quotient property, let's do it. Please rewrite the right hand side of each of these equations, split into two separate logs. Over here we end up with 9.0 equal log base 10 of J minus log base 10 of S. And here we have 7.9 equals log base 10 of C minus log base 10 of S. I said before that we were going to want to compare our two earthquakes. But in order to do that we really need them in one equation together. To make that happen, I'm going to suggest that we subtract one of these equations from the other. Now we're allowed to do that because we have equal quantities lining up with one another. Lets see what happens. So please carry out the subtraction. Subtracting the entire California equation from the entire Japan equation. Now make sure that you let this negative sign distribute to every term we have here. What equation do we end up with? 9.0 minus 7.9 is 1.1. We still need an equal sign of course. And on the other side of the equation, we still keep our log base 10 of J, since nothing down here has cancelled that out. And we're subtracting log based 10 of C. Now, we have minus log based 10 of S here, and we're actually adding one down here. So, those two cancel out and this is all we're left with. So now we have a nice equation. 1.1 equals log base 10 of J minus log base 10 of C. Now I'd like you to combine these two logs using the quotient property once again into a single log. The quotient property tells us that this should just be log base ten of J over C. Now that we have a single log equal to a constant, we can finally find j over c. This will tell us how many times greater the intensity of the earthquake in Japan was, than the one in California. So please solve for j over c. Round to one decimal place. To get rid of our log here, we need to take both sides as the exponent of 10. The left hand side becomes 10 to the 1.1, and on the right hand side that will just leave us with J over C. Now let's use our calculator. 10 to the 1.1 is equal to 12.589 and so on, or rounded, about 12.6. So what does this mean? Well, that means that the intensity of the Japenese earthquake was about 12.6 times greater than the worst California recorded earthquake. In this last lesson of the course, you're going to be introduced to some real life examples. That can be described mathematically by exponential growth, exponential decay, and logarithmic growth. Now you've already seen the equations that correspond to each of these types of functions before, so I'm just going to refresh you on them. These forms I've written here may be slightly different than what we've talked about. Note for example, that our bases for our two exponential functions are e, and the base for our log function is 10. So this is just one way of expressing these types of functions. The question is, do you remember what each of these two functions looks like? So to jog your memory on that, here are three graphs. I've labeled them A, B and C and I'd like you to tell me which one corresponds to each of these types of functions. Exponential growth is shown with graph C here. You can see that as x increases, y is also increasing. Exponential decay is shown by graph A. Here, as x increases, y decreases. And logarithmic growth is shown by graph B. Our function is also increasing everywhere it's domain, but this is not happening in an exponential way, as it was over here. Remember also that exponential functions have horizontal asymptotes, and logarithmic functions have vertical ones. Now that you've jogged your memory a bit about these three types of models, let's talk about some specific examples that fit each of them. We're going to look at a pretty wide variety of topics. Population growth, carbon dating, and sound. Now earlier on in the course, we did talk about population growth, but we did this with pandas. Now we're going to do it with humans. Now there's pretty great data out there about how many people there are in the world. And we're going to check this out all the way from 1800 up through 2011. Let's take a look at some numbers. So here's a chart showing how the world population has changed in those 200 plus years. In 1800 there were only 1 billion people. And by 2011 there were 7 billion. Let's take a look at what this looks like on a graph. Looking at how this data is plotted, what kind of model do you think that this fits best? Does this look like exponential growth? Does it look like exponential decay? Or does it look like logarithmic growth? This looks like exponential growth. We can tell because the graph is increasing everywhere, and it's getting steeper and steeper as x increases. One of the most interest things about using real data and then trying to fit equations to it, is that it doesn't usually fit a single function perfectly. We can find curves that approximate it, but it's probably not going to be a completely 100 percent perfect fit. So let's see how that fit changes, depending on which points here we decide to base our function off of. Here, for example is the graph that we would get if we used the first two points on our chart to create and exponential graph. So what would this graph predict the population to be in the year 2013? Considering the scale on our graph here, it probably seems like it's pretty tricky to predict that. But luckily, Desmos is here to help. You'll find a link to this exact graph in the instructor comments on this question. Click on the link and then this graph will popup. Once it does, you can take a mouse and touch a point on the curve. From there, you can drag it, and select what x value you want. And from there, you can see what y value corresponds to it. Remember that this graph measures the year on the x-axis, and it shows the world population in billions of people on the y-axis. Now once you figured out what this graph says, the population will be in 2013, can you tell me if this is an accurate prediction? Think about what the population actually became by of year 2013, and see if this is the same thing. If you want to, you can also use Google to search for world population in 2013. Let's see what this graph predicicts the population will be in 2013. I'll slide my point down to the corerect X value. In 2013, it says there should be 3.2 billion people. So is this an accurate prediction? The answer is no. We saw on our chart earlier that by 2011 there were 7 billion people in the world. So, this is greatly underestimating the total world population. Using only the first two points in our chart doesn't actually predict very well what the population ended up being. Here's a new curve that we might use to estimate population at different dates. You can see from the graph that it actually looks like it fits a fair number of our points really closely. Remember, these green points are the coordinates of what appeared on our chart before, showing the actual population for these years. Once again, using the link to Desmos in the instructor comments, what does this blue curve predict the population will be in 2013? Thinking about that, and comparing that to the last number that we saw from our red curve in the last question, does this curve give us a better prediction? Let's Click and Drag, to see what the population is predicted to be by the blue curve. So I want an x coordinate of 2013, and there it is, 2013. And it says that the population should be 7.695 billion. So I'm going to round that number up, just for simplicity, to 7.7 billion. And is this a better prediction than the last one? I would say yes, definitely. We know the population 2013 is probably greater than that of 2011, which was already 7 billion people. 7.7 billion is much closer to 7 billion than 3.2, our earlier prediction was. So we know that this blue curve gives us a pretty good estimate of the world population. But, how good is it really? Well, current estimates right now say that the world population in 2013 is just under 7.1 billion people. So is the actually population growth of the world slower or faster than this graph predicts? In other words, are there more people or fewer people than predicted here. Slower growth means that there are actually fewer people. And faster growth means that there are actually more people than the blue graph shows. The actual population growth of the world is slower than the blue graph shows. 7.1 billion is less than 7.7 billion. Here are the two models we've been looking at, and I'd like to know what each of them estimates the world population would be by the year 2100. One of them is going to give us a lower estimate, and one of them is going to give us an upper estimate. So please tell me what each of those are. Once you figured out those numbers, I'd like you to tell me which estimate you think is more accurate and why. Or maybe both are inaccurate. Think about where the data that created each model came from. The lower estimate, which comes from our red graph here, is 5.1 billion people. And our upper estimate, which comes from this blue curve, is 36.1 billion. There's such a huge difference between these two estimates, that I think if we think about all the different factors that affect world population, we can see why. There's so many things that influence the number of people in the world. For example, we've seen an increase in world population due to decrease in death rates, as people live longer because of better health care. In the future, we have no idea what's going to happen. Maybe a pandemic will wipe everyone out. Or maybe we'll have food shortages due to climate change. Or perhaps advances in science mean an abundance of food and longer average lifetimes. Who knows? If you're interested in this, and I personally think it's a pretty fascinating topic, go to the forums and talk about this with your fellow classmates. I think what this illustrates is that even though we can make models, making a long term predictions, especially based on just equations, can be pretty difficult. It's still, however, worth discussing. Between 1947 and 1956 a collection of ancient Jewish texts was found in a series of caves along the Dead Sea. These 972 texts are known as the Dead Sea Scrolls. And they had a huge impact on history, linguistics and religious studies. Of course, reading the content of these texts was very important, but estimating their age was also really vital. The way that that was done was through carbon dating. So, what is carbon dating? Well, it's a technique used to find the age of any organic material that's up to 58,000 years old. This is done by considering the ratio of carbon 14 to carbon 12 in the material. Now if you're not super comfortable with chemistry, that is not a big deal at all. I'm going to give you all the information you need in this problem to figure everything out. You don't have to be an expert on carbon dating. What happens is that over time the amount of carbon 12 stays pretty constant. But the amount of carbon 14 decreases. These atoms decay. So the older something is, the smaller this ratio will be. One scrap of parchment from the Dead Sea Scrolls was found to have a ratio of carbon 14 to carbon 12, 0.795 times that found in plants alive today. Now, if this ratio for plants alive today, is 1 atom of carbon 14 for every 10 to the 12 atoms of carbon 12, what is the same ratio for the parchment? We know that the ratio for the parchment is 0.795 times the ratio for plants today, which is 1 in 10 to the 12th. So we need to multiply 0.795 times 1 over 10 to the 12th. Now this number is just 10 to the negative 12. So we have 0.795 times 10 to the negative 12. Now, conveniently, there's an equation we can use to relate the ratio of carbon 14 to carbon 12, to the time that has passed. That equation is this, R equals 10 to the negative 12, times e to the negative t over 8223. In this equation, R is that carbon 14 to carbon 12 ratio. And t is the age of the material we're looking at measured in years. Now you just found that R for the parchment is 0.795 times 10 to the negative 12. So using this equation, how old is the parchment? Please round to the nearest year. Think about the techniques you know using logs to simplify and then solve this equation. Our first step is to substitue this value of r into the equation. Now we need to work toward isolating t so I'm going to divide both side of the equation by this coefficient out here, ten to the negative 12. That leaves us with 0.795 equals e to the negative t over 8223. Now what we need to do is get t out of the exponent. So what do we need to do? Well, we need to take a log. Since e is the base of our exponent here, our log should have the same base. That means we need to take the natural log of both sides. On the left side, that's just going to give us some number that we can calculate with a calculator. But, over here something a little bit more interesting is happening. We have two inverse operations that are going to cancel one another out. Leaving us with just the exponent as the entire quantity on the side. I'll leave the left side as is for now. So we have natural log of .795 is equal to negative t over 8223. Now it's easy. All we need is a little bit of multiplication. We need to multiply both sides by negative 8223. So that leaves us with t equals negative 8223 times the natural log of 0.795. Lets pull out our calculator to figure out what number this is equal to. Using a calculator and rounding gives us a value of t of about 1886. So this piece of parchment from the dead sea scrolls is about 1886 years old. Now, in a real situation, estimates are a bit better than this. They are calibrated using, for example, tree rings to determine a slightly more accurate amount of carbon-14 in the plant material at a given time. Still, it's pretty awesome that we can even come up with any sort of estimate. We talked about earthquakes earlier on in the course. And now we are going to talk about that something that's measured in a very similar way. Surprisingly this is sound. Sound is also measured on a logarithmic scale. And we can use this equation to help us out. This says L1 equals 10 times log base 10 of P over B. Now here, B is some reference volume. it's just a constant that we're going to eliminate eventually, so we don't need to worry about what it's actually equal to. The two variables we have are important, though. P is what is known as the power of the sound, and L here, or I'm calling it L1 in this case, is a measure of the sound level. This is basically comparing the sound power P to B. Now, you may have heard about different sounds being dangerous to our hearing. And this equation can actually help us quantify that. L here, is measured in decibels or dB. And looking at the decibels ratings of different sounds it seems like a pretty small increase in the number of decibels. Actually amounts to a pretty big increase in potential damage. So why is this? Well, let's look at a few other questions to figure this out. So if the original sound power that we're talking about is p, as written in this equation, what will we need to use in its place if we wanted to talk about a sound with double that power We would need to use 2P instead of P. So let's say then that we have two sounds. One with the sound power of P and one with the sound power of 2P. What are their respective equations for sound level? For this first one, we have l 1 equals 10 log base 10 of p over b. So this is exactly the equation we have up here. If power is 2 p instead, then we need to plug 2p in place of p. So that gives us l 2 equals 10 log base 10 of 2p over b We now have expressions for L1 and L2, but there's a different way we could rate each of them. I'd like you to expand each of these right hand sides so that they contain two logs. We can use the Quotient rule to do this expansion. The only tricky thing here, is dealing with this coefficient of 10, outside the log. Since we're seeing, for example, that log base 10 of P over B, is equal to log base 10 of P, minus log base 10 of B. The 10 still needs to multiply this entire expression. So we have L1 equals 10 times log base 10 of P minus Log base 10 of B. And for L2, we have the same thing, except with 2P instead of P. Now that we have these expanded versions of our equations, I'd like you to use them to find L2 minus L1. Now assuming you simplify this properly, your answer should actually just be a number. When you find that number I'd like you to round it to the nearest integer. Your answer will be something that's measured in decimals. I've started out by just writing L2 minus L1. And we can notice that both of these have a factor of 10. So let's just go ahead and pull that out. So factoring out that 10 and then also distributing this minus sign to both terms inside the second parenthesis, gives us this. 10 times log of 2P minus log of B. Minus log of P plus log of B. Something that pops out in this expression is that we have a minus log of B and a plus log of B. So these two things are going to cancel each other out, awesome. That's how we get rid of that B and that's why we didn't need to know its actual value. Looking at what this equations reduces to then, we can see how much simpler everything is. We still however have another variable left in here. What do we do with this P? Well I think that we have to bring back our quotient rule again. But this time we are going to use it in the reverse order from how we did before. We're going to condense this expression into just a single log. This gives us 10 times log base 10 of 2P over P. Well, and look at that, if we divide 2P by P, these Ps just cancel each other out. That's going to leave us with something super easy. 10 times log base 10 of 2. This is just a number, let's use the calculator to evaluate this. We have 10 times log base 10 of 2. That's equal to 3.01 etc. Which I'm going to round to just 3, so our answer is about 3 decibels. From what we just discussed, you learn that an increase of 3 decibels doubles the power of sound. So, this gives us some context for thinking about what a decibel means, in general. Now, it's been found that after about 8 hours of exposure to 85 decibel noise, you can experience permanent hearing damage. So, this is just an example, but every time the sound power doubles, the exposure time before hearing damage occurs halves. I wonder then how long it would take for you to experience permanent hearing damage, if instead of 85 decibels a sound was 100 decibels. Let's start off simple. What's the increase in decibels from 85 decibels to 100 decibels? 100 minus 85 is 15. So our answer is 15 decibels. Remembering that sound power doubles every time we increase by 3 decibels. How many times is it going to double in this 15 decibel increase we were just talking about? The answer is 5, since 15 divided by 3 is 5. Thinking about the difference in decibels between 100 decibels and 85 decibels, and what this means in terms of power, how much more powerful is 100 decibels than 85 decibels? This is definitely a tricky question, but think back to the ones we've been doing just before this. We saw before that with a 15 decibel increase, our power is going to double 5 times. So, what does that actually mean? Well, it means if we have some power P, we're going to double it, or multiply it by 2, and then do that again, and again, and again, and again. Which means we are multiplying P by 2, five times. That's the same as multiplying the power by 2 to the 5th power. And 2 to the 5th is 32. So that means that a 100 decibel sound is 32 times as powerful as an 85 decibel one. We've gathered a bunch of information over the last few questions. Here's what we know. After 8 hours of exposure to 85 decibel noise, permanent hearing damage can occur. When we increase the decibel level from 85 to 100, the power increases by a factor of 32. And the exposure time before damage occurs is cut in half every time the power doubles. So, taking all this into account, how long will it take for permanent hearing damage to occur if you're being exposed to noise of 100 decibels. Please give your answer in minutes. Well, first thing's first, I wanted the answer to this question to be in minutes, but the time we have up here is 8 hours so let's convert that to minutes to start off. So 8 hours times 60 minutes in one hour gives us 480 minutes. Great, so this is the exposure time for an 85 decibel sound. We want to know what this is for a 100 decibel sound, so let's look at this last piece of information. If the exposure time before damage is cut in half every time the power doubles, we need to think about how many times the power doubles from 85 decibels to 100 decibels. We knew before that it was 5 times. So if the power doubles 5 times, that means that our exposure time is halved 5 times. So we need to take 480 minutes and multiply it by one half five times. That doesn't seem too bad. However, we know that if we want to multiply by one half five times, that's the same as multiplying by one half to the fifth power. One half to the fifth is one over 32, so we're actually dividing 480 by 32. And that gives us a final answer of 15 minutes. Now remember that every time the power doubles, we have a decibel increase of 3. Some sources state that instead of the exposure time being cut in half for every three decibels, this happens every five decibels, but I think it's better that we stay on the safe side. I bet you never thought we would end up talking about ear health by the end of this course. But that just goes to show you how incredibly applicable algebra is, in all spheres of life. In just this lesson we've talked about everything from sound to carbon dating, the Dead Sea Scrolls, and the population of the world, and this happened in just a few questions. He had a huge wait list of people who had, in total, asked for 87 wiper blade sets and 72 nozzles, but one afternoon things took a turn for the worse. One of his customers called, saying that she had just gotten contacts and she would no longer be needing the wipers or the nozzles that she had requested. Another person emailed him to say that he had gotten laser eye surgery and he wanted to cancel his order as well. Grant was beside himself. Not only was he sad that he had lost some customers, he was frustrated that he would never be able to target the population that didn't wear glasses. Grant also didn't know how these ordered cancellations would affect the total amount of money he would make. We can't really help Grant with his business issues, but we can help him with the math he needs to know about. So which of these expressions down here should replace the question mark right here, to create an equation for the future earnings that Grant will have after all of these orders are paid for? Remember that we need to take into account, both the money that he thought he was going to make from all of the orders he originally received, and then also, the money that he will no longer make from the orders that have now been cancelled. Please assume that money from all original orders, and money from cancelled orders down here are positive when written on their own. So we know that the total money Grant will earn from his sales is going to have to account for both the money he thought he was going to make from all of the wipers and nozzles he thought he was going to sell and also for the money that he will no longer make from the canceled orders. So that means that we can already rule out two of our answers. These two right here, the second and the forth, each of which only takes into account one of those two properties we need to have involved in our equation. Now we also know that Grant is not going to make as much money as he originally thought that he would because we need to remove the money that he would have gotten from the cancelled orders. If you want to remove a quantity you want to subtract it, not add it. So that means that this first answer choice, is the correct one. If we picked the third answer, then Grant would end up with more money, since we said that both of these quantities are positive after the orders were cancelled than he would have before any orders were cancelled. So that doesn't make sense. I know that the wording of things may have been a tiny bit confusing here, but in the end this is all going to help Grant out a ton, so it's worth our effort. All together, customers canceled orders for 3 wiper blades and 12 nozzles. How, then, should be represent the money that Grant would have made from those now canceled orders? Please remember that w is equal to the price per wiper set and n is equal to the price per nozzle. So again, I only want you to take into account the money that Grant would have earned from the three wiper blade sets and the 12 nozzle orders that have now been canceled. Selling 3 wiper sets would have given Grant 3 times the cost of 1 wiper set, which would be 3w dollars. And selling 12 nozzles would have given him, well, 12n dollars. We need to add these 2 quantities together to get the total amount of money that Grant would of made from all these canceled orders. So our answer is just 3w + 12n. Remember that the equation we had before. If the amount of money that Grant would earn if all of his original orders had gone through, was equal to 87w plus 72n. But this was before any orders had been canceled. And in the last quiz, we just found out how much money Grant would have earned from the orders that are now canceled. And that was just equal to 3w plus 12n dollars. A couple of quizzes ago, we also found an equation for Grant's total future earnings, taking his canceled orders into account. Of course, it was a pretty general equation, that didn't have any variables numbers in it yet. They said that his total future earnings will be equal to the money from all the original orders, minus the money he would have made from the orders that are now canceled. So let's combine all this information, using substitutions, into a single equation, for Grant's total future earnings. Earnings. So which of these expressions down here would correctly replace the question mark to come up with an equation for Grant's total future earnings, taking the cost of each wiper and nozzle into account. This is just another case we need to substitute in new values for these two quantities, money from all original orders and money from canceled orders into this expression using these other two equations. As we learned about substitution very early on in the course, if we have a system of equations that we know is allowed to work together and one quantity in one of the equations is equal to another quantity in another one of the equations. We can replace that quantity with the other way to express it. So in the case of these equations that means we can replace money from all our original orders right here with this expression, 87w+72n. Since this equation tells us that, that is equal to the money from all the original orders. We can do the same thing with the money from the canceled orders or the amount of money that Grant would have gotten if these orders hadn't been canceled. So we'll replace money from canceled orders with 3w+12n. So this is what the equation looks like if we just replace that one word money from canceled orders with the mathematical expression we know that it's equal to. But we need to do one thing to change this equation. We need to add parenthesis around 3w+12n. Now the reason we need to do that is because we know what we want to subtract the entire amount of money that Grant would have earned from the orders that are now cancelled. So to show that this is one quantity, one sum of money, the money he would have earned from the wipers and the money he would have earned from the nozzles, we put parenthesis around it. As it is, this equation could be useful for Grant, but I think that it could be more helpful if it looked a little bit cleaner. So, let's simplify. But wait, how do we deal with this minus sign and these parentheses around this part of the expression? We see like terms here so we know that we will be able to simplify this somewhat, and even though, we haven't talked about exactly how to do this, just give it a try. If it doesn't work out, no problem. We'll talk about it in a second. So type your answer for the simplified version of this expression into this box and please remember to simplify as much as you can. Good luck. I said earlier, that the reason that we need to put parentheses around 3w plus 12n, or the total amount of money that Grant would have gained from the orders that have not been cancelled, was because this was one sum of money. We want to subtract the whole thing, not just part of it. If we didn't have parentheses here, then we'd only be subtracting the money that he would've earned from the wipers that are now cancelled. But we would still be adding the amount of money that he would have gotten from the nozzle orders that are now cancelled. But we know that both of these sets of orders have been cancelled. So we need to make sure that both of them are subtracted from the original sum of money. So let's put those parentheses back. However, I don't really want those parentheses here in the end version of this expression. So we need to get rid of them somehow. Intuitively like I just said, you want to subtract both this quantity, 3w, the money from the canceled wiper orders, and this quantity 12n, the money from the canceled nozzle sales. So we want to subtract both of them, and if I get rid of these parenthesis, I should just be able to switch this plus sign to a minus sign, and have the expression that I want. This makes sense. Here's our original amount of money, that Grant would have earned from all of the orders that he had, and then we take away both the wipers that he's not selling anymore, and the nozzles he's not selling anymore. That makes sense. Now, the problem is simple, you've done this so many times before. You just need to rearrange the order of the term, so that like terms are next to each other, and then simplify. So first we rearrange the order of the terms, so the w terms are next to each other, and the n terms are next to each other. And then you just add they're coefficients together, and multiply it by the proper variables. So 87 minus 3 is 84, and the variable there is w, and 72 minus 12 is 60, and the variable there is n. So here's our final answer, 84w plus 60n, awesome job. That quiz had a bunch a steps in it, and some new material. So if you got it even partially right, that's really great. When we were working with equations for Grant this last time, what we were really doing was taking one expression, 87w+72n, and subtracting from it another expression, 3w+ And we worked with parentheses in a kind of new way. So, let's take a second, and talk a bit more explicitly about how to add and subtract polynomials. Let's start out by comparing what the difference is between subtracting polynomials and adding polynomials. So, this first expression is what dealt with in the last quiz. And we saw that because there's a minus sign in front of a quantity with parentheses around it, we need to change the sign of the operator that's in front of the 12n here. That's inside the parentheses. So, here's what we ended up with. We said that we needed to subtract both the 3w and the 12n, so both of them have minus signs in front of them now. What if instead, though, we decided to add them? So, we want to add this entire quantity that's inside the parentheses. So, here's a little quiz. What terms would you put in this green box right here to correctly complete this expression over here? The key here is that I want you to get rid of these parentheses that are around the 3w+12n, and show me how doing that changes the expression. I've already put a plus sign right here for you. So, that means that if you want the first term in the box to be negative, then I'd like you to put a negative sign in front of it. So thinking back to our case study, if instead of subtracting this quantity 3w + 12n, we wanted to add it, it would effectively be the same as, for example, getting another three orders for wiper blades and another 12 orders for nozzles. So, we would be adding new orders to the original number of orders that he had. And therefore he would make more money in the end. We know that some of that money would come from the wiper blade orders, and some of it would also come from the nozzles. So we want to add both those quantities to the original expression. So, that means that both of the terms, 3w and 12n. Should be positive. So the answer is 3w plus 12n. So you can see the difference here between having a negative sign, or a minus sign, in front of something inside parentheses versus having a plus sign in front of something inside parentheses. The minus sign up here ends up applying to both terms that were inside the parentheses, but down here. We didn't actually change the sign of either term that is in the parenthesis. Keep this in mind as we move forward. To talk more about subtracting polynomials, let's start off with a pretty simple example using just numbers. So, let's say that we had the numerical expression, 10-(2+3). What is this equal to? Just put a number in this box. So the answer to the problem, as you may have found out is 5. But there are actually two different ways that you can solve this problem. Let's go through both of them. So, if you remember our order of operations acronym, PEMDADS> This tells us that, before we do any subtraction, which we'll have to do right here. We need to deal with whatever's happening inside parentheses. So if we were following this set of rules, we would say that this is equal to 10 minus dealing with what's inside the parentheses, 2+3 is 5, and then we would do the subtraction, 10-5 is 5. However, as we saw in dealing with the equation that we gave to Grant, there's a way to get rid of parentheses, so that we can solve this problem in different way. Let's pretend that the numbers that we have up here actually refer to some objects. Let's say these circles that I have done here right now. So, here are ten circles and I want to figure how to modify these super circles in accordance with this expression. So we have ten vice, and then you want to get rid of 2+3 of them. So if we did the problem the original way, where we have 10-5 circles. Then we would just count out five of these 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, select just those ones and then get rid of them. And then in the end we're left with 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, five circles. However, let's talk about how to do the problem in the other way. Instead of grouping the circles that we want to get rid of as one whole group, as we did in the first way, so that's by dealing with what's inside the parenthesis first, and circling all five of the circles we want to get rid of, let's think about these as two separate groups. So, we know that we want to get rid of two circles. So that's just these two and we also want to get rid of three circles. Now instead of merging these into one group like we did the first way, why don't we just get rid of each of them separately since we know that we need to get rid of this whole thing. So first we'll get rid of these two and then we'll get rid of these three as well and in the end we' re left with the same five circles that were when we did the problem the first way. So what we really did was subtract two circles. So 10 minus 2 circles and then we subtracted the 3. So this gave us, our final five circles. Since we are doing algebra in this course after all let's look at an expression that is similar to the last one we looked at but actually has a variable it in. So here we have 4 - (x+9). What do you think this is equal to? Please make sure to simplify your answer as much as you can so I don't want to see any parenthesis in here and I also want to see all like terms combined. So the way that we deal with this problem is actually exactly like we did when we were doing 10-(2+3), but this time we can't change what's inside the parenthesis. There's no way that we know of to simplify x+9, since these are not like terms. So that means, that we can't go about doing things with the first method of PEMDAS, or at least the p here doesn't affect the way that we can do the problem, since we can't change what's inside the parenthesis. So, that means we're stuck with this second method. Remember down here that meant applying the negative sign to both the 2 and the 3 so we ended up subtracting each of them from the 10. So let's try to do the same thing up here. We want to subtract both the X and also the 9 so we'll have 4 minus X and then also minus 9. Rearrange and then combine like terms 4-9 is -5-x so we have our final answer of -5-x. So, it's pretty straight forward to think about applying the negative sign to both the x and the 9 when we're talking abut subtracting expressions from one another, but what we're really doing here is using an example of a much broader property. And that property is the Distributive Property. So, we're distributing this negative sign to both the x and to the 9 when we say that we want to subtract them both from the 4. So, I'm going to show you a slightly different way of looking at how to distribute that negative sign and what distributing a negative sign really means. First things first, we know that when we subtract, like we're doing here, that's actually the same as adding the negative of the thing that you want to subtract. So, for example, if we have 5-3, that's actually equal to 5 plus -3. Now, that may seem like we're working backwards but hang in there, this is going to be helpful. So, let's do the same thing here. This is equal to 4 plus the negative of this entire quantity. However, when we're taking the negative of something, what we're really doing is multiplying it by -1. So, in order to get -3, we actually have to say -1 times +3. So, that means that if we want -x+9, we actually need -1 times x+9. You'll notice that I didn't write a multiplication sign between this coefficient, -1, and the parentheses that's around x+9, because remember, there's an invisible multiplication sign implied between those when there's no space between them. So, I'll just get rid of that. So here, it's a bit easier to see explicitly why the Distributive Property is being applied in this case. We have a -1 that we're multiplying each term inside the parenthesis by. So, both x and -9 are each being multiplied by -1. The Distributive Property basically says that if you have some number or variable, let's call it a, and you want to multiply that by some number of terms that are inside parentheses, let's just pick two to be simple and call them b and c. And we'll just add them, although of course, c can be negative, and you could be subtracting or b could be negative. If you want to get rid of the parentheses, you'll end up with a being multiplied by each of these terms. So, the a multiplies the b and that's added to a times c as well. So, you can see why we use the word distribute here. The multiplication of the a affects the b and also affects the c. So, you have a times b, original operator that was between b and c, the plus sign, a times c. So, if we use that property in this case, we leave our 4+ and then we have -1 times x. Write the sign that's between the two terms inside the parentheses, -1 times 9. However, we know that -1 times x is just -x and -1 times 9 is also just -9, so we end up with 4-x-9. And that is actually what's happening when we are quote-unquote distributing this minus sign to both terms in here and then, of course, we could rearrange and simplify again. Now, since it's my job to make your life difficult. I'm going to give you a nice complicated expression here. We have 7x squared plus 2x plus 1, all inside parentheses. And I'd like you to add that to this other quantity that's inside parentheses. 4x squared minus 2x plus 4. And remember, I'd also like you to simplify as much as you can, so no more parenthesis and all like terms combined. I know this looks complicated, but you know how to do this. And if you don't get it right, no big deal. Okay, so we have 2 polynomials that we are trying to add together. And this may sound silly, but if we're adding one quantity to another, we're actually adding +1 times this quantity. Anything, let's say some number a, times 1 is just equal to itself. So a times 1 is a, and 5 times 1 is 5, and 4x^2 times 1 is 4x^2, and -2x times 1 is-2x. So having the parentheses here with the plus sign in front of them doesn't change the value or the sign of any of the terms inside the second set of parenthesis. So we can just write it but without the parenthesis. There's also nothing happening to the first set of parenthesis, at least not yet, so we can just rewrite it without the parenthesis as well. And now, we have a thing that we have a ton of practice we're dealing with. We just need to rearrange our terms and simplify. Once we've rearranged we combine our now adjacent like terms. So for x^2 term we have 11x^2. And now I'm dealing with the x to the first terms, +2 -2 is just zero, so these cancel each other out. And we don't have any term in the final answer with an x^1 in it. Then we just have 1+4 so our final answer is 11x^2+5. I just love doing these problems so much. because you start out with something that's so complicated and messy looking, and you end up with a really, really beautiful simple answer. Let's subtract these two polynomials. So what is your final answer if I ask you to subtract 4x^2-2x+4 from the quantity 7x^2+2x+1? Remember to simplify. So, as we talked about in our example before, we need to use the distributive property here to figure out how this minus sign affects all of the terms inside the second set of parentheses. First off though, since nothing is happening outside of the parentheses, on the front end at least, for this first part of our expression, we're just going to rewrite that without the parentheses. And then, we remember the trick that we talked about before that a minus sign actually means plus -1 times whatever you want to subtract. So instead of the minus sign right here, that's what I am going to write, we're adding -1 times this entire thing in parentheses. And now, we need to use the distributive property to multiply -1 by every term in here, this is going to affect the 4x^2 and the -2x and also the 4. So, going one step further, you'll notice that for right now, I've let there be an addition sign between all of the terms over here, and then their sign is being determined within the term before I change any of these to subtraction signs if they're going to be them eventually. So, now we can carry out the simplification within each term. Remember that if you have two negative numbers multiplied together, they equal a positive number. So, -1 times -2 is actually equal to positive 2. And now, since we have two terms where I'm adding a negative, I'm going to switch these to negative signs or minus signs. And then, last but not least, we rearrange and combine like terms. So our final answer is 3x^2+4x-3. Awesome job. There are a ton of steps as you can see in this problem, and there are a lot of places where it's really easy to make a silly mistake, so that's why it's super important that we write every single step down. I know this probably feels really tedious, but, in the end, as you keep practicing getting more proficient, it's going to be the thing that gives you the right answers. So please just keep taking the time to write out all of your steps and don't take any shortcuts quite yet. So we already talked about the general version of the distributive property is that if you have some variable, or number, or expression, or really anything in the slot where a is and you want to multiply that by some set of terms that are added together Inside parentheses. They could also, of course, be subtracted. Then the factor that you want to multiply everything by distributes its multiplication to each term that's inside the parentheses. So we end up with a b, or ab over here, + a c, ac over here. Now, we already saw how we use the distributive property when we want to subtract polynomials from one another. But in those situations, we let a = -1, and clearly, a could equal many other things besides -1. So, let's try something out, where a is a different number. So, to ease us in, to working with the distributive property, in many different ways, let's just start with a simple number example. What do you get if you multiply 3 by, the quantity 2+10. Just write a number answer in this box. So once again, there are actually two ways to solve this problem. The first way, using PEMDAS again, is to add what's inside the parentheses 2 plus 10, and then do the multiplication. It's one to split this into our two different methods. We can either say that we end up with 3 times the quantity 2 plus 10 or 12. And then 3 times 12 is just equals to 36. Or as we have learned before we can use the distributive property. So, if we want to do that, we first multiply 3 by 2 and then add whatever we get for that, 2 3 times 10. So if we write that out if 3 times 2 plus 3 times 10 and then we evaluate each of these terms individually, 3 times 2 is 6 and 3 times 10 is 30. And the end, that still gets the same answer. I'd like to take a minute to give you a visual of why the distributive property works the way that it works. So, let's go back to drawing our beautiful circles. So let's say we have a group of 2 circles and also a group of 10 circles. And, according to this equation, what we're going to want to do is both add them together and then triple them. So if we were to solve this problem the first way that we talked about, we would do this addition inside the parentheses first, and then our multiplication. So you would take these two groups, the 2 and the 10 circles, and merge them into one group. Great. So now we have 12 circles in one big group. And then, the next thing I want to do is multiply this group by 3, so that means we want 3 sets of this group of circles. So right now, we have one set and I can add 1 more, which make it 2 sets and then I can add a third one. Remember, multiplication is just repeated addition. So now, I have 3 groups of these 12 circles together and that's it. I can count these up and if I decide, I'd do that right now, which I won't, because I'm lazy, we would see that we have 36 circles. Okay, great. So, that's the first method for solving this problem. However, we also have that 2nd method of solving problems like this and that's using the distributive property. So if we want to use the distributive property, then the first step is going to be to multiply each of the terms that's inside the parentheses by the 3. So let's write down method 2. First, we're going to say 3 times 2, then we're going to add that to 3 times 10, just like we saw in the last quiz. Starting with the group of two circles, I wanted to triple this like we see in this 1st term. And then, as we see in the 2nd term, I want to triple this group as well. Great. So now I have two groups, one group of 6 circles which is 3 times 2, and one group of 30 circles which is 3 times 10. And then, I want to add those two groups together. So we need to merge this set of circles with this set of circles, and we end up with the exact same picture that we got using the first method. Once again, we have 36 circles all in one group. I hope this has given you some insight into why we're allowed to distribute multiplication to terms that are added together inside a parentheses. So to use your new found knowledge of the distributive property let's have a quiz. What is 3 times all this stuff in parentheses? x^2+5x-7. Try not to look in this upper right hand corner of the screen if you don't need to. The distributive property is still written out there, but see if you can do it without. So this problem may or may not have thrown you off a little bit, because as we can count, there are 3 terms inside these parentheses and in the problems we've done before. And in the rule that I wrote up here you only saw 2 terms added together. However it does not matter how many terms are inside a parentheses a multiplication is still going to distribute to every single one of them. So in this case the 3 is going to multiply the x^2 and also the 5x and also the -7. So let's write that out. So distributing 3 to each of these terms, we get 3x^2+3(5x)+3(-7), and then we can simply within each term. And we get a final answer of 3x^2+15x-21. So let's continue with our practice of the Distributive Property. Can you tell me what -5y(y+z) is equal to? Remember to simplify within each term as much as you can. And also remember if you need to write an exponent, let's say you need to write 2^3, you would type that in as 2^3. So, write the carrot sign before any exponent that you need to type. So once again we're just going to use the distributive property in the same way as we've done it many, many times before. The difference this time and what may have confused some people, is that our factor, our little a up here. If you can see, is actually two things multiplied together. However that does not change the way that we use the distributive property at all. As always the -5y, the factor out in front, is going to multiply each term inside here, both the y And the z. So our first term is going to be -5y y, and our second term is just going to be -5y z. Now again, I've just put an addition sign between the two terms for simplicity right now, so that I can determine the sign of each term within the term itself, and then change this to a - sign if I need to. That's just a lot easier for me personally to not get my signs mixed up. So now we simplify within each term. And we end up with -5y^2 - 5yz. So you can see that no matter how many things are multiplied together to create the factor that we have out in front of our parentheses, they all multiply each of the terms within the parentheses. So now that you've had a fair amount of practice with the distributive property, I'm going to give you a challenge problem. In fact, I'm going to officially declare that this is a challenge problem by writing challenge and I'll give you a few exclamation points just to reinforce my point that I think this is really hard. Here's a pretty complicated expression if I do say so myself. We have x plus 4 minus 3 x times the entire quantity, y plus 5 minus 2x plus 7x to the 2nd, and then subtract it from all of that, 6y. So, this is gross and messy but. So, this is gross and messy but. you have all the tools that you need to simplify this and make it look relatively pretty. So take your time, write everything out on paper, and seriously, make sure that you don't skip any steps. Or, at least I know, that when I did this problem, if I hadn't written anything down, I would have made a bunch of mistakes. So, take your time. Good luck. Judging from how complicated this looks right now, they're probably going to be a lot of steps involved in simplifying this expression. So, let's just get started. The first thing I'm going to do is use the Distributive Property to distribute multiplication of -3x to every term inside the parentheses. Remember that it doesn't matter how many terms are inside the parentheses, we still multiply every single on of them. So, for now, that's the only thing that I'm going to change. I'm going to leave everything else, all the other terms in the expression, exactly as they are. So now, we have this long expanded expression. I'm really sorry. I had to erase your challenge warning sign, but know that I still think this is a challenge problem. Now, we'll simplify it within each term. You'll notice that I haven't switched any of these operator signs to minus signs yet so I'll do that in this next step. So, wherever I'm adding a negative term, I'm actually just subtracting that term. So, instead of plus -3xy, I'll actually just have -3xy. And now finally, we get to rearrange our terms so that like terms are next to each other and simplify. And so, here's our final answer. You still have six terms, which just goes to show you sometimes, you can't do anything more to make an expression look any prettier. But it definitely is a bit less complicated than it was at the beginning. I know this was a really tough problem and again, there were many, many opportunities for little mistakes to be made. So, if you got even part of this right, especially practicing the distributive property, that is awesome. So, if you made a little mistake, go back and try it again. The Distributive Property will keep popping up at different places throughout the course so it's super important that you really, really understand it. Although, probably not all the problems we do will be quite as complicated as this one. So the last equation that we'd created for Grant to tell him how much he would earn in the future, once people actually paid for the glasses, wipers, and nozzles they had ordered, was that his total future earnings = 84w, where w is the price per wiper set plus 60n, where n is the price per nozzle. However, there's been another change in the situation. In considering the last change that happened to Grant, which was the cancellation of orders that made him really, really sad, this is a super positive update. First, Grant got a telephone call from an elderly wealthy gentleman, named Mr. Belvedere, who happens to be super interested in glasses wipers and in the nozzles that Grant has developed to go along with his wiper blades. He was so enthusiastic about Grant's inventions that he offered to triple all of the orders that Grant had brought in so far, which means that Grant's total future earnings, which we know before were 84w + 60n, will be multiplied by 3. Then a second piece of good news came. A school principal called Grant and let him know that she wanted to order, one wiper blade set and one pair of nozzles, for each of her 150 students who wear glasses. This however happened after Mr. Belvedere decided to triple the orders that had come in so far. So his tripling does not apply to this new batch orders from the school. What we want to do now, is take into account, these two updates to Grant's total future earnings. We know that the first thing that happens, is that Mr. Belvedere will triple the orders that Grant had initially. And then after that tripling happens, a school orders one wiper set and two nozzles for each of its 150 students. So remember step one here happens before step two. So taking those two things into account what is a new equation for Grant's future earnings? So, in other words, how do we modify the equation that we had before for his total future earnings, 84w+60n, to reflect these two changes to the number of orders that he has, and therefore the amount of money that he's going to make? Please choose the best choice from these four. To find the updated total future earnings, we're going to start by writing down the initial total future earnings we had. So, this is our baseline, this is what we start out with, and now, I'm going to show how these two changes affect the equation. The first thing that happens is that Mr. Belvedere triples the amount of money that Grant will eventually make off of these first orders. So, that means we need to multiply this quantity, 84w+60n, by 3. So I'm going to have to put parentheses around it and write a 3 out front. Great. Then the 2nd step is that a school orders, one set of wipers and one pair of nozzles for each of its 150 students. So that means that for one student, the school wants one wiper set and two nozzles since they're a pair of nozzles. And we know that one wiper set costs w dollars, so for one student, the school is going to pay w plus the cost for the two nozzles, which we know is 2n. So the school pays w+2n for every student. However, they have 150 students to pay for, so that means that the amount the school will pay is 150(w+2n), so this is our final equation. The updated total future earnings will be equal to 3 times the quantity 84w+60n, and then, added onto that, 150(w+2n) to account for the orders from the school. So looking back at the quiz that you took, I'm sorry, I left out the word total from the quiz, these are the same quantity. So we need to figure out which of these four choices corresponds with or is equal to this expression up here and the correct answer is this 4th choice. Now this doesn't look exactly like this equation, number for number, and that's because the 150 has been distributed to the two terms inside the parentheses. So, if we do that, we keep the first part of the expression the same and then I just multiply 150 by either the terms in the parentheses, just like you did with all of your practice using the distributive property. 150 times w is just 150w and 150 times 2n is 300n. So that's why the final answer is the correct choice. Great. Now, we're one step closer to giving Grant a very nice and easy to use equation for the amount of money he's going to earn. The equation that we ended up with at the end of the last quiz for Grant's total future earnings, taking into account the two updates to the number of orders he has received, is definitely helpful. But I think that we can still make it look better. In fact, I know we can because I see that there are some like terms here that have not yet been combined. Using your understanding of the distributive property and just simplifying expressions in general, please simply this expression as much as you can. You'll notice that I actually, in the last quiz, already did part of it for you. So, see if you can remember how to do this. Simplifying this expression is really just 2 instances of using the distributive property. Let's multiply each term inside this 1st set of parentheses by 3. And we want to multiply each term within the 2nd set of parentheses by 150. And now we just multiply within each term to simplify. And last, but not least, we add like terms and we end up with a final answer of 402w + 480n. This is interesting. We can see finally, now that everything is simplified, how the number of nozzles that have been ordered compares to the number of wipers that have been ordered. Before, when we just had 84w + 60n, as Grant's total future earnings, there were clearly more wipers than nozzles in demand. But now the situation is reversed. More novels have been ordered than wipers. This is one of the many reasons why simplifying expressions is really, really helpful when we're doing word problems. When we have things simplified down as much as we can, we're able to see what real word situations are reflected by the math. Since you're now an expert on using the distributive property, see if you can use it to multiply these two polynomials together. We have x+2, the whole thing, times x+3, the whole thing. I know that this probably looks a little bit tricky because it looks different from anything you've done before, but it actually uses the same distributive property concept that we been talking about. A, here, just happens to have two terms in it. So, just give it a try. See if you can use the distributive property to solve this problem. Remember, simplify your answer as much as you can. As I suggested in the question video, we can use the distributive property to solve this problem. The difference between this and problems we've done before is that the factor outside of the second parentheses, that we want to multiply everything in here by, is itself a polynomial. However, that doesn't change how we use the distributive property. We're still going to take this entire quantity and multiply it by each of the terms in the second parentheses. So the first thing we're going to have is x+2 times x, and then we'll add to that x+2 times 3. Great, so this looks a little bit more manageable, or like each piece will be. At this point, we're going to use a trick that we've talked about before. We're going to use the commutative property of multiplication. You might wonder, where will we use that here, but notice that if we rearrange the order of these two terms. So instead we'll write x times x+2, and you may be wondering why is that useful, but as you can see, if we rearrange the factors within each term like this, then we have what looks like just a standard distributive property problem, like you've done so many times before. Great. We know how to handle that, and we can simplify within each term, rearrange, and combine like terms. So our answer is x^2+5x+6. We're going to backtrack, for just a second, to make sure that you understand the steps that are required to multiply two polynomials together. So we're just going to incrementally build up to getting the final answer for this. So for the purposes of this quiz, I want you to act like you're only doing step 1 of solving this problem or of simplifying this expression rather. So for now, please just treat this first factor, the x+5, as a block, so as a single unit, and then distribute it to each of the two terms inside the second set of parentheses and then write out what you would have in the slots over here on the right. The first thing we do is multiply (x+5) times x. So we'll put x+5 here, and x here. And then the second thing we do is multiply (x+5) times -2. So that is as far as I wanted you to go with this quiz. Awesome! So, here's how far we've gotten. We have our first polynomial factor, x+5, treated as a block, and it is multiplying each of the terms inside the second set of parentheses. The next step is to apply the distributive property, once again. You know that we would rearrange each of these terms so that the factor x+5 comes after the factors that only have one term inside them. And then once we got here we would use the distributive property again, to simplify for each of these terms. So let's take a second and compare what we're doing in this step of the problem to what we did in the very first step. In both cases, we're using the distributive property. We used it the first time, so that we could set ourselves up to do it again. Notice though, which numbers and variables are written here. We have an x and a -2 and then we have an x and a +5. And those are just the same terms that are in the two polynomials up here. The things that we're multiplying together are x and x, x and x, x and 5, x and 5, -2 and x, -2 and x, and 5 and -2. What we've done here, using the distributive property, is just make sure that every term in the first polynomial is multiplied by every term in the second polynomial. Here we've reach another point where we can use a sort of shortcut, so we don't have to do quite as many steps in the problem. We'll talk more about that idea in a second. But just for good measure, please write down the final answer for this problem. What is the most simplified form of x + 5 times x - 2 that you can find? In addition to simplifying, please make sure that you write your answer in standard form. To continue this problem, we're just going to apply the distributive property to both this part of the expression and this part of the expression. And now we simplify within each term and combine like terms. One quick thing to take note of before I write the final, final answer for this question, let's look at each of these terms. First we have x^2. Now x^2 is just x times x, or x times x. The first terms, in each of our factors, multiplied together. Then we have 5 times x, or the second term of our first factor multiplied by the first term of our second factor. Then we have -2x, which is just -2 times x. The first term from our first factor times the second term of our second factor. And lastly, -2 times 5. Or -10, which is just this factor, 5, times this factor, -2. So you can see that we've taken every combination of pairs of terms from these two factors and multiplied them together in order to get our final answer, which is just x^2 + 3x - 10. In working out the answer to the last quiz, we saw that when you're multiplying 2 polynomials together, we actually end up using the distributive property a couple of times, multiplying every term in the first expression by every term in the second expression. So we're taking every possible combination of pairs of terms, using one from the first expression and one from the second expression. This is actually a general rule that applies to multiplying any pair of polynomials, regardless of long it is. So we could use this trick even if there were 10 terms inside the first set of parentheses and 3 terms inside the second set of parentheses, or any other number of terms in either one. In any situation like this we just need to go through one by one, each of the terms inside the first set of parentheses, and multiply them by the terms over here. So in this case, we start with x, and we say x times the first term over here, which is x, so we have x times x. And the second thing we do is multiply x by the next term in the second set of parentheses, x times -2. Then, since we've exhausted all the terms inside the second set of parentheses, we can move to the next factor inside the first set of parentheses, which is 5. 5 applies to the first term in the second set of parentheses, which is x, and then also to the second term, which is -2. So stepping one by one, through the terms inside the first set of parentheses, and applying them each to all of the terms inside the second parentheses, before moving on to the next term, in the first set of parentheses, is a great way to make sure that you have actually covered all of your bases, and made all of the combinations of pairs or terms that you can. Here's a chance for you to try out how this works using a slightly bigger polynomial. So we have a polynomial of two terms, as our first factor, multiplied by a polynomial of three terms, as our second factor. So remember start with the 3x over here and multiply it by each of the three terms in the second set of parentheses, and then, distribute the 1 to each of these. So all we're really doing is using the distributor property first, only looking at the 3x and then second, only looking at the 1. So, give it a try. If this is difficult that makes perfect sense, this is a really tricky concept to grasp. We will give you plenty of practice to make sure that you understand it. We know that to multiply this polynomial by this polynomial, we need to ensure that every term over here is multiplied by every term over here. So if we take these two terms one by one, and make sure that each of them is multiplied by every term over in the right=-hand expression, then we'll cover every combination of pairs of terms and also make sure that we don't repeat any. So I'm going to start by distributing the 3x to every term over here. And now that I've multiplied it by each of the three terms that I needed to, I move on to the 1. At this point, all that's left to do is to simplify each term and combine like terms. And we get a final answer of 3x^3-14x^2+x+2. Lucky you. You get to do another challenge problem right now. Here we have two polynomials once again. This one has 4 terms and this one has 3 terms and I would like you to multiply them together, and of course, simplify as much as possible. I know that you're probably not very pleased with me for asking you to do this, but the reason I am asking you to do it is because I think that this is a great way to make sure that you're actually being very careful with writing out every step in the process for solving this problem. So I know it's not going to be particularly exciting, but if you're careful the first time you do it, then you won't have to do it again. So I'll just remind you. Write everything out, and remember you just want to take each term in the first set of parentheses and multiply it by every term in the second set of parentheses. And then, add all those many, many terms together and simplify. Good luck. I've given myself a whole bunch of room, so that I can write out all the steps that I'm going to need to simply this expression up here. So as we talked about before, in other problems where we're multiplying polynomials, to deal with these 2, I'm going to start the 1st term of the 1st polynomial and make sure that I multiply it by every single term in the 2nd polynomial. So I'm going to write out all of those terms to start out. So I have 3 terms here, reflecting the fact that I multiplied this term by each of the 3 terms in this expression. Now that the -4x^2 is taken care of, I'll move on to the x, since that's the next term in this 1st polynomial. Once again, I should add on 3 more terms to what I'm building up here, 1 for each of these terms, since I'm multiplying this by all of them. So now I have 6 terms total, which I can double check by counting them all out. And this is actually a really good way to check that you're on the right track, in terms of the spot in the problem you're at. If I've already multiplied out the terms that I need for the first 2 terms of the 4 that I'm going to need to multiply. And there are 3 terms that I'm multiplying each of them by, that'd make sense that I would have 2 times 3, or 6 terms total. Now let's continue, by multiplying all of these by 2y. And finally, we get to the last term in our 1st polynomial, the -6, and now we have a super long expression. This looks pretty miserable right now, but hopefully, as we continue to simplify within the terms, then combine like terms, things will get to look a little bit nicer. Really though, in terms of new material that this problem covered, our job is done. All that's left is for us to simplify. Although, of course, this is a particularly complicated simplification process, because there are so many terms. We just have to be super careful. We end up with this lovely, very long final answer of -12x^2y^2+20x^3+3xy^2+6y^3-17x^2-10xy-18y^2+33x+6y-18. Wow. That was really difficult, and if you got this perfectly right, I am so proud of you. I actually made a couple of mistakes myself when I was redoing the problem on the tablet here. You can see actually, when I was doing my work, that I had to put little check marks above all the terms in this step before I got to the final answer. The reason that I did that, is that I wanted to make sure that as I rewrote each term down here, and combined it with it's like terms, that I prevented myself from dealing with it again. So, I put a little check mark above a term, when I wrote it down here, that also let me check that I actually had dealt with every single term that I needed to deal with. I think at this point, if you got this problem right, you have mastered multiplication of polynomials. Congratulations. That's pretty huge. It took Grant a while to process the orders that he had gotten from the school, and from Mr. Belvedere, but in the end, he finally had a moment to relax. He had visions of little children running around with glasses, wipers, and nozzles, and of course, of his new friend. What a nice old man. He felt so excited and so satisfied that, pretty soon, his products would be keeping the glasses of people all over the world nice and clean, but he realized he'd left out one major detail. He hadn't yet set the price for his wipers or for his nozzles. In terms of the equation that we came up with for his total future earnings, he hadn't picked a value for w yet, or one for n. Remember that w is equal the price per wiper blade set and n is just equal to the price per nozzle. Grant thought long and hard about how much he wanted to charge for each wiper blade set and for each nozzle. But finally, he came to a decision, he set the price per wiper blade set at $30 and he set the price per nozzle at $12. Now, these might look like kind of steep prices, but, hey, Grant had worked really hard on both of his products and they're actually pretty intricate designs. Takes a lot of work to make nozzles and wipers this small that aren't just going to break their first use. Now that we finally have values for w and n to equal, we can plug them into our equation for total future earnings, using substitution, like we have so many times before. Can you use these two numbers, 30 and 12, in the proper places in this equation to come up with a number for the total amount of money that Grant will make off of the orders that have come in so far? Think about what numbers you want to substitute where, and then be sure to be careful about order of operations. I rearranged things on the screen here a little bit. just so I'd have room to write my answer out, but this is all the information that you had to start the last quiz with. Remember, from our practice using substitution before, that if we see a variable in one equation, but we know that that variable is = to some other expression, then we can substitute in that alternate expression in the place of the original variable. So, in the case of w and n, for example, we have these two numbers that we can now replace them with. So, we see w here, 402w, and w here, w = 30. So I can take the 30, and move it into this slot. And I can do the same thing with n and 12. I'm going to rewrite this side of the equation again, but this time with our new numbers plugged in. In place of w I put 30 and in place of n I put 12. Now we need to recall our understanding of order of operations. So PEMDAS. The thing we need to decide here is whether we multiply or we add first. Since we have we have two terms that are multiplied and another two terms that are multiplied but then also an addition sign. In our past practice with simplifying expressions we always simplified within each term, or multiplied everything out, before we combined like terms or added, and that's completely in line with PEMDAS. Remember, this is an acronym to help you remember the order in which you do different mathematical operations within a given expression. So the M here, which stands for multiplication, comes before the A, which stands for addition. So we're going to do our multiplication first. 402 times 30 = 12,060, and 480 times 12 = 5,760. Last but not least, we add these two numbers together. This gives us a final answer of 17,820. Much to the delight of Grant and his venture capital funders. They're going to bring in $17,820 with just the orders that have been placed so far in the first few weeks. That is really incredible. Grant has proven that he has a product, or actually two products, that are popular and people think are really going to be useful. He is convinced he's out to change the world, or at least the way that glasses wearers see the world. Congratulations on great work, we covered a ton of material, and I am sure that you did great. Grant consults his books from the first four days of manufacturing. Everyday, the total number of sest of wiper blades that have been produced up until that point is logged. So after one day, 23 wiper blade sets have been made. After two days, there are 46 total. Three days, 69. And so on and so forth. When Grant looked at this, he noticed a pattern. Let's help Grant continue the table. How many sets of wiper blades will have been produced by the end of day 5? The trick here was to identify the pattern. If we look at the total number of wiper blades that have been made at the end of any one of the days on this table, and then we look at how many have been made by the end of the next day, that is where we see the pattern. After the first day, there are 23, but after the second day, there are 46. The difference between 46 and 23 is 23. To get from 46 to 69, we have to add 23 again. And we do the same thing to get from 69 to 92. So, you can see that as each day goes by, we're adding 23 wiper blade sets to the total number of wiper blade sets that have been made. So, logically, we do that again when we move from day 4 to day 5. This means we need to add 23 to 92 to get the number that belongs in the teal box. 92 plus 23 is 115. At the end of day 5, 115 wiper blade sets will have been produced in total. Pattern finding, just like we did in the last quiz is a big part of what makes math so interesting. Now that we know that each day we make 23 more units total, what's the best way to find out how many we'll have by the end of day 14, which is when the expo is? Should we complete the table down to 14 days? Should we find a mathematical relationship between days and total number made? Or, last but not least, should we make an estimate about how many wipers will be made by the end of day 14? This a little bit subjective, and more than one of these might actually work, but please pick what you think would be the most. The best and fastest way is to find a mathematical relationship between the number of days that have passed and the total number of wipers said that I've been made. Completing the table would work, but it would be pretty time consuming. Estimating is often a good way to begin thinking about a problem, but it doesn't give exact answers. We want to get information to Grant quickly but we also want to be really accurate about. it. For this situation, there's a simple relationship between the day and the number of units that have been produced up till' that point. I'll begin by telling you that the total number of wiper blades that have been made, which I'm going to label n right now, is equal to some number times the number of days that have passed. And from now on, I'm going to call the number of days that have passed d. So, what I just said is that n equals some number times d. Remember, n refers to the total number of units that have been made, and d refers to the number of days that have passed. So, fill in the blank right here with the number you think belongs in that spot. The number that belongs here is 23. So, how did I figure that out? Well, one way to check if the solution is correct is by writing this equation, and then substituting in values for d and for n, and seeing if they match our table. We know that,= after 3 days, for example, 69 wiper sets have been produced. So, that means that if we take d and we replace it with 3, we should get that n equals 69. And sure enough, 23 times 3 is 69. That checks off their table. So, we can see that our equation fits the situation that we were trying to make it fit. You could do a similar thing with any of the other sets of entries on this table. When you plug in a number for d, you should end up with a corresponding number for n when you simplify. But checking if a solution is correct is pretty different from creating the solution yourself. So, how did we come up with these mathematical descriptions, these equations on our own? That's what the next few lessons are going to be about. We've now spent quite some time looking at expressions, thing like 2 x cubed minus 7 y squared plus 28. Now expressions are great and useful and all, but we can't actually solve anything when we just have an expression. To be able to find solutions, we need equations. We've already looked at how to set up equations, but just to remind you, what is an equation actually? Here are a bunch of choices for what an equation might be, and I'd like you to pick the best answer. The best answer of these five choices is the third one. An equation is two expressions that have been set equal to one another. Although this second choice, something that has an equals sign, is partially correct. There are more things involved in creating an equation than just an equals sign. We'll talk more about that in just a moment. Just before we go on, these answer choices for the last quiz that now have these blue arrows next to them, are definitions of other things that you met a few lessons ago. Please fill in each teal blank with the word that you think properly completes the sentence. Remember, you might have to think back to a few lessons ago to remember what these words are. Thinking way back a few lessons ago, a combination of terms that are added together is an expression. A letter or symbol representing values that vary, keyword vary here, is a variable. Remember, you can really see and hear the word vary inside variable. So, that's just a good way to remember what the function of these things is. And finally, the product of variables and numbers is a term. A term is just a set of variables and constants that have been multiplied together. I hope this was a good review of some of the algebraic form we've learned so far. Right. Now, back to equations. I mentioned a moment ago that an equals sign isn't enough for something to actually be a true equation. Which of these choices don't make sense, just aren't right from a mathematical point of view? Remember, I want you to check off the ones that don't make sense, not the ones that do make sense. We could jokingly say 2 plus 2 equals 5, but this is not actually an equation. So I'm going to check it off. The reasons it is not an equation is that the quantities on either side of the equal sign are not actually equal to one another. We know that 2 plus 2 equals 4, and we know that 4 is not equal to 5. So this is not a true equation. When you do the same check on this equation right here. Once again, since 2 plus 2 equals 4, that means we have 4=4, which is an equation. So we won't check this answer choice. n plus 2 equals n plus 3 is a little bit trickier. Now, what is the problem here? Although I didn't tell you that this is an answer that you should have selected. The issue is that, no matter what value you substitute in for n, the two sides of this equation will never be equal to one another. The right-hand side, that says n plus 3, will always be 1 larger than the left=hand side. So for example, if we let n equal zero, we have 0 plus 2 equals 0 plus 3, which leaves us with 2 equals 3, and that is not true. A similar thing will happen no matter what number you plug in for n. The same thing is not true of this equation, 1 plus n plus 1 equals n plus 2. In fact, the opposite is true. No matter what value we substitute in for n here, this equation will always be true. This is a special kind of equation that we'll talk about in just a second. What if we have the equation n plus 1 equals 2? Are the two sides of this equation equal to one another? The answer is, it depends. And what does it depend on? What determines weather or not this side, n equals 1, will equal this side, 2. Please pick the best answer. Remember that variables are so great and useful because they can take on different values. We could substitute in a whole bunch of things for n right here, but only one of those numbers would make this entire side of the equation, n plus 1 equal to 2. If we pick n equals 7, for example, we'll end up with 7 plus 1 equals 2. Or, if we simplify, 8 equals 2. But that definetely can't be right. Either way, the answer to this question is, the value of n. We know that some value of n makes this equation true, but, what is that value? Fill in a number that you think belongs in this equation for n into this box. This equation tells us that 2 is a number that is 1 greater than n. So that means that n is a number that is 1 less than 2, so n must be equal to 1. We can check this by plugging 1 back into our equation, or using substitution. If we do that, we get 1 plus 1 equals 2. Since 1 plus 1 does equal 2, that checks out. And our answer for n must be correct. There are several different situations in which we might see equal signs. The last case you did had an example of a conditional equation in it. Conditional equations are true for some values of the variable, but not all. So, like we saw earlier, this left side of the equation will be equal to the right side, depending on what we plug in for n. Some numbers will work, but some will not. Some things with equal signs will be identities. In an identity, no matter what number you plug in for the variable, you will get a true equation. The third case is that we might see an equal sign in something that is not actually an equation. You've seen a few of these before. No matter what number I plug in for y, over in this equation, I will never be able to make the left side equal to the right side. We'll talk more soon about the situations in which these different types of equations are used or at least, where these top two are used. The last one is usually something that comes up if a mistake has been made somewhere in our math. Which of these equations over here on the left are identities? Which ones are conditional equations, and which ones aren't equations at all? For each equation, pick the category that it falls into. For this first equation, x plus 5 equals x plus 7, the right side of the equation is always going to be 2 greater than the left side, since 7 is 2 greater than 5. Since no value of x can make these two sides equal to each other, this is not an equation. There is some number that we can substitute for x though, in the second equation, that gives us 27 when we multiply it by 3. So, what times 3 equals 27? 9. So, this is an equation. However, other numbers that we can put into x like zero would not make this true, so this has to be a conditional equation. Our third equation is the same type as the second one. Since some values of x make this true. And our last equation is an identity. If we simplify the expression that we have on the left-hand side, we can combine like terms, since we know that x and 2x are like terms. And we can make the left-hand side equal to 3x plus 3, which is exactly the same as the right-hand side. No matter what we plug in for x, these two will be equal. So this is an identity. Now, that we've talked about what an equation really is and what types of equations there are, let's actually build some up. To do that, we're going to keep helping Grant deal with his manufacturing process. Since Grant's Gleaming Glasses has started manufacturing now, they actually have to pay for things, namely, the materials they use to make glasses wipers and nozzles. To buy just the material that he needed to make the wipers that were produced in the first 4 days, Grant spent $598. He's thinking that next week, he'll need to spend around $750 to start the nozzle manufacturing process. We know from that chart we made earlier, that he was able to make 92 glasses wipers in the first 4 days. Oh, and he also told me that he took his friends out to lunch and he spent 54 more dollars on that. To plan for the future, Grant is getting a little bit worried. There are a lot of different numbers he needs to keep track of. He wants to know how much he spends on the materials to make just one set of wiper blades, but he needs our help to sift through all these numbers. Okay. So, there were a lot of words in that last problem I just said out loud to you. There are a lot of things to look and a lot of numbers to think about. And many people, including myself, end up feeling kind of confused and overwhelmed when starting to work on a word problem. To help you out, here's a list of the facts that I told you in our story. I'd like you to check off all of the ones that we actually need to pay attention to in order to find what we're looking for in the problem, which is, to remind you, the cost of manufacturing just one set of glasses wipers. The key to figuring out which pieces of information we care about is to keep in mind what we're looking for in the problem. Since we want to find out how much one set of wiper blades costs to make, the total amount of money that Grant has spent on micro productions so far, definitely matters, as does the total number of wiper sets that, that money, $598, funded. Grant's lunch with his friends does not affect the materials that he needs for a set of wipers, so I'm not going to check this one off. It doesn't actually matter for this problem. And this last choice that we have left to consider has to do with nozzles alone, not wipers, and as you can see from the question, wipers are what we're concerned with. We can tell already from this list, and from the fact that half of the answers aren't checked off, that a lot of the times situations that pop up are full of information that isn't relevant to the problem we're trying to solve. And the first step to solving problems is to make sure we identify what we need to pay attention to and what we can ignore, to make our lives easier. Thinking back to what information we decided was important in the last quiz, we're going to use that to create a word equation for the cost to make 92 glasses wipers. So try to remember which quantities we decided were relevant for figuring out this problem, and then think about how those 2 quantities might be related to each other. Place the letter of each quantity that you'd like to be an equation in these teal boxes, one in each box of course. And then pick which of these four operators you think relates the two of them together. Should they be added, subtracted, divided or multiplied? Remember that what we're going for in the end, we want this side of the equation to equal is the cost of manufacturing 92 glasses wiper sets. We said earlier that the cost to make 92 glasses wiper sets is going to depend on the cost to make one wiper set, which is choice a, and also the number of wiper sets total that are made, choice c. So, I know that a and c are going to be the letters that go in these boxes, but I need to think about the operator that I want between them before I can decide which one goes in the first box and which one in the second. Or, if that order matters at all. In previous lessons, we thought about how total money spent is equal to the money spent per unit times the number of units that are being made. So, if we want to make two glasses wipers instead of one, we're going to pay twice as much money. If you wanted to make three wipers sets, we're going to spend three times as much money, and so on and so forth. So, we need to multiply these two quantities, a and c, together. I'm going to go ahead and fill in a multiplication sign in this box. We learned earlier from the commutative property of multiplication that when we're multiplying two things together, order doesn't matter. So, it doesn't matter if I have a or c in this box, or a or c in this box. As long as I have one in one spot and one in the other, we are good to go. At this point, we want to start translating the equation we just came up with into more traditional Math language. As a reminder, here is the information, up here at the top, that we decided before was going to be useful for us. And down here is that word equation that you came up with in the last quiz. We have three quantities related to one another in this equation, and I would like to know right now which one of these you think we need to represent with a variable for the purposes of solving this problem. We already know how many glasses wiper sets were made in the first 4 days, which is this quantity down here, and we can also see in our given information, how much making these glasses wipers cost, which is this quantity over here. Now the only quantity of these 3 that we don't already have a number for, from our given information, is the cost per wiper set. So this is the thing that we need to represent with a variable, since we don't have any other number to replace it with yet. Leading up the, the last quiz, we already had a lot of information about our situation. And we'd also picked out what really mattered to us. In terms of how we need to go about finding the cost to make one wiper set. In the last quiz, we added one more piece of information to this list. And I'm going to write that out a little bit more formally now. We decided that we would represent this quantity right here, the cost to make one wiper set, by a variable. I'm going to pick the letter c for that variable. C is going to equal the cost to make 1 wiper set. To move one step closer to having a formal mathematical equation to describe our situation, I'd like to help us get some other numbers in our equation. Looking at this given information up here, can you tell me two numbers that equal, respectively, the cost to make 92 wiper sets, and the number of wiper sets that are made. This is going to help us with substitution, in the next step of the process. Our first piece of information up here tells us that 92 wiper sets were made in the time frame we're considering. So, number of wiper sets made equals 92. The next piece of information says, that the cost to make all of those wiper sets was $598. So, we can write 598 in the cost to make 92 wiper sets. This may seem sort of silly right now, but we've set ourselves up really well to move forward and come up with an equation that only has numbers and variables. No more words, thankfully. Word equations are really, really useful for helping us conceptualize problems, but they take a really long time to write out. So, we can simplify what we're doing, that's awesome. Now, we're at our final step in coming up with an equation for Grant. So, we can eventually help him figure out how much it cost to make one wiper set. We have four equations up here in our what we know section. And that may look like a lot if information to handle at once, but using substitution, we can pretty easily create one equation that involves all of these things. So look at this equation right here, the last word equation we came up with, and think about how these pieces of information fit in here. Substitute them into the right spots, and then type your final equation into this box. You can see here that the cost to make 92 wiper sets is equal to 598. But we also see in the last equation, that the cost to make 92 wiper sets is equal to the cost to make one wiper set times the number of wiper sets made. Now, when two quantities are both equal to the same thing, that means they're also equal to each other. That means we can say that 598 equals the cost to make one wiper set times the number of wiper sets made. That's actually really just another case of substitution. So, we can put a 598 in this spot, and we're going to continue to leave dollar signs out for now just for simplicity. You see the cost to make one wiper set, both here and the last equation, and also here that it's equal to c. So, let's substitute c in and the number wiper sets made is 92. Now, we have an equation. 598 equals c times 92. There's one slight adjustment that I'm going to make. I'm going to say that 598 equals 92c. So, remember that we normally write the coefficients, just plain numbers, at the front of terms and then the variables following them. So, look at that. After a lot of hard work, we finally have a lovely, concise equation. 598 equals 92c. I'm going to put a nice little box around that. Now we have to think. Why did we want to come up with that equation in the first place? Think back to our original problem. We are trying to figure out the cost to make one set of wiper blades. With our new equation, 598 equals 92c, that means finding out what number c needs to equal to make this equation true. So, what kind of equation are we dealing with? With here. Is this a conditional equation, is it an identity, or is this not an equation at all? This is a conditional equation. If we were to replace c with 1 for example, then our equation would say 598 equals 92 times 1. We could simplify that to say that 598 equals 92, but we know that that's not true, 598 is not equal to 92. That means that there are some values of c for which this equation is not true, so we know already that this is not an identity. I'll tell you right now, though, that this last choice, that this is not an equation, is incorrect. There is, in fact, one value for which this equation is true. Our next step is going to be to find that value. What then does c need to equal in order for this equation to work? What number do we need to put in the place of c to get this side of the equation to equal this side of the equation? Please type that number in right here. To find out what c needs to equal to make this equation true, we have to modify both sides of the equation so we get c by itself on one side of the equal sign, and everything else on the other side. Now, to insure that both sides of the equation actually remain equal to each other, so that we can legally continue to write equal signs in our equation, whatever we do to one side of the equation, we need to do to the other side as well. If these two things start out having the same value, but I, for example, add 4 to the left side and subtract 1 from the right side, then they can't possible equal to one another anymore, since I've changed them in different ways. We'll do plenty of practice with that concept in the coming lessons. For now though, let's think about what's preventing c from being by itself. We know that we want our final equation to look like c equals blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, something. So, it means we need to isolate c as my petitions like to say. Instead of having just c though, we have 92 times c. Remember, there's an invisible multiplication sign right here between our coefficient and our variable. We basically need to undo this multiplication, get rid of it, and the way to undo multiplication is to do some division. Since right now, c is being multiplied by 92, to have just c on its own, we need to divide by 92. But that also means, since I'm dividing on one side of the equation that I also need to divide on the other side. So, I also need to divide 598 by 92. Looking at the right side, 92c over 92 is, as we wished, just c. And on the left side, 598 divided by 92 is equal to the number 6 and a half. Just to be safe, it's always a good idea to check your answer if you know how to. In this case, we can just use substitution. Starting with our initial equation, 598 equals 92c, we can plug in our new value for c and see if this makes a true equation. Now, we've finally solved for c in our equation. We found c equals 6.5, wonderful. But, what does this actually mean for a situation with Grant? Please pick the best choice down here for how c equals 6.5 translates into information about our story. Just think back to what numbers in our equation each stood for what, and what we were looking for in the original problem. This question is basically asking what C stood for in our equation, or what our initial unknown was. And, as you might remember, that was this last choice, the cost for materials to make one set of wiper blades. You just got a little bit of practice solving for a variable in an equation. Thinking about what you actually did in the last problem or in the last several problems, what does solving an equation really mean? Check all the answers down here that you think are correct. All of these but one are correct. We saw in the problem we did for Grant that we have to change both sides of an equation in the same way to make sure that we maintain equality. So this last choice down here is correct. The answer we ended up with also was a way of expressing an unknown quantity in terms of other information that we had, which is this third choice. When we found that c equals 6.5, we could plug that number back into our original equation to make it a true equation. So, this first answer works as well. We could not, however, change one side of our equation. We could not, however, change one side of our equation in a different way than the other side. And we also didn't have in mind, in advance, what number we wanted the variable to equal. So, this answer right here, the second one, is not something that we want to select. Let's keep solving equations. When we're doing that, we can add, we can subtract, we can multiply, we can divide, or we can even do other operations. But whatever we do, we have to keep one rule in mind. No matter what, we have to do the same operation to both sides of the equation. If we don't do this, we're going to change the initial relationship that we started out with between our quantities. And the answer we get in the end, won't work with that equation. Let's start out with a pretty simple example, x plus 3 equals 12. Then, I'm going to draw two boxes down here, one for each side of the equation. And in each box, I would like you to write what step you think should happen next, to change either side of our equation, so we can eventually get x by itself. For now though, we're just going to write this one step in. So, for example, if you think that we should add 8 to the right-hand side, then write plus 8 in the box on the right. Or if you think we should divide by 2 on the left-hand side, please write a slash and 2, to symbolize divide by 2. Please remember that if you want to symbolize multiplication, do not use an x, rather use the star symbol and then, of course, whatever number you want. Right now the thing that is keeping x from being by itself on this side is this plus 3 right here. If that weren't part of the equation, if we just had for example, x equals 12; then we wouldn't have very much work to do. We'd already have a solution to our equation. However it is here, so we need to figure out how to get rid of it. So how do we undo addition? Subtraction. To make it so that nothing extra is added to the left side, we need to subtract 3 from the left side. That will make it so this entire side of our equation says x plus 3 minus 3. Now if we saw this as just an expression, we would know how to simplify that. The 3's would just cancel one another out since 3 minus 3 is 0 and we would have x plus 0 or just x. That's a super important step in moving forward in solving our equation. But wait, important. Whatever we do to the left hand side of the equation, we also have to do the right side, so we make sure that these 2 sides are still equal to one another, so I need to put in minus 3 here underneath the 12 as well. Now that we know we need to subtract 3 from both sides, what does x equal? We saw already, from simplifying expressions, that subtracting 3 from the left side is going to get x by itself. But how does this affect the right side? Please fill in this box right here with just one number that you think the right hand side should be equal to now. 12 minus 3 is 9. So, the right side has become 9 at the point when X is by itself. Our equation thus tells us that X equals 9. There is one more step though, we need to check our answer. That basically means confirming that the value of X we found actually makes this original equation, X plus 3 equals 12, true. So you need to substitute our 9 in the place of x in that first equation. And sure enough, if we take one more step, 9 plus 3 is in fact equal to 12. This means that our answer works. Let's do a few more questions like the last one. For each of these three equations, please take the second line of boxes to fill in the operation that you do on either side of the equation, in order to isolate x in the last step. In each of these teal boxes, please fill in your final answer for what you think x should equal. Then when you're done, make sure that you take that number and substitute it back into the original equation to make sure that it actually is a solution. In problem number one, 3x equals 12. x is not by itself yet because it's being multiplied by 3. The thing that undoes multiplication is division. So you need to divide by the number we're presently multiplying. So, I'm going to say we need to divide this entire side by 3. Now, whatever we do over here, we also need to do on the right side. Divide 12 by 3 as well. We know that 3x over 3 gives us just x, which is why we wanted to divide by 3 in the first place. So now, we need to carry it out on the right hand side. 12 over 3 is 4. So we get x equals 4. Checking our answer, we have 3 times 4 equals 12, and 3 times 4 does in fact equal 12. So we're in good shape. And number two, x is being divided by 3. In the last problem we undid multiplication with division. So here, we can undo division with multiplication. To undo division by 3, we need to multiply by that same number 3. You do this to both sides and 12 times 3 is 36. Checking, 36 over 3 is in fact equal to 12. Awesome. Another one done. Last but not least, x minus 3 equals 12. This problem is telling us that we're looking for a number so that if we took 3 away from that number, we would get 12. That means that number is 3 greater than 12 then. So, to undo this subtraction on the left hand side, we need to add 3. And over here, we get x equals 15. We will also confirm that 15 minus 3 equals 12. Great. The equations we deal with are going to start getting harder. But don't worry we're going to take everything gradually so we make sure that you're all comfortable with the basics. So here's just another equation for you to solve for x. Type your answer into this box. And the answer is x equals 6. However, there are two different ways that you could have solved this problem. We're going to talk about each of them. So, the one way you could have done this is started out by subtracting 18 from both sides. That would have left you with negative x equals negative 6. And then if you did the problem this way, what was the next step that you took in order to get x by itself? Please tape what you did to each side or what you would do to each side in these boxes right here. So there are actually two options here, two right answers. One way that you could move towards having x by itself would be to multiply each side by negative 1. The coefficient here in front of x is negative 1, so if we multiply it by negative 1, we get negative 1 times negative 1, which is just equal to positive 1, and that would leave us with x equal to 6. However, there's one other way you could do this. You could also have said that you would divide each side by negative 1. I'm just writing in here what you would type if this had been your answer. The reason this works is that the coefficient here, as we said, is negative 1. So we take negative 1 and divide by negative 1. We're just dividing a number by itself, and we get positive 1. So once again, that would leave us with just x by itself. And a positive 6 on the other side. So, both methods work. Here's another equation for you to solve, and just do it like you've done all the other ones. We see here that the term with an x in it has a coefficient of negative 3. So like we've done before, we just divide by that coefficient, and, of course, you do this at both sides. 12 divided by negative 3 is negative 4. so x equals negative 4. So we just saw the solution to this problem, but there's actually a slightly different way to think about solving it, an equivalent way. Neither one is more correct than the other, but it might be useful for some of you to think about it in this slightly different way. So, before I said that we would divide each side by negative 3, because the coefficient over here is negative 3. What if instead though, I said that I wanted you to multiply by some number on each side, and then you would still be left with the same answer of x equals negative 4. What number would you have to multiply both sides by in order to end up with the same answer? The number that you would fill in, in these boxes, is negative 1 3rd. So, instead of thinking of dividing each side by negative 3, you could instead think about multiplying each side by negative 1 3rd. Multiplying by negative 1 3rd is actually pretty much exactly the same as dividing by negative 3. The reason for this is because of fraction multiplication, and its relationship to division. So, if we have negative 3 time negative 1 3rd, we convert negative 3 to a fraction of negative 3 over 1. Then, if we just do some fraction multiplication, so you mutiply the top by the top and the bottom by the bottom, we end up with negative 3 times negative 1, or positive 3 over 1 times 3, which is just positive 3 again. And 3 over 3 is just 1. So, multiplying by fractions is just a different way to think about doing division. I want you to decide which way works better for you. Thinking of dividing this side by the coefficient that's in front of x, or multiplying by its reciprocal. Either way is completely fine. Here is a problem that may look slightly more complicated than what we've done before. But you know everything you need to know to solve it. And I'm even going to give you the first step that I'd like you to do. I want us to start out by dividing each side by 3. If you do this first step, then what do you end up with on either side of the equation? If we divide this entire left side of the equation by 3, then we just get rid of this coefficient in front of the parentheses and we end up with x plus 2. Over here, things get a little bit more complicated. Since we're dividing the whole side by 3, we have to divide each term by 3. 12 over 3 is 4 and negative 2x divided by 3 gives us minus 2 3rds x. Now I would like you to figure out what you need to do to either side of the equation to make it so that what we end up with next has all the terms of x on the left side of the equation, and no more terms with x on the right side. You can still have constant terms on the left side, and if you want to combine like terms in places where that's possible, you're totally open to that. But, you don't have to. In order to get rid of the term negative 2 3rd x on the right side of the equation, we need to, as always, do the opposite. Since 2 3rd x is being subtracted right now, we need instead to add it. This is going to leave us on the right side with just 4, since negative 2 3rd x plus positive 2 3rd x equals 0. So nothing is being added or subtracted from 4 anymore. Over on the left side, we now have x plus 2 plus 2 3rd x. If you'd have decided to take this one step further and combine these two like terms, the ones with the x to the 1st in them, you'd end up with 5 3rd x plus 2 equals 4. Just for future reference, I personally prefer to write fractions in their improper form instead of mixed sometimes. Just because that makes more sense in my head. Instead of 5 3rds, you also of course could have 1 and 2 3rds x. This is just my personal preference. This equation we have now 5/3x plus 2 equals 4, has a similar form to equations you've already solved in the past. So, I would like you to take two more steps or more if you need them, to get to a final answer for what x is equal to. Since solving this equation is starting to take up some space, I'm just going to do the rest of our work over here. But know that this is a continuation of the work that we've been doing over on the left side of the screen. So, I'll re-write what we had before, 5/3x plus 2 equals 4. We can't deal with this 5/3 yet and we can't get rid of it yet because it's only multiplying x, it's not multiplying 2 as well. Before we get to that, we need to get rid of the 2. To do that, we subtract 2 from each side, and then all we need to do is handle this coefficient. As you've done before, you can either divide by the coefficient itself, so divide by 5/3. But we know that when you divide by a fraction, it's the same as multiplying by the reciprocal. So, this is similar to what we talked about in the previous quiz, where we said that dividing by negative 3 was equivalent to multiplying by negative 1/3. The same thing is true here, division by 5/3 is equivalent to multiplication by 3/5. Either way, we'll get rid of the 5/3 in front of the x. And then 2 times 3/5 is just 6/5. And that's our final answer. x equals 6/5. Like with all of these problems, we can take 6/5 and substitute it back into the original equation we had, to check and make sure that both sides of the equation are actually equal to each other when we apply this condition of x equals 6 over 5. We got some great practice with adding and multiplying and dividing by fractions in the last quiz, or the last several quizzes, but there's actually a different way that you can do this problem that lets us avoid having to deal with a lot of those steps. This time, instead of starting out by dividing each side by 3, I'd like you to use your knowledge of the distributive property to just simplify the left side of the equation. If instead that's your first step, what do the two sides of the equation look like afterward? Starting out by distributing means that we want to distribute the multiplication by 3 to both terms inside the parentheses on the left side. So we end up with 3x plus 3 times 2 or 6. Since simplifying on the left side of the equation doesn't involve the right side of the equation at all, we don't change anything about this 12 minus 2x over here. We didn't actually add in or multiply in anything extra to the left side, so that means we don't need to change the right side at all. >From here, solving for x is pretty simple. What I would like you to do next is collect all of the terms with variables, so all of the terms with x, on the left side of the equation, and all the terms with constants on the right side of the equation. So, please use paper and pencil to do this. In fact, I'd like you to use paper and pencil to solve all of these equations and write out all the steps. And you can either choose to combine like terms on either side of the equation or you don't have to if you don't want to. And last but not least, I would like you to fill in your final answer for x in the bottom box. The first thing I'm going to do is get all of the x's on the left side of the equation. So that means getting rid of them on the right. Since 2x is being subtracted, we add, and then we have 5x plus 6 equals 12. Now, I need to move things around, so that all of the constants are on the right side. Subtracting 6 gives us 5x equals 6. All we have to do is divide both sides by 5. And since I ran out of room, I will write our final answer of, guess what, x equals 6 5ths. So in the end, we get the same answer that we did using the first method of starting out by dividing by 3. But as you can see, this takes a lot of your steps. Now, if everything on the right side of the equation had been divisible by three, then that method may have been a little bit easier. But in many cases, using the distributive property is going to make our lives simpler. Thinking about what lesson you may have learned from the last several quizzes, I'd like you to solve for x with this equation. 3 times the quantity 2x plus 4 equals 2 times the quantity x minus 5. Be sure that you write out everything on paper to make sure that you're not missing any steps. I'll begin by distributing these coefficients to what's inside the parentheses on either side of the equation. Now that I've done that, we have very pretty integer coefficients. And we don't have to worry about fractions at all. Now I'll get all the variables on the left side of the equation, and then I'll move all the constants over to the right. Last, I just divide by 4, or of course, equivalently, multiply by 1/4. And we get a final answer of x equals negative 22 over 4. But wait, this is not a fraction in simplest form. Both 22 and 4 are divisible by 2, so I can cancel those 2's out, and I end up with negative 11 over 2. So that, in fact, is the correct answer, x equals negative 11 over 2. I can look back at the top and plug this in to check. And in the end, I get negative 21 equals negative 21, so we are good to go with this answer. Awesome job. Just as a side note, you also could have written several other equivalent things for our answer, -11 over 2. You could have had negative 5 1/2, or you could also have written negative 5.5. Any of those three are correct. Here, we have another equation, and it looks like a situation in which we might want to start out by distributing on either side. However, there's something else that we can start out doing, that might actually make things easier for us in the end. If I want you to start out by doing some operation to both sides of the equation, what do you think the best choice for that would be? Just fill in what step you think we should take first in these two boxes. What I notice when I first look at this problem, is that both sides of the equation are divisible by 4. Now obviously, we divide the right side by 4, it's going to make things easier, since it's just getting rid of this coefficient. But this is also convenient to do on the left side. If we start out by dividing both sides by 4, what equation do we end up with? Since you want to divide this entire side by 4, but we know that 12 is going to multiply each of the terms inside the parentheses, you can conveniently just divide 12 by 4, which is something really nice. That just gives us 3 as our coefficient instead of 12. Over here, the 4 is canceled out and we just have 2x plus 7. I'd like you to solve this equation on a piece of paper, writing out all of your steps, and then just type in for me what your final answer for what x equals is. The next step is going to be to distribute the 3 to both terms over here on the left side, and leave the right side the same as it was. And then, I just need to collect all of my variables on one side and all of my constants on the other side. And we get a final answer of x equals 22. In all the problems we've done so far, it just so happened that it was most convenient for us to end up with variables on the left side and constants on the right side. However, that's not necessary. I could very easily have decided that I wanted my variables on the right side, instead of the left side. And started out here by subtracting 3x from both sides. I would have just had, eventually, to divide by a negative number. And that's not always my favorite thing to do. But in the future, feel free to put the constants and the variables on either side of the equation. Whatever is easiest for you. Now we have 2 3rds x plus 5 equals 17 minus x. I'm not going to walk you through this one step by step and I just want you to type in your final answer for me. But please take the time to use pencil and paper to write out all the steps to solve for x. The answer I got to this problem was 36 over 5. I can see though two very different methods of going about solving this. So, let's look at each of those. The first method would be to, right away, try to get all the variables on one side of the equation and all the constants on the other side. Then however, we have to deal with having a fractional coefficient for x for pretty much the entire problem. This isn't hard to deal with, it's just a question of what you prefer doing. To get rid of the fraction, I multiply by the reciprocal. This method does give us the current answer, 36 over 5. There is a possibility though that you really, really hate fractions. I mean, really hate them, like you don't want to deal with them at all. This method over here then is probably not quite your cup of tea. So, there is a different way that you go about solving this problem. And that way would be to start out by getting rid of the fraction that's over here on the left-hand side. So, what do I need to do on each side of the equation right now, in order to end up with the next version of it having no fractions in it, whatsoever? Please fill in that operation in these boxes. To figure out how to get rid of the fraction over here, let's focus on that term itself, 2 3rd x. I know that 2 3rd x is exactly the same as 2x divided by 3. So, it would be super convenient if I could just multiply this term by 3, since then it would no longer be written as a fraction, and I wouldn't have to go through this whole mess over here. I can't, however, just multiply this term by 3. I need to multiply this entire side of the equation by 3. If I'm going to put in anything from the outside into an equation, I need to do that to the entire side, and I need to do it to both sides. So, I'm going to multiply everything, both sides of the equation by 3. And it leaves us with a very pretty equation that only has integer, coefficients, and constants. >From here, solving is pretty straightforward. You can take a second to look at the steps that I did to come up with the same answer as we did using the first method, 36 over 5. Both of these are completely fine ways of solving this problem. It's just a matter of what you prefer doing. Which kind of math you enjoy doing more. Back in the world of glasses wipers, Grant just found out that the situation with manufacturing cost is not quite as simple as he thought. He not only has to pay for materials to build his wipers, which remember, we figured out that one wiper set cost $6.50 to buy. He not only has to pay for materials to build his wipers, which you'll recall, we figured out that materials for one wiper set costs $6.50, he also has to pay for the factory space that he's using. This is just a fixed amount, per month, of $1200. Taking this information into account, which one of these expressions do you think should replace the question mark to create an equation for the money that Grant spends each month? Even if Grant makes 0 glasses wipers, we know that he's going to have to pay $1,200 for rent each month. So, his expenses are going to start at $1,200 and they continue to increase incrementally for each wiper set he produces. So, we need to include both of these pieces of information in our equation. That means, that this answer choice, 6.5 times number of glasses wiper sets made, can't be right because it doesn't account for the monthly rent. The first choice here is actually not right either because this is saying that for every glasses wiper set that Grant makes, he'll pay $1,200. That would be pretty unfortunate for him, that would be a very, very expensive wiper business. And we also know that it costs $6.50 not $1,200 to make each wiper set. That leaves us with two more choices, both of which include 1,200 and 6.5 times the number of glasses wipers made. The difference between these is the sign here. If we pick this third answer choice right here, we'll be seeing that Grant's monthly expenses decrease because of this negative sign right here. Decrease for every glasses wiper sets he makes. This would mean that he would actually be making money off of paying for materials, which doesn't really make sense. That means this answer choice isn't right either. The last one is correct. Grant will spend a fixed amount of $1,200 and then, on top of that, he will spend $6.50 for every wiper set he made. Now let's use some numbers and variables. It turns out that after one month of just producing wipers, Grant had spent $5,685. I'd like you to think about the last equation that we came up with in the previous quiz, and write a new version of it, including all this information. I'd also like you to call the number of wiper sets made in a month, x. Please write your new equation for the situation in this box. And leave out any dollar signs that you might want to include for now. At the end of the quiz before this one, we said that a correct equation to describe this situation is that each month would be money Grant spends each month equals 6.5 times number of wiper sets made, plus 1200. All we need to do now is replace number of wiper sets made with x, and money Grant spends each month with $5685. So again, as we've done many times before, this is just a simple case of substitution. And we come up with an equation of 5,685 equals 6.5x plus 1,200. Now we have an equation that we know exactly how to handle. What does x need to equal to make this equation true? In other words, how many glasses wipers did Grant make last month? The first step we need to take to move toward getting x alone, is to subtract 1200 from both sides. Then, our last step is to divide both sides by 6.5. On the left side, we end up with 690. And on the right side, we have just x. So, that's our answer. Connecting this new piece of information back to our story, the solution to this equation tells us that Grant manufactured 690 glasses wiper sets in the first month. If you think back to where we were at the very beginning of this lesson, you've made a ton of progress in learning about how to solve equations. If there's anything that you don't feel 100% comfortable with right now, go back and re-watch the videos covering it. Awesome job. Remember Grant's chart that we saw for the first few days of glasses wiper production? We came up with an equation in the last lesson to describe this wiper manufacturing situation. If we call total number of wipers produced n and the number of days past d, can you write that equation again for me? As we figured out before, n equal 23d. With each day that passes, 23 new wipers will be added to the count of the total produced. So, as d increases by 1, n increases by 23. We figured out this equation in the last lesson and in the previous quiz by finding a pattern in this data right here that relates n to d. But in order to find patterns as easily as possible, we need to see the connection between data like we have in the table, mathematical descriptions like our equation right here, and to add to our list, visual representations, or graphs. For the situation we're dealing with, a graph might look something like this, but how do we make this? Well, we start by plotting points. Each row of data in our chart right here is a pair of numbers, one for d and one for n, and we plot those pairs of numbers on our graph. For the first point I would graph, I have the numbers one and 23. So if we're on our coordinate plane here, on the d-axis which is the horizontal one right here. I'd start at zero and move over one, and then, move up 23 on the n-axis, which is the vertical one. I could do the same thing for 2, 46. I count over from zero in the positive direction, two slots, one, two, and then up, 46. For pairs of sets of data, like we have in this situation, there's a special sort of notation that we use to help us get ready to graph. So, in this column, I have a set of values that d could equal. And then, in the column next to it, I have a set of values that n will equal, whenever d equals the values to the left. To show which values in either column fit together, I write them inside parentheses together with a comma in between. The reason this helps us with the graphing is that traditionally, the number that comes first corresponds to the horizontal value, or the horizontal coordinate of the point that we're going to draw. And the number that comes next corresponds to the vertical value of the point, or the vertical coordinate. So, thinking about how ordered pairs translate into graphing, where does the point 5,115 belong? To plot 5,115, we start with the horizontal coordinate. Beginning at 0, we count to the right 5. And then, we deal with the vertical coordinate. From there, we count up 115. And that brings us to this point. But from bringing back our graph, we can see another way that we could have figured this out. By looking at the line that we drew for the entire equation. Remember that on our table, we saw 5 and 115 as a pair of values for d and n that belong together. Since it was from that table that we developed our equation, and from our equation that we got to this graph, it makes sense the graph would fit the table. What's really cool about our line, though, is that our table only had the points that are highlighted here in orange. Those are all the data we were given. But now, with this whole line, we can start to make some extrapolation about data later on. Using this graph, how many glasses wiper sets will have been produced by the end of seven days? Since days are represented on the horizontal axis on this graph, what this question is really asking is what vertical coordinate goes with the horizontal coordinate of 7 on this graph. So we start by counting over 7 horizontally, and then moving up to find the point on the graph that has a horizontal coordinate of 7. Then we just need to see what vertical coordinate this corresponds to. This is right above the line representing 160 for n, so that means the answer must be 161. Remember to be super careful about which axis represents which variable. What's even more interesting is comparing this to our equation. If we let d equal 7 here, or just substitute in 7 for d, and then solve for n, we get 161, which is exactly the point that we found on the graph. The equation and the graph are just different ways of describing the same thing, so of course, they have to agree. One thing to notice about the last equation we had was that it had not just one variable but 2, n and d. Now thinking about the situation in which we develop this equation, what do you think we can say about what an equation with two variables can do? Pick as many as these answer down here as you think makes sense. As it turns out, all of these are correct. Equations with two variables can be used to describe a number of situations, and depending on what concepts or items we're dealing with, any or all these could be true. The more two variable equations we see, and you'll be seeing a lot of them, the stronger your intuition for dealing with them will become. In the last lesson we dealt with Grant's monthly expenses. We found out that he pays $1,200 each month in rent and that every wipers that he bills costs him $6.5o cents to make. Let's suppose that this time we don't know how much money Grant spends total, and instead, we're going to represent that with a variable y. Let's also let x equal the total number of wiper sets he makes. So using this information, can you write an equation that relates y to x? We can start out by writing y and equals sign, since we know that we want an equation for the total amount of money that Grant spends a month, and that's y. We also know that no matter how productive his business is, he's going to pay $1200 in rent. And this is just a constant amount that he's going to spend, regardless how much else he spends on other things. Things. So, you can write 1,200 as a constant and then a plus sign. He'll spend $6.50 on every single wiper blade he makes. So, we need to add 6.5x to the end of our equation. Voila, we have and equation with 2 variables. Now what can we do with this equation? Well, we can find out how Grant's monthly expenses change when he produces a different number of wiper sets. By plugging in values of x, and then solving for y. But remember, I'm really lazy, and that would take a lot of time and effort. There has to be a better way. As we saw earlier, representing the data or an equation so we can just see the answer is a great way to have a ton of x and y values right in front of our eyes. So, which of these four graphs do you think might correctly represent this equation that we just came up with? This is only the very beginning of our discussion of graphs, so just take a guess. As labelled on each graph, the horizontal axis represents the x values, and the vertical axis represents the y values. From our equation, we know that even if no wipers were made or x equals 0, Grant would still have to spend $1,200, which would make y equal 100. That gives us the point 0,1200. x equals zero along the y-axis here. We need to find the graph that intersects the y-axis at y equals 1,200. And that is this graph right here. The trend in the rest of the graph makes sense as well. But every pair of glasses wipers that Grant makes, he spends more money because our x value increases. From the equation, we can see that as x gets bigger, y also gets bigger. So, the graph needs to move up and to the right. To draw the last graph or the last several graphs I had to use a set of axis. One for each variable we have in our equation. The standard way to set this up is to label the horizontal axis the x axis. This demarcates how are x values change. And the vertical axis is the y axis, showing how y values change. Now, every point on this plane is associated with both a value in the horizontal direction, an x value, and a value in the vertical direction, a y value. I also mentioned earlier that we identify points on our coordinate plane with a special notation. The first number listed is our x-coordinate, or our horizontal position. And the second number in the ordered pair is the y-coordinate or the vertical position of the point. The areas that you see on the ends of each axis represent continuation, so the x axis continues all the way out to infinity and also in the other direction, all the way out to negative infinity. And the same is true of the y axis so this coordinate plane are really able to represent, if we want to take as much time and paper as possible, any combination of 2 real numbers. And then of course we can depict it graphically. There is 1 single point on this graph however, 1 point out of that infinite number of points, that's really special. And we call it the origin. Which point of all these ones highlighted in teal do you think is special enough to have such an illustrious title as the origin? Click where you think it is. The origin is the point 0,0, which is right here, right in the center of our axis. And, of course, we can write it as an ordered pair as well. Both the x-coordinate and the y-coordinate are equal to 0. We saw earlier that this is the point from which we started counting our other coordinates. So, this is sort of like homebase. It's our reference point for figuring out distances to all other points on our plane. Now, let's use your understanding of how ordered pairs are related to the x and y axes. Please find each of these points on this graph over here, and then in the box next to the ordered pair, fill in the letter that corresponds to the point that you identified it with. The first thing that's important to remember is that the first coordinate we have in any ordered pair is the horizontal position of the point, and the second coordinate is the vertical position. So, let's start with the first point as an example. We have an x coordinate of 1. So we move from the origin over to the right in a positive direction 1, and a y-coordinate of 2, so we move up two, that's point b. For the second one, we have negative 2 as our x value so starting at the origin, we count to the left in the negative direction 1, 2. And then, the y value is 1 so we count up one. So, that's point d. And we can do the same process for every other point on here. So here, so here are the final answers, luckily none of my letters are the same in any of the boxes cause that would indicate that we had made a mistake. Every pair has a unique position on the coordinate plane. And in the same way, every position on the coordinate plane has a unique ordered pair This time, I've drawn 4 points on our coordinate plane and I've labelled each one of them with a letter. Next to each letter down here, I'd like you to write in the coordinates for the point that it corresponds to. For any of these points I'm going to start at the origin, count over in either direction, as many slots as I need to horizontally. And then, count either up or down. So it's going to give me first the x value, and then the y value of that point. So for point a, I need to count over 1, 2, 3, 4. I can see that this is the vertical line that a lies on, and then I need to come up this line toward a, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. So a must be the point for 7. I can do the same thing for b, starting at the origin. I count in the negative direction, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 6. So my x coordinate is negative 6. And then from there, I count up to b, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. For point c, once again the x value is negative, since it's to the left of the origin, 1, 2, 3, 4. So negative 4. And then c has a negative y value, since it's below the x axis. So from here I need to count down negative 1, negative 2, negative 3, negative 4. And last but not least, d has a positive x value, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and a negative y value, negative 1, 2. So it's the point 6, negative 2. In preparation for his upcoming glasses expo, Grant needs to figure out how to ship all of his wipers and the glasses that they're being modeled on. Unfortunately, he's not going to have the nozzles ready in time but his investors are still confident that they'll be plenty of excitement about the wipers on their own. Grant's just worried about how to get the wipers to the expo. He's planning on bringing all of his model glasses wipers to the expo in a suitcase, but his concern is that the suitcase will be overweight. When his suitcase is empty it weighs 7 pounds, and each glasses wiper set, along with its protective packaging, only weighs 1 half a pound, or 0.5 pounds. Can you find a relationship between the number of glasses wiper sets that Grant packs and the total weight of his suitcase? Please use x for the number of wiper sets and y for the total weight. We want to end up with an equation for the total weight of the suitcase. And we know that, that is y. So, I'll start by writing y equals something, something that we need to figure out. Well, the total weight needs to equal the weight of the suitcase itself, and then also the weight of the glasses wipers that Grant puts in it. However, we know that the weight of the empty suitcase is just 7 pounds. So, we can just substitute in 7 in that slot in the equation. The total weight of all the wiper sets will just be equal to the weight of one wiper set, which is 0.5 pounds, times the number of wiper sets packed, which is x. So, we can substitute that into our equation as well. And in the end, we have y equals 7 plus 0.5 x. We've come up with this wonderful equation, y equals 7 plus 0.5x. But my question for you is, what values am I allowed plug in for x in this equation? Strictly mathematically speaking, what is x allowed to equal here? Can it be any real number, any real number but 0, any real number but negative 3.5, only integer values or only whole numbers? The answer is that x can equal any real number. We can pick any of the kinds of numbers that we've talked about, plug them in for x, and then get a value for y. Think back to what x and y stood for when we originally developed this equation to help with Grant's suitcase problem. Considering that, does your answer for what it makes sense to plug in for x here change? When we think about Grant's situation with his suitcase, x can really only equal a whole number. Remember that x stood for the number of wiper sets that Grant has packed in his suitcase. And since wiper sets are objects in the world, they're countable things. You can't really have half of a wiper set, or I guess you could, but Grant's only taking complete sets with him. Now, when I say that wiper sets can be counted, you might automatically think of the natural numbers. Since these are the counting numbers, 1, 2, 3, 4 and so on. But in principle, Grant could also pack zero glasses wipers. He could just not bring any wipers to the expo, probably wouldn't be that smart, but he could do it. And if we take this set of natural numbers and add zero to it, we get the whole numbers. Now that we just said that x in the suitcase situation, can only equal whole numbers, how does that affect y? With that restricted set of values that x can equal, what will y end up equalling? y will be greater than or equal to 7. We know that the smallest value x can take on will be zero, since that's the fewest number of glasses wipers Grant can put in his suitcase. And if he does pack that minimum number, and we plug zero in for x right here, this term will equal zero, and y will just equal 7. Every other number that we could plug in for x would be greater than 0, so y would be greater than 7. Like we've done before, let's figure out some points to plot, so we can eventually graph this equation. Since we can fit a lot of glasses wipers in a suitcase, we're going to count them up by tens. I'd like you to find the corresponding weight of this suitcase or y value for each x value. I already done one of them for you just to make your life a little bit easier. And our answers are 7 if x equals 0, 12 if x equals 10, 17 for x equals 20, 27 for x equals 40, and 32 if x equals 50. With our filled out table, what do you notice about the y values as the x values increase? What numbers belong here according to the table? Every time x increases by 10, y increases by 5. To get from 0 to 10, we have to add 10. And from 10 to 20, add 10 again, and so on and so forth for the rest of the x values. We're stepping by 10 every time. On the y side however, each number is 5 greater than the last one. So, the change from table entry to table entry, is 10 in the x column, but 5 in the y column. Now that we've talked a bit about how our variables x and y are related in this equation we've developed for the total weight of the suitcase depending on the number of glasses wiper sets that Grant puts in it, I think that the next step to further understand the relationship here, is to graph our equation. Now, I know that I've done some graphing for the class already on the tablet. But since I really want to encourage you to graph on physical, actual graph paper, I'm going to just show you a demo of how I do that. Justmake sure that you've got the basics for setting up a graph and drawing a line totally down. So, I clearly has to switch pens since this one doesn't write on actual paper. Materials that are important for graphing include graphing paper, which is just paper with lines on it, that create a grid. A ruler, like this lovely one right here. And a pencil. I'm super picky about using pencils and not pens for graphing. I think it's really important so that you can make sure that you can fix any mistakes that you've made by erasing. The xy table we created earlier is going to be really useful for helping us graph points. But before we can graph those points, we need to set up our coordinate plane. So, we need to draw a set of axes, we can plot these points on. So, start out by lining the ruler up with one of the vertical lines on the sheet of paper. Over to the left-hand side, since all of the values that we need to graph in this graph are both positive in x and y. Sometimes, this won't be the case and you'll need to think about where to put your axes, and how far to draw the x-axis in both directions and the y-axis in both directions, so that you can fit all the important points on your graph. But for now, I have drawn a y-axis. And now, I line up the ruler horizontally, you can notice that it's positioned quite toward the bottom of the y-axis that I've drawn, since I don't really need any negative y values for this. And once I've got the ruler situated properly, in relation to this horizontal line r ight here, I can draw my x-axis. Wonderful, so now I have a y-axis and an x-axis. What's missing right now is some arrows. I know that the y-axis and the x-axis both extend infinitely in both directions, they both go from negative infinity to positive infinity. I also like to label the origin with a 0, and I label each axis as well with a variable it corresponds to. Great, now I have some axis. However, let's look at what numbers we actually need to plot. We need to plot from 0 to 50 in x and from 7 to 32 in y. We've got 0 laid out, that's great. But to go all the way to 50, I clearly can't have each one of these boxes stand for 1 on the x-axis or on the y-axis either. So, we need to make a scale. Since I have quite a few boxes here, and I'm only graphing 6 points, I need to make every grid length on the x-axis stand for 5. And just for simplicity, I'll label every two grids with a 10. So, 10, 20, and so on, and so forth. I can do the same thing or a similar thing for the y-axis. Here, I only need to go up to 32 though, so I can probably space my numbers out a little bit more. I've labeled my y-axis that every 2 grid links stands for 5. And, of course, I've labeled it all the way up. Now, that we have our axes set up, we can actually start graphing points. This is sort of a tricky example to start with, so I'm sort of glad that I picked it. Because you'll notice that since there are numbers that end in 7 and in 2 on the y values, these aren't going to correspond exactly to grid lengths here. So, this is a great chance to see that sometimes when you're graphing, you don't have points that end up exactly where lines on the grid cross. You have to just be very careful and estimate as closely as you possibly can. To remind us of the coordinate or ordered pair notation that we'll often see when we're moving to graphs, I've written all the data in the table here in point notation. Okay, let's actually graph. First point, 0 7, so we start at 0 on the x-axis and move up 7 in y. The point halfway between 5 and 10 is 7 and a half, so we're going to be right below that. And I'll put a point right there. We have 10,12 so we go to 10 on the x, and 12, which will be just below this line right here, which is 12 and a half. And we continue just like this. Hm, something looks kind of funny to me. Let's check with a ruler to see if all of these points lie on a single straight line. Clearly, this one doesn't, so I must have done something wrong. It's really, really easy when you're graphing. Two, when you move over on the x-axis and then up to your y-coordinate, accidentally switch your hand position horizontally, and add to a graph in their own point. This is why we just need to check our work very carefully. Okay. So, that was the point 40 27,. So, I'll just graph that one again. 40, very carefully following this line up to the 27 mark, that looks better than the other point. So, you can see I must have just shifted my hand to right when I was graphing. Okay. Now, that I have all my points, let's make a line through them. Rulers are really helpful but you also have to make sure that you're using them as best you can. I like to put the point of my pencil on a point and then line the ruler up with the pencil tip, just make sure that the ruler's actually going to be in line with the points. I can do the same thing with the last point I'm going to graph. And now, I actually connect the points. Get a beautiful line. Wonderful. Now, since conceivably, Grant could pack more than 50 pairs of glasses wipers in his suitcase, I'm going to draw and arrow on the end of the line right here. This indicates that the graph could continue increasing in the x-direction and, in this case, the y-direction as well, past this last point that we graphed. I'm not going to put one over on this end though because for the purposes of the dealer we're dealing with, we're not going to have negative x values. Grant can't pack a negative number of glasses wipers in his bag. This would be very different though, if we were graphing other kind s of equations that don't necessarily correspond to things that can't have negative quantities. So, with most graphs, you'll see an arrow on the other end of the line as well. We'll see that in later examples. Continuing in the vein of graphing equations, let's look at a different equation. y equals 3x minus 5. To move toward eventually graphing this, let's start by throwing out this xy table. I've already given you, lucky for you, all of the x values and for each of them, I'd like you to find the corresponding y value. So here are our answers. The y values that go with these x values are negative 14, negative 11, negative 8, negative 5, negative 2, 1, and 4. Thinking about this new table of values we created, can you complete this sentence? For the equation y equals 3 x minus 5, when x changes by some number, y changes by some other number. Fill in these two boxes. Comparing each x value to the one that came before it, as we move down our table, every entry is one greater than the one that came before it. If we do the same thing to the y side of the table, we notice that every value is three greater than the one before it. So, when x changes by 1, positive 1, y changes by positive 3. In order to set up our x and y axes to graph this equation right here, we need to think about how long we want each of them to be or what values you want them to extend through. Of course, we know that when we graph a set of x and y axes, we put arrows in the end to indicate that they actually extend infinitely long in each direction, but I am just interested in finding out what range of values for both x and y we should display on our graph. The goal here is to pick a range for x and possibly a different range for y, so that all of the values we have on our table are shown on our graph. Since on our table, x varies from negative 3 to 3, we need to make sure that whatever we pick over here contains all those values. 0 to 10 and negative 10 to 0 are both out, and although negative 20 to 10 does contain all of these values, it's way bigger than this set, so I think the best choice is from negative 5 to 5. Our y values range from negative 14 to 4, which makes negative 20 to 10 the only choice that works for y. Finally, the time has come. We're going to graph y equals 3 x minus 5. I'm going to set up our x and y axis according to these ranges of values that you just picked. So, I've drawn our basic x and y cooridinates. That we are eventually, pretty soon, I promise, going to draw these points on. But remember, we need to label the crosshatches on either axis, so that we show what the scale of each axis is. So, I'm going to put a box here, a box here, box here, and a box here. These are tiny boxes. Yours will show up bigger on the screen, I promise. And I'd like you to tell me for these two boxes what the x-coordinate of each one is, and for these two boxes what the y-coordinate is for each. This is going to show, basically, how much moving from here to here on the y-axis counts as we're counting, and how much moving from here to here on the x-axis counts. I get rid of those little boxes just to make our whole graph area look a little bit cleaner. Since our x values need to range from negative five to five on this portion of the axis that we've drawn, each of these grid lengths needs to count for one. So, when we step from zero, one step over, we need to label that one, two, three, and so on. And you see we get to five on the positive edge of the axis. Counting in the negative direction, we had the same scale. So, we have negative 1, negative 2. And you can see, I even made a mistake when I was drawing these axes. I made our x-axis one longer than it needed to be, which doesn't really hurt us, so I'm going to leave it as is. I apologize for my lack of perfection here. Now, in the y-direction, we need to be able to go from positive 10 all the way down to negative 20. We have 5 boxes up here and 10 boxes down here. So, that means we need to count by 2s with each step of teh graph. So, moving from 0 up one box, is going to actually be stepping 2 in the y-direction and then down into the same scale again. Now, again, the point of creating these scales and these limited links for either access is really just to make our lives easier a little bit when we're graphing. The x and y values for this graph do extend, actually, all the way from negative infinity to positive infinity. We're only going to graph part of that infinitely long line, in particular, the part that shows these values on this graph. And now, finally, I would like you to actually graph this. Now, please first, just take a second, get out a piece of graph paper, create the same set of axis. I kind of hope you already did that before on your own anyway. And then, on that set of axis, graph the points that we have on the table. After you've got that done, connect them using a ruler with a line. After you've done that, come back to this quiz on the computer and select all of the boxes on this grid where you think that these points belong. Now that you've had a chance to graph, it's my turn. Let's see if I can do this right. Because it works better for my brain, I've transferred all the data on the table to coordinate notation on the right-hand side of the table. That just helps me graph better, personally. So, I'm going to plot these points. We step over 3 in the negative direction on the x-axis, and down 14. Now, you want to make sure that the points, when you graph them on graph paper, as we saw in the previous example, are as accurately placed as possible. So luckily, for the scale that we've chosen for this graph and this equation, all of these points should lie directly on intersection points of vertical and horizontal lines on the graph paper. So, that's awesome. Negative 2, negative 11, and you can see I just made a mistake again. I forgot that we were counting by two's in the y direction, and I placed a point at 2,2 instead of 2,1. So, I've graphed a fair number of graphs in my life. So, if you make a mistake doing this, it's not a big deal at all. We just have to make sure we correct ourselves. And lastly, we have 3,4. Okay, great. These look to me like they're all in a pretty straight line, so let's get our ruler to make sure. I think we're safe. Let's connect them. And we have a gorgeous line that I will now draw an arrow on either end of. Remember, this arrow shows this line is extending forever out in either direction, continuing its pattern for all values of x. I've also drawn an arrow on either end of this line to show that it extends forever out in both directions. Thinking about all of your recent graphing experiences, what is the minimum points that we need to draw a straight line? In addition to this, what is the minimum number of points we need if we want to draw a straight line but then also have one extra point to check that the line we drew is the line we actually wanted to draw? To draw a straight line, we only need 2 points. We have point a and we have some other point, then the shortest path between them, is just a straight line. If we had just 1 point on its own, we wouldn't know what direction to draw the line in, unless we had another point that we knew we needed to aim toward. If we want to check that this actually the line that we were looking for, however, we need 1 more point that supposedly lies on the line, to check that this is the correct line. So, we need 3 points, if we want to check our original line. So, maybe this point right here, is the third point that I had in addition to these two. We can see if the original line I was starting to draw goes through this point as well. And voila, we have one continuous beautiful line. Let's say, for example, that I had 3 points, and I thought that they all lay on the same line, because I thought that I had done my xy table correctly. Unfortunately, when I bring my ruler into the picture, there is no way that I can get a line that I would draw along my ruler to contain all 3 of these points. So clearly, one of my coordinates must be messed up. So, a lot of the time, just to be safe, it's great to have 3 points that you think satisfy your equation, just to make sure your graph is correct. Grant is finally on the plane on his way to the Expo. He's curious about how far his plane is traveling though. He's not super familiar with the geography around the city where the Expo is, it's called something like Udacity, maybe its called Udacity. Hm, I don't know. However, he does know that Udacity is about 700 miles north of some other city that he knows a bit more about, and that city's only about 200 miles east of his town. To help him visualize the most efficient path for the plane to take, Grant wants to draw a picture, but a picture that's a bit more exact than the silly one I've drawn right here. If we say that Grant's hometown is located at the origin on some coordinate plane, and we split our coordinate plane up into chunks of square miles, what should the coordinates of Udacity be, and the coordinates of the other city be? We know that this other city is directly east of Grant's hometown. So, we're not moving in the up and down or north and south direction at all when we go from here to here. We're only moving horizontally, which only changes the x-coordinate. We're moving over 200 miles so the x-coordinate becomes 200. Since you've moved 200 miles over from zero in the positive direction, and the y coordinate doesn't change at all. It stays as zero. We know that Udacity is directly north of this other city. So, if we move from the other city up to Udacity, all that we're changing is the y-coordinate, since we're only moving vertically. That means that the horizontal coordinate stays the same, but it needs to be the coordinate of this other city. So, Udacity is located at 200, and it's y-coordinate will be 0 plus 700, or 700. Looking at this amateur map we've made, we can notice something actually pretty interesting,. These 3 cities on our map form a triangle. However, this isn't just any triangle. This is a right triangle, this angle right here is a 90-degree angle Now that we know that Grant's airplane map contains a right triangle, let's think more about right triangles in general. I've done three different right triangles for you right here. And below each one, I've written one equation or in these two cases two equations that relate the lengths of their sides to each other. For each triangle, I've labeled a as the shortest side, b as the second shortest side, and c as the longest side link. Which equation or set of equations down here will hold true for all right triangles? The answer is this equation right here, which goes with this triangle, a squared plus b squared equals c squared. These other two right triangles are a special kinds of right triangles and the equations right here that show the proporions between their side lengths are particular to them individually and they don't apply to all right triangles. But, now we do have a super important piece of information that we can use, not just to talk about these three right triangles, but also the one in Grant's situation and any other ones moving forward. This equation, a squared plus b squared equals c squared, relating the side lengths of any right triangle together is called the Pythagorean theorem. Julie mentioned this way back in the very first lesson of this course. So, no big deal if you didn't remember it or its name. We'll keep using it in the future, though. We just talked about how the Pythagorean theoem says that if you have a right triangle, and you square the shortest side, and add to that the square of the second shortest side, then what you get as the sum is the square of the longest side of the triangle. The longest side of a right triangle is also known as the hypoteneuse, that's a word you may have heard before. What I would like you to tell me is how long the hypoteneus of this triangle is. Should this question mark be replaced by 225, 15, 12, 9 root 3, 9 root 2, or 9? The correct answer is 15. We know, from the Pythagorean Theorem, that the sum of the squares of either of the shorter sides of the triangle is equal the square of the hypotenuse. So, in the case of this triangle, that means that we have 9 squared plus 12 squared equals something squared. We want to find out what c is. Simplifying the left side of our equation gives us 225 equals c squared. Now it's really easy at this point to think, oh my gosh, I found our answer. But remember, we're not looking for c squared, we're looking for just c on its own. We just want the length of this side, not its square. So how do we handle this? How do I get rid of this exponent of 2? Well, we need to talk a little bit more about exponents, so we can figure out how to deal with this. What we need to do is to take the square root of both sides. You've probably worked with square roots before and the power of the square root is just transform, in this case, c squared to just c. It also changes 225 into 15. We'll elaborate on square roots in just a minute. Thinking about the last problem you just did and your knowledge of exponents, what do you think a square root gives you? We have some number n and I take the square root of it, what is the new number that we get? The correct choice is this third one. For any number n, the square root of n is equivalent to some number that when multiplied by itself, gives us n. I know that this is a lot of words, so let's just break that down. Squaring a number or taking it to the second power, we know means, multiplying it by itself. So, if we have 3 squared, that's just two threes multiplied together. But I know that if I take the square root of 3 squared, then I can get just the 3 back. So, taking a square root can undo this repeated multiplication. The square root of any number then like n, for example, tells us what we need to multiply by itself to get n. Since we know there's some connection between square roots and exponents, let's take a minute to make sure you're still comfortable with exponents themselves. Please tell me what y to the 7th times y to the negative 3rd is. y to the 7th times y to the negative 3rd is just y to the 4th power. Remember that shortcut we learned before, for any numbers n, a, and b, n to the a times n to the b is just equal to n to the a plus b power. So here, all we need to do is add our exponents together, 7 minus 3 is equal to 4. We've been thinking about squaring things a lot with those right triangles. So what if we add x cubed squared? What is that equal to? The thing that we want to square here, or multiply by itself, is x cubed. So, all we have here is just x cubed times x cubed. And what is that? That's just x to the 6 power. So I'm noticing something pretty interesting in here. A pattern that relates these numbers together. What if I want to know this time what y squared to the fourth power is? Y squared to the 4th is just 4y squareds all multiplied together. And that, using our shortcut is just y to the 2 plus 2 plus 2 power which is just y to the 8th. Here are the problems you did in the last couple of quizzes. Did you notice a pattern at all while you were doing them? If I have a general statement, x to the a all to the b power, how could I express this with a single exponent? In other words, what happens if I want to get rid of the parentheses around the x to the a here? The answer is that the exponent here should be a times b or just ab. This expression over here says multiply x to the a times itself b number of times, but we also know that x to the power of a tells us to take x, and multiply it by itself a number of times. If we wrote each of these factors of x to the a as a bunch of x's multiplied together, we would just get a giant string of x's all multiplied together. Since we're taking b groups of a things multiplied together, the total number of x's we have is a times b. We said earlier that the square root of the number n is just a number that when multiplied by itself, gives us n. Let's pick a real number to make this more concrete for ourselves, though. Right now, I am feeling 3. 3 is the number that I want to use right now. But what number times itself gives us 3? Well, we just said that was the whole point of square roots. So clearly, the square root of 3 times the square root of 3 equals 3. But this is interesting. The square root of 3 times the square root of 3 is just the square root of 3 squared. So, what does this mean for square roots in terms of exponents? What if I wanted to rewrite this as 3 to some power, all of that squared, equals 3. What number belongs in this box? We need to put a 1 half here. Remember that the guideline we just talked about said that if we have some number x to the power a and all of that taken to the power of b, that's just equal to x to the power of a times b. We can't forget that there's an invisible 1 as the exponent of the number 3. So, the power that belongs right here must be whatever we need to multiply by 2 to get 1, and that number is 1 half. This also makes sense in the context of another rule that you know, x to the a times x to the b is equal to x to the a plus b. 3 to the 1 half times 3 to the 1 half is just equal to 3 to the 1 half plus 1 half or 3 to the 1. I think this is pretty cool. We just learned that the square root of some number n can be written in exponent form as n to the 1 half power. That's great, that's super useful. What if instead though, I have something y to the 5th, and I want to do something to this using exponents that I end up with just y by itself, what exponent belongs in this box? The number that we need to multiply five by to give us one is just 1 5th. So that's the exponent that belongs right here. What number squared equals 64? As much as it might surprise you, there are actually two different numbers that satisfy this. I'd like you to tell me both of them please. Well, we know that 8 times 8 equals 64. So 8 is definitely one of the answers, but, there's one more. Negative 8 times negative 8 is also equal to 64. If we want to expound upon why this is true, we can write out that each negative 8 is equal to negative 1 times 8. Use the commutative property to rearrange all those factors, and since negative 1 times negative 1 equals positive 1, we still end up with positive 64, so our other answer is negative 8. So this tells us that there are actually two square roots for any number n. There's the positive version, which of course squared gives us n but there's also the negative version. Which, also 1 squared, gives us n. You will notice, however, that although there's a negative sign written outside the negative square root. There's not a positive sign written outside the positive version. The positive version of the square root is implied to equal a positive number. For example, if we wrote the square root of 64, with no sign symbol out in front, this would be implied to equal positive 8. If we wanted to show that negative 8 times itself equals 64 then we'll write the square root sign at 64 but we'd also need to put a negative sign out in front of it. The square root of a number without the negative sign in front is called the principal square root of that number. In this case, n. So, 8 is the principal square root of 64. So considering this, what is the principal square root of 81? Write it in this box please. We know that there are two numbers when multiplied by themselves that equal 81. We know that 9 times 9 equals 81 and we also know that negative 9 times negative 9 equals 81. The way we would denote these with radical signs is different, though. We get 9, positive 9, if we just write the square root of 81 and we get negative 9 if we write negative square root 81. The principal square root is a square root that doesn't have a negative sign out in front of it, the positive square root, so the answer is 9. The principle square root of any number is a positive number, that times itself, equals that number. We've already seen that square roots can be expressed equivalently with either radical signs or with exponents of one half, but as a matter of fact, all exponent of 1 over n, where n is a natural number, can be expressed with a radical sign But we need to differentiate between this radical sign and this radical sign, or all the different radical signs we would use as this number n changes. To do this we put a little number next to the radical sign. To denote x to the 1/3 or the cube root of x, for example, you put a little 3 by the radical sign. The question I have for you is, if we want to express the nth root of x, what symbol belongs next to the radical sign? We need to put a little n next to our radical sign to show the nth root of x or x to the 1 over n power. So if we write the 5th root of x for example, that's just equal to x to the 1 5th, and similarly, for the 8th root of x. Square roots then, are the one xception to our rule. It's like there's an invisible two written next to the radical sign here, but according to convention, we just don't write any number for square roots. You've been using MathQuill for the past few lessons, and hopefully you've gotten used to entering exponents and fractions using it, making your equations and expressions look super pretty. But now that we're starting to use radicals, we need to use MathQuill in a new way. I already showed you earlier how to enter square roots in MathQuill, you type backslash sqrt space, and then whatever goes inside. The MathQuill also lets us write nthroots. So, it allows us to type radical signs and then type whatever number we want for the index, and then, of course, enter whatever we want underneath the radical. To write a radical sign when you need to write a number you just write backslash nthroot space, and then whatever number you want to go in this spot up here. To get out of typing in the index spot, to typing underneath the radical sign again, you need to type a right arrow key. So, try out these first two where you can use some instructions on what to type. And then, for your two challenge problems, I'd like you to experiment combining the different functionalities in MathQuill that we've been using with this new set of tools. So, we have, for example, in this term, exponents combined with radicals and fractions all in one. So, if you can do this, you're an official MathQuill pro. Just experiment, just have fun to see how incredibly powerful this tool is. I'd already given you instructions for how to type these two right here, the square root of 2 and the cubed root of x. But then, as you can see for these two slightly more difficult ones, when you write out all the keys you have to type in MathQuill, it looks super complicated. But hopefully, if you found it's a little more intuitive when you're actually typing it, especially because you've already had practice using MathQuill before. Please remember that when you type parentheses in MathQuill, it actually fills in the second parentheses when you type the first one, so you don't have to retype at the end. What if we have the 4th root of x cubed? What's a way to write that with only one exponent? Our answer is 3 4th. We can rewrite what's inside the parenthesis here as x to the 1 4th power, that's what we want to cubed. From here, we can use one of those lovely shortcuts we talked about earlier. This is the same as x to the 3 times 1 over 4, which is the same as x to the 3 4th. How can we rewrite 5xy cubed, all of that squared? I want you to rewrite this without any parentheses involved. The thing that we're squaring here is everything inside the parentheses. So, we just want to multiply 5xy cubed by itself. If we expand this multiplication and then simplify, we end up with 25x squared y to the 6th. What we can see is that our end result here, takes each factor from the original quantity inside parentheses and squares it. So, 5 squared is 25, x squared is x squared, y cubed squared is y to the 6th. So, you can think of this as the exponent distributing to every single factor that's multiplied together inside the term. Now, it is time for a, get ready, a challenge problem, yay. I'm going to write some stars for you. Anyway, please tell me what the cube root of negative 8x to the 6th power is. Let's start by changing this radical sign to a power. Cube roots give us powers of 1 over 3. Notice that I put the parentheses around the entire quantity, negative 8x to the 6th since the radical sign extended over all of those factors. Now, all we need to do is what we did in the last quiz, distribute this exponent to both of the factors in the term. That gives us negative 8 to the 1 3rd times x to the 6th to the 1 3rd. The number that we need to multiply by itself 3 times to get negative 8 is negative 2. So, that's our coefficient. And the cube root of x to the 6th is just x squared. So, our final answer is negative 2x squared. Let's think back way, way back to right triangles. Let's say that I have a right triangle whose two shorter legs are both equal to the square root of 2 times x. What then, is the length of the hypotenuse of this triangle or the length of this longest side? Be super careful about which factors are under the radical sign. To make our Algebra a little bit easier, I'm going to call the length of the hypotenuse l for just a moment. We're just going to use this other variable to describe it. We know from the Pythagorean Theorem, that if I square each of these sides and add them together, I'll get l squared. Then, we just need to simplify this left side of the equation. I could distribute the exponent of 2 to all of the factors and then add like terms. Since we want to get l by itself, we need to take the square root of both sides. Or in other words, I need to take both sides to the 1 half power. On the right side I just get l and on the left side, I get 2x. So, our final answer is, that the length of the hypotenuse equals 2x. Now, where were we with Grant? Oh, that's right. He was on an airplane, going from his hometown to this wonderful, wonderful city called Udacity. We reduced that map to a right triangle, just like this one. Now, can you tell me how long the flight path from his hometown to Udacity is? Please round to the nearest whole number. For the moment I'm going to call the length of our flight path just the letter d. That will make dealing with it in equations much simpler. The Pythagorean theorem says that because this is a right triangle, we can say that 200 squared plus 700 squared equals d squared. Simplifying that gives us 530,000 equals d squared. In order to get d by itself, what do we need to do? Just take the square root of both sides. Taking the square root of d squared, just leaves us with d. The square root of 530,000 gives us a number with a ton of decimal places, but when we round it, we get 728, which, since we're rounding, I will say is about equal to d. Since our flight is really kind of approximate any way, we can add to it that this length from Grant's hometown to Udacity is about 728 miles. What kind of number was the exact answer to the last problem, the non-rounded one? This is an irrational number. And because it's an irrational number, just like all the other numbers we've talked about, it's also a real number. We know this because the square root of 530,000 has an infinitely long decimal with no repeating pattern in it. In fact, any root of some integer, m, is either an integer or an irrational number. That's just kind of a fun fact for you to know, and something useful for you to check answers later on. Over the course this lesson, we discover a super powerful tool because of Grant's airplane situation. We can now find the distance between any two points on a graph. And, I don't just mean points that we can count squares on graph paper to find the distance between. I mean, any two points on a coordinate plane. Think about how you used triangles, right triangles in particular, to find the distance from Grant's hometown to the city Udacity. Can you do something similar to find the distances between these points on this graph? To make your life easier, I only want you to find the distance from A to B, from B to C, from C to D and from D to A. Please write your answers in exact form. In other words, I don't want you to round. Instead, I would like you to write them in whatever form you need to write them to represent the actual exact number that each length is equal to. To help you do this, I'd like to remind you that if you want to enter a square root sign, using MathQuill, you need to type the keys back \sqrt, and then the space bar. Then, you can use your arrow keys to move your cursor around. What we need to see here in the graph is a bunch of triangles. So, if we let each side length, or each of these distances that we're looking for, be the hypotenuse of a right triangle, then we can as we've done so many times before, use the Pythagorean theorem to find the length of that side. Conveniently, since we're using graph paper, made up of these little tiny squares, we have right angles all over the place. That made drawing these right triangles super simple. If you look at the opposite ends of one of these side lengths, we can just draw lines along the lines that are already given to us by the graph paper. And the intersect to help us form the right triangle. Then, we just need to figure out the length of each of these legs for each of these triangles. Let's look at leg AB as an example for how to deal with the other three triangles on here. We need to find out the length of either of the two shorter legs in order to find out the hypotenuse. So, we could just count one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Seven is the length of this side. We'll do the same thing for this side. This is five. In looking at this modified version of the Pythagorean theorem, we can just say that the length of AB, this hypotenuse, is the square root of 7 squared plus 5 squared. Simplifying that gives us the square root of 74. Once we find the lengths of the legs of all of the other right triangles, calculating their hypotenuses is also easy. And so, at long last, here are our final answers. The length of AB is the square root of 74, BC, square root of 180, CD is the square root of 40, and DA is the square root of 130. We just calculated that the exact length of segment BC was the square root of 180. But there's actually a different way that we can write this. What if I remind you that 180 is actually equal to 36 times 5? So, the square root of 180 is equal to the square root of the quantity 36 times 5. We also know, though, that 36 is the same as 6 squared. Taking this into account, can you think of a different way to write the length of BC, so that there's one number under a radical sign and another number multiplied by that that's not under the radical anymore? When we rewrite things like the square root of 180, instead as 6 times the square root of 5. We say that we've written this radical expression in simplest form. What this means is that the number that's still under the radical sign, or 5 in our case, doesn't have any factors that can be written in the form n squared, where n here is some rational number. Since the square root of 40 was one of the other side links in our quadrilateral earlier, I would like you to try writing it in its simplest form. We know that 40 is equal to 4 times 10. So, we can replace the number under the radical with that expression instead. We know that this radical sign here represents a 1 half power outside this entire expression. So, the radical sign itself should just distribute to the factors inside this term. That means, we can write that this is equal to the square root of 4 times the square root of 10. The square root of 4 is just 2. And if we factorize 10, we see that it's just equal to 5 times 2. These are the prime factors of 10. Neither of these is a square. So , that means that we can just leave the square root of 10 as the square root of 10. This is the simplest form of the square root of 40. Now that you know how to write expressions with square roots in simplest radical form, can you do it with an expression that has a cube root in it instead? The answer is 3 cube root 2. Let's see how to get that. 54 is just equal to 27 times 2. We can rewrite this as an expression with exponents and then distribute the exponent to the factors. 27 is equal to 3 to the 3rd power. So, this reduces to 3 times 2 to the 1 3rd power or just 3 cube root 2. Thinking about how you rewrote the cube root expression in the last quiz in simplest radical form, can you come up with a general rule for an expression with any sort of root in it? If we have a radical expression a times the nthroot of b, when will it be written in simplest radical form? a times the nth root of b is written in simplest radical form, as long as b doesn't have any factors that can be written as powers greater than or equal to n, the number that tells us what kind of root this is. The reason for this is, if we have something like the 4th root of 7 to the 6 power, we can rewrite that as the 4th root of 7 to the 4th times 7 to the 2nd. This first factor will just reduce as a result of the radical to be 7 on its own, and all that will be left under the radical sign, or rather the 4th root sign will be 7 squared. And of course, we can also rewrite this as 7 times the 4th root of 49. Now, where were we with Grant? Oh, that's right, he was on the plane. He's on the plane going from home to the Cxpo in the city Udacity. But Grant is super impatient and he would really love to find out where the halfway point between his hometown and Udacity is. He found out earlier that the exact distance between these 2 points is the square root of 530,000, in miles, of course. So, he just measure half of the square root of 530000 along this line, that doesn't seem like a very exact or very easy to do either. But just by looking at our graph, I'd like you to give me an estimate for the midpoint is. That is, what if a coordinates of the point that's halfway between these 2 points along this line? The midpoint is located right here. The coordinates of that point are 100 and 350. When I figured this out the first time, I basically eyeballed where I thought halfway along the line was, and then figure out the coordinates of that point. But is there a way that we can use the coordinates of the two points on the line that we already know to find the coordinates of the point halfway between them? In fact, there is. We know that home is located at 0,0, the origin, and the Udacity is located at 200 700,. Going halfway between these points, means going both halfway in the x-direction and halfway in the y-direction. So, let's look at those coordinates individually. For the x-coordinate, we start at 0 and we want to go halfway to 200, half of the distance between 0 and 200 is 100. So, you just go over that much. That automatically gives us our x-coordinate. The y-coordinate works in pretty much the same way. Our initial y-coordinate of home is 0, we want to go up 700, to where Udacity located vertically. This distance is 700 miles, so half of 700 is 350. So to get from this expression to this expression, you could either first place your cursor right here just to the left of this x and inside this opening parenthesis, and get rid of the inner set parenthesis first. Or alternatively, you could have started with the outer parenthesis, too. You put your cursor here and then press Delete. And then, of course, go back to the inner one and do the same thing. Order here does not matter as long as you're following this rule. Remember that MathQuill is the tool that's allowing us to write many of the things in this class really beautifully. So, and we want you to enter things like x to the 4th over 2. It actually looks like this in the spot where you input things. But as great and powerful as MathQuill is, there are a couple of little idiosyncratic things that you should know about how to enter things. Especially when it comes to using parentheses. You may have noticed that if you type one parentheses, one opening parentheses, that is, in a text box where MathQuill is being implemented, then the closing parentheses appears as well. And you'll be typing in this spot in the box in between them. This generally makes your life much easier. But in certain situations, it can be kind of tricky. One of these interesting, and potentially troublesome features, is that once you have a set of parentheses, and then something written inside them, if you want to delete the parentheses but leave whatever you've written inside, then you can't have your cursor sitting out here and then press Delete because that will delete the entire expression. So let's say you'd written 26 m inside parentheses. If you put your cursor right here and press Delete or Backspace, everything would disappear. If instead, however, of having the cursor out here to the right of the entire expression in the parentheses, you put the cursor just inside of opening parentheses, so just to the right of it. Then, you can press Delete or Backspace or whatever your computer uses to get rid of things before the cursor. And that'll leave you with whatever was inside parentheses originally. I'd like you to get some practice in how this works using this expression right here. So once it comes time for you to take this quiz, I'd like you to type in 3 plus open parenthesis 2 x y minus 7 open parenthesis x z, and then two close parenthesis. And then, in as few keystrokes as possible, change this to just 3 plus 2 x y minus 7 x z. So, this is just giving you a chance to figure out how to delete parentheses without deleting expressions that were inside of them. Now at certain points in the course you may need to enter coordinate pairs using of course typical coordinate notation with parenthesis around the outside of them that contain fractions for the coordinate values. This is actually a little bit tricky to do in mathquill so we are going to talk about who you do this. I'm going to tell you exactly how to type this out. So let's say that we wanted to type. So, let's say that this is the order pair that we want to type. 3 over 4, negative 1 and a half. I'm going to tell you exactly what keys to press. And then what will appear as you type each one of them. So, the first thing we have is this open parentheses. But when you type that, both parentheses appear. The next step is to type a forward slash. At which point, the space inside the two parentheses, will turn into the input for a fraction. So there will be a line, and a space for you to enter the numerator and the denominator. Your cursor at this point will be in the numerator. And as unintuitive as it might seem, what we want to do, is to get the cursor to be right here, inside the first parentheses. But before we have the option to type inside the fraction. So you just need to type a left arrow key to move the cursor over here. Then you can type a comma, which will be the comma between our two coordinates. At this point your cursor will be right here, between the comma and the fraction spot. So you need to type the left arrow key to move it back here. Now we just need to create the first coordinate. Then you need to type a forward slash again. Which will create another spot for a fraction to be input. And then you can use the arrow keys as you normally would between fractions to go to each numerator and denominator and enter the values that you want to. So you can see that whats happening here, in terms of the order that things appeared in over here depending on what I told you to type, that you have to actually create the spot for the Second coordinate as a fraction before you create the first one. If you try to create one fraction and then put a comma, it's not going to work. Another option would be for you to create two separate fraction spots and then move to the spot between the two of them and then put a comma. This is just a way that works really easily for me. But of course, as always, you can experiment and figure out what works best for you. So, thinking about how you create 2 coordinates that are each fractions. I'd like you to try out typing each of these coordinate pairs. First one we have is 3 4ths, negative 1 half. Then we have 1, 2 over 7. And then we have negative 1 8th, 3. So just play around with these, and see if you can get comfortable with this format. So, the thing about entering these points, is that there are actually a ton of different ways you can do it. I simply wanted to give you one method that you can use that's pretty reliable for creating different fraction slots in ordered pairs. So, for our first point, 3 quarters comma negative 1 half, you could, of course, use this method that I showed you up here. But you could also just enter this from left to right and it should turn out just like this. So, for some ordered pairs involving fractions, things aren't really that complicated. However, this one right here is a pretty difficult one, I think. If you try, for example, to enter to everything in here from left to right, here's what you'll end up with, you open parenthesis and then a 1 comma 2 as a denominator over 7. That's definitely not what we want. So here, I think it's easiest if you first enter the fraction 2 over 7 then go backwards and write the 1 and the comma. Negative 1 over 8 comma 3 is another one that's pretty simple to enter. You can also do this from left to right, or you can use the method of inserting fractions that's where you need them first. So, the moral of the story is, when your typing things using MathQuill, you always need to be super careful to check what you're typing and make sure that it's actually what you want to be typing. Also, the more practice the better. So, just keep trying things like this out, any chance you get. What if I give you two random points, 3, 15 and 10, negative 2. Can you find the halfway point between them, the midpoint? The midpoint between 3,15 and 10, negative 2 is the point 6.5, 6.5. Of course, you could write this as a fraction instead of a decimal too, if you wanted to. But how do we get that? Well, in order to get halfway from here to here, we know that we need to go half as far both horizontally and vertically. Let's once again start with the horizontal distance, or the distance in x. Our x coordinates or our given points are 3 and 10. So halfway between 3 and 10 is what? Well, the distance from 3 to 10 is just 10 minus 3. So that means that halfway between 10 and 3 is just 10 minus 3 over 2. And simplifying that gives us 7 halfs, or 3 and a half. This, however, is not our coordinate. This is just the distance that we need to move from one point toward the other point. So to figure out our actual coordinate, we need to start at one of our points and walk toward the other point this far. So our x coordinate is just equal to 3 plus 7 halves, which is just 13 over 2, or 6.5. Let's do the same thing for the y coordinate. Our y coordinates are 15 and negative 2. If we use our handy dandy grid here to count how far this distance actually is, we can see that it is 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, plus 1 more to be even with this point, 17. So we each move 17 boxes vertically to get from negative 2 to 15. Half of that is just 17 over 2 or 8 and a half. But again, this is not actually our Y coordinate. This is just the distance vertically between these 2 points. To find the coordinate, we need to start at one of these points, and then move this vertical distance toward the other. So if we start at 15, we need to move down 8 and a half, since negative 2 is below 15. And this gives us a y coordinate of 13 over 2. Let's graph this point just as a sanity check. 6 point 5 6 point 5 should be right about here. And if we draw a line from our first point to our second point, we see that this point does in fact lie on the line, and looks half way between them. This might be a little bit tricky, but what is the midpoint between 2 generic points with coordinates a,b and c,d? Please try to simplify each of your coordinates in your answer, so each one is just a single fraction. Our answer, interestingly enough is, a plus c over 2, b plus d over 2. To figure out how we got to this final answer, lets start again with the x coordinate of our midpoint. Our x coordinates of the two original points are a and c. And lets say they want to start at a and move halfway towards c. First we find half the distance between these two coordinates. Which is the distance, c minus a, just divided by 2. Then you need to shift that over graphically so that we're starting at point a, instead of starting at the origin. So we need to tack on a distance in x of a. I said that I wanted your answer as a single fraction, so we need to simplify this a little bit. Putting this all over one common denominator gives us c minus a plus 2a, all over 2. And in the end we get c plus a over 2, Or of course because of commutivity, a plus c over two. We do the same exact thing for our y co-ordinate except of course we use the y values of these two points. And we end up with d plus b over 2. Together, these two coordinates give us our final midpoint. Thinking about our answer to the last quiz for a general way of writing the midpoint between any two points, what do you think is a good way to sum up what we're actually doing when we find that? To find the midpoint between two points, do we find half the distance in both directions? Do we add the corresponding coordinates, the x-coordinates and the y-coordinates of the two original points together? Do we take the average of those corresponding coordinates, or do we just find the distance between the two points? When we find the midpoint between two points, we're really just taking the average of their x-coordinates and their y-coordinates. In the quiz before this one, we found that the midpoint between points a,b and cd is just a plus c over 2 b plus d over 2. This x-coordinate here of the midpoint, is just the average of a and c. And the same is true of the y-coordinate for b and d. So, thinking of finding midpoint this way, as just averaging x and y coordinates, sometimes makes the math feel a little more intuitive and easier to remember how to do. Now that we know that finding a midpoint is as simple as averaging x coordinates and y coordinates, let's go back to this quadrilateral we, we are looking at earlier. Can you find the midpoint of each side? Don't forget to write these as points, so with coordinates Here are the midpoints that I found using our averaging method. So just like you saw in the previous quiz, all we need to do to find each midpoint is take the average of the x coordinates of the points that lies between, and then also, the average of the y coordinates of the points that lies between. Since you just calculated the midpoints of each of the sides of this quadrilateral, I've now plotted them for you on our coordinate plane. I think you'll find something pretty interesting though. What happens if I connect all these midpoints together? Hm, we get 8 different quadrilateral. Think for a second about these line segments joining these points and the shape that we formed. Here's a box for you to just record your thoughts about our new shape. Thank you for jotting down your notes. I just wanted to get your brain jogging before we do some calculations, and figure out how to quantify what's special about this black figure here. Well, since we've been talking about distances a lot, we might as well find the length of each side of this new black quadrilateral. This time, however, we're just going to use these coordinates of the points that we know. So, what did we use before? Well, we used the distance between the x-coordinates, and the distance between the y-coordinates, squared each of those distances, added them together, and then found the positive square root of that quantity. Interesting. So, you can formalize this process for any two points, where one of the points has the coordinates that I'll call x1 y1,. And the other point has coordinates x2 and y2. I want to use these subscripts here because that lets me still show that these two coordinates are in fact x-coordinates, and these ones are y-coordinates, but, that they belong to different points. Now that we have this handy formula, for the distance between any two points, we can calculate distances just knowing coordinates. That means, we don't need to rely on our picture anymore. Although, of course, it will be helpful in the future to go back and reference it. We know that we can use this formula to calculate the distance between any two points, so let's try it for each of the points that creates the outline of our black quadrilateral, on the visual that I've now conveniently taken away from you. The notation here that we're using is similar to what we did before. MN, for example, is the distance between M and N, two points on our list. You can consider this just two letters that form a single variable. So, NP is the distance between N and P, PQ is the distance between P and Q, and so on. Let's start out by calculating the distance between M and N, or the distance that we're just calling MN. I'm going to take the square root of a bunch of stuff. Our x-coordinates are 11 half and 2, and when you take the distance between them, then we square that. We add to this the same thing for the y-coordinates. And then, we just simplify. After some more simplification, our final answer is the square root of 218 divided by 2. Interestingly enough, when we calculate the other's three side lengths, we get that PQ and MN have the same length, and also that NP and QM m have the same length. Let's keep this in mind for discussion slightly later on. Let's analyse this formula, the distance formula, for a second. If I switch the order of x2 and x1 in this formula or of y2 and y1 in this formula, is that going to change what I end up getting? And the answer is no. Since each of these distances is going to be squared, it doesn't matter which order we have the coordinates in. If instead we had x1 minus x2 and then wanted to square that, well, this is the same as negative 1 times x2 minus x1. And if we square all of that, we end up getting back to x2 minus x1, the whole quantity squared since when we squared negative 1, we get a positive 1. So, it doesn't matter which point you start with and which point you end with when you're finding the distance between two points. We just found out that the opposite sides of our quadrilateral in black here, are the same length. MN is equal to PQ and NP is equal to QM. But is there anything else that is special about this black shape? You may remember from Geometry that any quadrilateral whose opposite sides are equal to one another is called a parallelogram. So, the opposite sides of a parallelogram are congruent to one another or of equal length, but they are also something else. They are parallel to one another. But how can we tell they're parallel, mathematically? And what does being parallel really mean? That's what we're going to look at next. Now that we know that m, n, p, q is a parallelogram, and that its opposite sides are parallel to one another, what do you think that the term parallel refers to? Are two things that are parallel of equal length? Do they have the same slope? Is the way that they relate change in y to change in x the same? Or do they intersect the same segments? It looks to me like the slope of these opposite sides is the same. Slope, however, as we'll soon talk about, has to do with how the change in y and the change in x are related. Any two lines that have the same slope are parallel. They will never touch one another. They'll always just be the same distance apart along their entire length. So, what really is slope? Well, here's a line connecting two points, 2,3 and 7,6. If I were to tell you that the slope of this line is 3 over 5, then what do you think a good general definition of slope would be? Is the slope of a line how many units to the right are moved for every unit that the line goes up? Is it how many units the line moves up for every unit it moves to the right? Is it the number of units moved vertically plus the number of units moved horizontally? Or, is it lastly, the number of units moved vertically minus the number of units moved horizontally? The slope is how many units a line shifts upward for every single unit that it moves to the right. For the segment joining these two points right here, you see that as we move from one point to the other, we're translating 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 horizontally to move five to the right, and then up, 1, 2, 3. The ratio of this vertical distance traveled versus this horizontal distance travelled is 3 over 5. In the same, way if we look at what happen vertically when we move 1 unit to the right, we can see that we move up by this distance, which is 3 5th of 1 unit. Earlier on, we looked at the graph of y equals 3 x minus 5. We saw that we got this line. Thinking about your new understanding of what the slope of a line is, can you tell me how many units up, for every unit across to the right, this line goes? It can be helpful to start at a point on the line and draw a right triangle, first moving out to the right and then up, to help you figure this out. This line goes 3 units up for every unit that it goes to the right. If we look at this point right here, for example, and we step 1 unit to the right, we need to count up 1, 2, 3 units before we hit the graph again. We can draw a right triangle going over 1 and up 3. This then, is the slope of this line. As a quick check that you know how to find the slope of a line from its graph, please tell what the slope of this line is? The answer is 5 over 2. Let's say I want to start at this point right here, the point 0,1. I can find another point that lies on this line that's easy to pick out, like this one right here, point 2,6 and figure out that we count over one, two, to the right, and then up from there, one, two, three, four, five. So we take five and divide it by two and that gives us the slope. We can also see that if we wanted to step over one to the right, we would need to step up 2 and a half units to be back on the line and 2 and a half is equivalent to 5 halves. We know one way to articulate what we do to find the slope of a line, but there are definitely other ways that we can think about this as well. Please pick the best one of these choices. When we try to find the slope of a line, do we divide the x coordinate by the y coordinate, divide the increase in x by the increase in y, divide the increase in y by the increase in x, or multiply the increase in y by the increase in x? The answer is this third one. We notice here that we had to move up five units everytime we moved over two units, and since our slope is 5 halves, we're dividing 5, the increase in y, by 2 which is the increase in x. We just said that the slope of a line is equal to its increase in the y direction divided by its increase in the x direction. Here are two new points that I've drawn for us, 1,7 and 5,3 and I've drawn the line that runs through both of them. Notice that instead of pointing up and to the right, this line is pointing down to the right and this affects the slope of this line in some way. Thinking about that, what can we say about the slope of this line? Is it a fraction, is it positive, is it negative, is it not defined, or is it zero? The slope of this line right here is negative. Notice that slope as we defined it, is the increase in y divided by the increase in x. But as x increases over here on our graph, y actually steps downward. We can't draw a triangle like we did before, or rather, we can draw a triangle, just a different triangle. We have to notice that as we walk over to the right, we walk down instead of up. This means that our slope is negative instead of positive. Now that we talked a little bit about what this slope might be like, let's actually find it. Please first tell me what the increase in x between these two points is, and also the increase in y, and then from that, figure out the slope. As we move from the point 1,7 to the point 5,3, our x-coordinate moves to the right, 1, 2, 3, 4. This is the positive direction so we can say that our increase in x is positive 4. Now y, on the other hand, as we move from here to here, has to step down, 1, 2, 3, 4. So, we actually have a decrease of 4 and y. A decrease is the same as a negative increase. So, our increase in y is negative 4. We know the slope is just the increase in y divided by the increase in x, so our slope is negative 4 over 4 or negative 1. Let's look at a general situation now, then, for a point a,b and a point with coordinates c,d Now, can you use these coordinate names to tell me what the slope of this line is? We already know that, in general, the slope of a line is the increase in y for every increase in x. So, the change in y here is going to be d minus b, and the change in x is going to be c minus a. So that is a general answer for how to find the slope of a line between any two points. When answering the last quiz, i called these points very different letter names. But when we look at this formula for slope, it's not really clear how d and b, or c and a are related to one another. I think that one thing that might help us is if we renamed the coordinates of these points, so that they indicated what each coordinate actually is . Instead of A,B I'm going to call this coordinate x1, y1, and this point is going to become x2,y2. Using this new notation, we can change our formula for slope. I like this form much better. To me it's way more clear now that this quantity on top is the difference between two y coordinates, and this one in the denominator is the difference between our two x coordinates. Now note that the y coordinate of the second point comes first in the numerator, and the x coordinate, the second point, comes first in the denominator. The question I have for you now, is, does it matter which point, when I find in the slope between points I call x1, y1, and which one, I call x2, y2. In other words, if I switch the position of the ones and twos in this equation for slope, would I get the same slope as my answer? And the answer is no. It does not matter which point we use in which slot in our equation provided that we are consistent about the coordinates of a single point being the same position in both the numerator and the denominator. You can imagine that if we started out instead with y1 minus y2 over x1 minus x2, it's actually pretty easy to show that this is equal to our original equation for slope. We just pull out a factor of a negative 1 from both the numerator and the denominator. You can see that those factors would cancel one another out. Well, you'll be left with y2 minus y1 over x2 minus x1, which was just our otriginal equation for slope. Here, I have 2 point, 3,2 and 7,10. Now, I've drawn a line between them and I'd like you to tell me just like you have before, what the slope of this line segment is. Try calculating this, first, using the coordinates of the top point, 7,10, as the one that comes first in our equation for slope, and then try calculating a second way using these coordinates as the ones that come first in the denominator and in the numerator. The first way I'm going to try to do this is to start with the coordinates of this point. So, I have this y value, 10 minus the y value of this point, which is 2, and I divide that by the x value of the top point minus the x value of the lower point. Simplifying, just gives me 2. Now, let's try starting with the coordinates from the lower point first. We'll take that y value, 2, and subtract 10, and switch the coordinates in the denominator as well. So, we have 3 minus 7. Now, instead of positive 8 over positive 4, we have negative 8 over negative 4. But in the end, this reduces to the same answer of 2. So, we can see that it doesn't matter which points coordinates we put first, as long as we're consistent. Here are a bunch of lines that I've drawn on one coordinate plane. You'll notice that I've labeled each of these lines with a name. We have v, w, x, y, and z. And I'd like you to pick which of these categories each of these lines falls into. For some of these lines, there may be more than one category. But before I elaborate on any of these answers in our grid, let's remember what the general formula for slope is. We can find two points along any of these lines, and then compare them using this formula to find the slope. The first line, v, is a really interesting case. If we pick any two points along it, let's say negative 7,3 and negative 3,3. You'll notice that they have the same y-coordinate, they have the same vertical position. That means that our numerator of our slope formula is going to be zero, since we'll just have 3 minus 3. Zero divided by any number except zero is just zero. So, the slope of v is just zero. w is another really interesting case. It's this vertical line right here. Although, the points along w have a wide variety of y values, they all have exactly the same x value. x equals negative 5 for any point we could place along this line. So, let's just pick 2 again. Maybe this point, negative 5,6, and this point negative 5, negative 1. Then, we have negative 1 minus 6 over negative 5 plus 5. But, this quantity on the bottom is going to give us zero and we know that we can't divide by zero. That is just not allowed, at least not for right now. So, what we say is that the slope is undefined. Line x is pointing up to the right, so its slope is positive. And if we step over one to the right, we have to step up more than one to rejoin our line. So, its slope is not a fraction. It's greater than one. The line y also has a positive slope. But, if we pick a point and move over one to the right, we have to move less than one unit up to rejoin the graph. So, this slope is a fraction. Line z points down to the right, so as we saw before, its slope is negative. I think it's worth looking into vertical and horizontal lines a little bit more, just because we haven't really seen them that much yet. Please tell me which description matches the vertical line and which description matches horizontal lines. Let's start with our vertical line and just pick 2 random points along it. So, here's a point, and here's a point. The coordinates of this line point are 2,7. And this is the point 2, negative 3. The coordinate these 2 points on the vertical line share is the x-coordinate. So I guess, all points on a vertical line have the same x-coordinate. Let's do the same thing for a horizontal line. We have the point negative 8, negative 5, and another point 5, negative 5. These two points, along the horizontal line, share their y value. So, I guess, all points along horizontal lines have the same y value. Think about what conclusions we drew about the coordinates of vertical and horizontal lines in the last quiz. Try to use that information to figure out what equation describes all the points along line a, and what equation describes all the points along line b. This is definitely tricky, so if you have trouble with it, no big deal at all. The equation for line A is x equals 2, and the equation for line B is y equals negative 5. Let's talk about why. Remember that along any vertical line, every single point has the same x value. The y values are going to range everywhere negative infinity all the way to positive infinity. But the x one it stays constant along that entire range. So, this is the only equation that we can write that fits every point along that line. There's a similar deal for line B and other horizontal lines. But regarding their y-coordinates instead of their x-coordinates. We said that every point along a horizontal line has the same y value. Its x values go from negative infinity to positive infinity. But the only equation that accurately describes every point along the line is y equals negative 5. Vertical and horizontal lines then have sort of special equations because they only have one variable in them. This is pretty different from equations of other lines we've seen, like for example y equals 3 x minus 2. Here we have an x and y in the same equation. What these equations show is, respectively, that for vertical lines, this relation with x is going to be true regardless of y value. And for horizontal lines, this equation involving y is going to be true regardless of x value, or for any x value. Last time, we heard from Grant, a long, long time ago, he was on the plane going from his hometown to Udacity where the glasses expo was. He made a map of his flight path. We found its length, we found the midpoint between these 2 points, so on and so forth. But now, we've been talking about slope, I would like you to tell me the slope of this line. From earlier we developed this general equation where we use the coordinates of 2 points along a line to find the slope of that line. Now the coordinates of home are (0,0) and the coordinates of the city Udacity on the map are (200,700), not forgetting the scale of either axis. I'm going to pick the coordinates of this point to be x2 and y2, and this one to be x1 and y1. Let's plug them in. We have 700 minus 0 over 200 minus 0. Well that's pretty simple. It's just 700 over 200. If we cancel out a common factor of 100, we find that the slope of this line is 7 over 2. Since Garrett really wants to know how to find out the coordinates of any point along this route, we'll eventually want to incorporate this slope into an equation for this line, but we're not there quite yet. Great job on this really difficult lesson. The people at the Expo love Grant's product, his glasses wipers. But they find that washing their glasses with water just isn't enough. There needs to be some sort of cleaning solution that will be the solution to their problem. Grant decides to get on it right away. He contacts the three biggest lens cleaning solution vendors and asks them how much they charge to buy their solution in bulk. He needs this stuff fast. So, he asks how much it would be to get these samples rush ordered. Grant takes careful notes when he's on the phone with these companies. Once he's done, he has the following information. Brand number 1 charges $10 per gallon of solution plus a $100 rush order fee. The second brand charges $8 a gallon plus a $200 rush order fee. And the third brand charges $10 per gallon with a $150 rush order fee. Now, Grant has some decisions to make. He needs to figure out how much solution he needs to buy and who he should buy it from. Grant expects that each order he receives will require about 0.1 gallons of solution, or 1/10 of a gallon of solution. Grant also wants to have 10 extra gallons of solution on hand, just in case of emergency. What we're looking for now is an equation that describes this situation. For this equation, let's allow n to equal the number of expected orders of solution, and let's also let g equal the total number of gallons of solution that Grant should order. Which of the five equations that I've written down here relates the number of expected orders n, to the number of gallons, g, that Grant should order? The first option, g equals .1n plus 10, is the best. The first term .1n represents the gallons of solution Grant needs in order to meet the number of orders he's expecting, and the 10 tacked on the end represents the 10 extra gallons he wants to have on hand. So, Grant expects to have 900 total orders by the end of the month. According to this equation then, how many gallons of solution should he buy? The question tells us that Grant expects to get 900 orders. And this translates in the problem, n equals 900. If we want to find out how much solution he wants to buy, which means solving for g, when n equals 900, we get g equals 0.1 times 900, our new value for n plus 10. This is equal to 100 gallons. Now going back to the 3 pricing schemes for the 3 different cleaning solution companies, we want to figure out how much each of these solutions would cost Grant's cleaning glasses company if he were to buy them. You're going to want an equation for each solution option so that he can compare how much he would spend depending on how many gallons of solution he wants to buy. Let's start by creating a general word equation that we can use later to create specific equations for each of these brands. Here are some quantities. Gallons of solution ordered, price per gallon, shipping time, total cost, rush order fee, and distance shipped. I'd like you to place the letter corresponding to one of these quantities in each of these boxes. To create an equation that you think fits a situation Grant is up against. The letters that belong here are, in order from left to right, D, B, A, and E. So let me translate that into a word equation by inserting these in the proper spots. We end up with total cost equals price per gallon, times number of gallons ordered, Plus the rush order fee. Remember, that Grant will have to pay the rush order fee, no matter how many gallons he orders. But the more gallons he orders, the more he will pay total, since he pays by the gallon. Remember the information we were given about the three different brands of cleaning solution. Using this information, can you create an equation in the form of the word equation we just came up with, but make it so that it only involves numbers and variables? For those variables, I'd like you to let total cost equal y, and the number of gallons ordered equal x. So, create a different equation for each company. For the first brand, we have y equals 10x plus 100. All we had to do to get this was substitute the new variables into their proper places, place the price per gallon with that listed under the brand, and do the same thing with the rush order fee. If we go through the same process, we get y equals 8x plus 200, we get y equals 10x plus 150 for the third brand. Now, these three equations we came up with are great and all, but Grant is a visual person. And frankly, so am I. So, we can help Grant make a decision about which of these three brands of cleaning solution would be best to go with, let's make some xy tables. I've given you values of x already, for each of the tables. And I'd just like you to fill in the corresponding values of y, according to the equation above each table. For the first brand, our y values are 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, and 600. For brand number 2, we have 200, 280, 360, 440, 520, and 600. And for a third and final company, our y values are 150, 250, 350, 450, 550, and 650. Now that we have our x-y tables, graphing is super easy. In fact, we have way more information than we need. We know that we only need two points to draw a straight line. And, we have six for each of these equations. Anyway, please identify which of these three graphs goes with each number brand. Put the number of the brand corresponding to the line that ends first up here in this box. The line that goes with the second arrow in the second box and the company that goes with this third line in this third box. I know that the difference between these lines are subtle but just pay careful attention to the differences between the equations and how you think that affects the way that they're graphed. Let's start by just looking at the first entry in each of the xy tables and seeing which graph it matches to. Brand number 1 should have a line that has the 0.0100 in it. So, we go over to our graph, the 0.0100 is this line. Let's follow that up. So, brand 1 should go along with this line that comes in second here. Brand 2 has a 0.0200, which starts out highest and then ends up with this third arrow over here. That means brand 3 should be this graph. But let's just double check to make sure. This line should contain the 0.0150. And if we follow it down, sure enough, that's on the line. Now, that we have our equations matched with the proper lines, I'd like to point out that I see three special spots on this plot, the three points that all lie right here on the y-axis. Looking at our three equations, which, of course, represent these three lines, can you pick the term in each equation that determines these three points? If we look at the coordinates of these three points, you'll see that they all have an x value of 0, and their y values are 100, 150, and 200. This corresponds to these final constant terms added on to the ends of our equations. So, those are the three terms that you should have selected. This constant at the end of each equation tells us where the line will intersect to the y-axis This is called the y-intercept. So a y-intercept is, first and foremost, a point. And in particular, it's a point where a graph intersects the y-axis. Let's say that we wanted to represent a y-intercept in point notation. The x-coordinate of any y-intercept is, by definition, 0. Let's draw some random line. Here's my lovely line. The y-intercept is where this line intersects with the y-axis. Remember, we have our x-axis here and our y-axis here. At the y-intercept right here, that x coordinate is just 0, since we haven't moved horizontally away from the y-axis. In fact, the equation for the line that is the y-axis, is just x equals 0. Returning to Grant's cleaning solution's solution, let's inspect our three potential brands of cleaning solution a little bit more. Each of these equation seems to have a different y intercept so they all, all different equations. But, two of these three equations are pretty similar to one another. Which two seem the most similar? The first one and the third one, seem really similar to me, because they've the same coefficient here in front of the x. Looking at lines 3 and 1 on our graph, this being line 3 and this being line 1, what quantity do these two equations share? Do they have points in common? Do they have the same slope? Do they have the same x-intercept? Or do they have the same y-intercept? They have the same slope. Let's probe a little bit deeper. To make it a little bit easier to visually differentiate between our lines, I've redrawn our graph and changed teh scale on either axis. So that we're only looking at a portion of the points that we were looking at before. I've also now color coded the lines to go with the different brands of solution. So brand one over here, which is written in dark grey, has the grey line on the graph. Brand two is in blue, and brand three is in orange. Now, using the techniques that we learned in the last lesson to calculate slope from points, can you calculate the slope of each of these three lines? The slopes we end up with are 10 for brand 1, 8 for brand 2, and 10, again, for brand 3. This is really interesting. For both brand 1 and brand 3, when we move over 10 in the x-direction, we have to move up 100 in the y-direction. And, of course, 100 divided by 10 is just 10. I drew this right triangle on the gray line, which corresponds to brand 1, but this same exact triangle can be drawn for the line for brand 3. This has exactly the same proportions. It doesn't however work for brand 2. What's even more interesting, however, is how this ties in with our equations. We said before that brand 1 and brand 3 seem the most similar because they both had coefficients of 10 in their x terms. 10 is what we found for the slope of each of them as well. So, seems like this number, the coefficient of the x term in our equation corresponds to the slope of the line. This is also true for brand number 2, we see a coefficient of 8 in the term 8x, and a slope of 8. But remember where all the numbers in these equations came from? Grant's glasses situation, of course. What did these numbers 8 and 10, that we now see in our equations, originally refer to? Did they come from each company's price per gallon of solution, the total price of cleaning solution, the number of gallons of solution Grant would buy, or the rush delivery fee? The price per gallon. The price per gallon is measured in dollars over gallons. And this makes perfect sense if we think about what quantities we're using to calculate this slope on this graph. y here, stands for the total price of solution, which is, of course, measured in dollars. And x here, stands for the number of gallons of solution that Grant has bought, or is willing to buy. And that's measured in gallons. We know that slope is equal to the change in y over the change in x, which is, just as we found here, dollars over gallons. Thinking about what price per gallon or the units of the slope, means in the context of Grant's story and about what we've learned about slope in general, what does slope mean overall for equations and graphs? Is it the factor by which y will, will scale as x changes? Is it the ratio of the change in x to the change in y? Is it the steepness of a line? Or is it the direction a line points in? You can pick as many of these as you feel are correct. As you might remember from the last lesson, the slope is not, and I repeat not, the ratio of the change in x to the change in y. It's actually the other way around. If we switch this to a y and this to an x, then we have the slope. We've encountered several situations in which the slope of a line was the coefficient of a term that an x to the first in our equation. But my question is, does this hold true in all cases? For which of these equations down here do you think that the slope of the line is the coefficient of the term with an x to the first in it? I know that you may not have an idea of what the graphs of each of these equations look like. But think about the form of the equations that we've looked at so far, and which equations down here might have the same graphical properties as those ones. And the answer is that these two equations, y equals 5x and y equals 12 minus 3x, are the only two equations for which the slope can be found from the coefficient of the term with an x to the first power in it. The equations here which don't just make straight lines when we graph them, which, as we'll learn later on in the course, are those that have factors of x combined with other things besides constants. So, those would include this first equation, this very long, not very nice equation, this one and this one definitely don't have this property. In fact right now, we have no idea how to talk about the slope of line that isn't just a straight line. If we have some sort of funky curve, how can we talk about the direction that it's pointing? It's pointing in different directions at all these different points. So, we can rule all of those answers phases out. We'll talk more about the slopes of these four remaining equations in just a second. I have compiled in this little chart over here, some of the equations for which we've already said that we could calculate the slope or rather just read the slope off of the equation by looking at the coefficient of the x term. And I've also included two equations in which we said that, that was something we could do. My question is, what is unique about these questions on the left that allows us to just read the slope off of their x term coefficient? Can we do this because of the form of the equation because there are two or fewer terms on the right side of each of these equations? Because there's nothing added to y on the left side? Or because they have a y and an x? The answer is the form of the equation. All of the equations on the left-hand side start out with y equals, and then on the right-hand side, have a constant term and a term with x to the first in it. The two equations in this right-hand column do not fit the same form. We'll talk a lot more about the form that these equations are in as we move forward. If I write a general equation, y equals mx plus b, which may look reminiscent of those equations in the left-hand side of our previous table, can you tell me what the slope of this line is? Since this equation is in the same form as the equations for which we could read the slope as the coefficient of the x to the first term, the slope for this equation is m. In fact, this is the letter that we usually use to represent the slope of any line, m. Still considering this general equation for a line in this form, which letters represent variables? This is actually kind of a tricky question. So think about on a line, which values you want to vary and which values we want to stay the same. The variables here are y and x. m and b may be represented by letters in this general form, but they actually stand for constants, that for a given line, will just be numbers. I've written down several of the equations that we've seen in this lesson so far. And for each of these equations, I would like you to identify what number is m, the slope, what number is b, the y coordinate of the y intercept, and how we could write this equation explicitly in the form y equals mx plus b. For each of these equations, m is just the coefficient in front of the term with an x to the first. So, in the first equation, y equals 100 plus 50x, m is just 50. There are two little potentially tricky spots here. Since in the second to the last equation, we have y equals 12 minus 3x, m is equal to negative 3. Since you will recall that in the form of the equation, the general form, we have y equals mx and no sign in front of the m, so we need to include the sign as part of the coefficient. The second potentially tricky thing is for the equation, y equals 5. We don't have a term here with an x. What that really means, is that we have the term plus 0x added onto the end of this. Clearly, 0x is just equal to 0, but writing this lets us see that m, the slope here, is actually equal to 0. This actually makes sense, since y equals 5 is just a horizontal line, whose slope is 0. Moving onto our values of b, these are just the constant terms on the right side of each of these equations. Negative signs need to be included as part of the b term, and then the equation y equals 5x, since we don't explicitly see a constant term added out here, b must be equal to zero. Having this information written out explicitly like this, makes writing the equations in y equals mx plus b form pretty simple. Hopefully, now you feel very confident that all of these equations can be written in this precise form. Which type of lines, or types of lines, can not be written in this form we have just been talking about, y equals mx plus b? The answer is that vertical lines cannot be written in this form. Remember that the slopes of vertical lines are undefined. Because as we saw earlier, when we try to calculate the change in x in order to find the slope, we end up with a denominator of zero. And dividing by zero does not give us defined answers. Or in other words, answers that are numbers that we can work with. Since we can't come up with a number to represent m, we can't write vertical lines in this form. Furthermore, since vertical lines are parallel to the y-axis, they will never intersect it. That means that we can't find a value for b in this form of the equation either. Vertical lines, therefore, do not have y intercepts, and have undefined slopes. Which makes it impossible for us to write it in this form that involves slopes and y intercept's. We solved these two equations earlier on. And now I'd like you to try to rewrite them in the form y equals mx plus b. So, use your understanding of how to manipulate things in Algebra to rearrange and modify the terms in the equation. We find that for the equation, 5y equals 10x, we can end up with y equals 2x. And we can change negative 3x plus y plus 2 equals 0, so that instead it reads, y equals 3x minus 2. I just used the same tools that we used in previous lessons to isolate y in each equation. So, even if an equation isn't initially written in the form, y equals mx plus b, as long as its graph is a straight line and, of course, it's not a vertical line, it can be arranged so it does fit this form. And, of course, once we get it in that form, it's super-easy for us to find the slope and the y-coordinate at the y-intercept. We've been talking a lot about equations that are in the form, y equals mx plus b. And we've talked about how m here represents the slope of this line, and b is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept, the place where the graph intersects the y-axis. When we write an equation in this form, we say that it is written in slope-intercept form. Since, as we've seen, this lets us just read off the values of the slope and the y-intercept. Understanding the rule that each of these constants play in this equation and its graph, can help us get to the stage of graphing a lot quicker. Let's see if we can figure out how to graph the equation y equals negative 2x plus 10 without creating an xy table first. Let's just move straight to the graph. Of course, we have to start by setting up our x and y axes. Notice here that the scale on either axis is different. Horizontally, we're counting by ones with each grid but vertically, we're counting by fours. I just want to make sure we have enough room to show as much of this line as I want to. One pretty easy way for us to start out would be by filling in a point that we can find out super easily. So, please begin by telling me where the y-intercept of this equation is. Please don't forget that the y-intercept is actually a point, a set of coordinates, not just one number. We see in our equation that b as in y equals mx plus b, is the number 10. So this is the y coordinate of the y intercept. Since the y intercept has to lie along the y axis, its x coordinate must be 0. So the y intercept is at 0, 10. Let's graph that. It should be right around here. Equidistance between 8 and 12. Now that we have one point, let's find some more. The slope of negative 2, since negative 2 is the coefficient of the x term, so it is m in this equation, tells us that for every one unit we move to the right, we need to move down negative 2 units. Thinking about the point that we already know in the slope, can you name another point that should lie on this line? Your answer here can actually be any number of things. As long as the coordinates that you pick, x and y, can be substituted into this equation and make it true, they should work. We can play around in the graph to find a few of those points. Keeping in mind the scale of either of our axes, we can go over 1, and down 2 from our y intercept of course, to find the point 1,8. We can do that again, to the right 1, down 2, and that gives us 2,6. We can keep doing the same thing, over and over again. We probably want to move in the other direction as well. If we reverse what we are doing in x, so we move to the left instead of right, then we need to do the opposite in y as well. So we need to move up, instead of down. So to the left 1, and then up 2. That gives us negative 1,12, and so on and so forth. Once you draw enough of these points it's time to connect them with a line. Now that we have this lovely line, we should be able to figure out a ton of different points that satisfy this equation. If we know that y equals negative 8, then what should x equal if we want this point to lie on this line? The x coordinate should be 9. We can follow the y axis down to negative 8, and then stay on that horizontal line, y equals negative 8, all the way over until it intersects our line. That happens at this point right here. If you go directly upward from that point to the x axis, you see that the x coordinate is coming from the origin outward 9. We could also check this by substituting negative 8 into our equation in the spot of y, and then solving for x. Before we used the equation of a line to draw a graph, but how about this time we use the graph to find the equation? I've drawn three lines for you on the set of axes, and I'd like you to start by finding out the slope and the y-coordinate of the y-intercept for each of these lines. Please notice that I have labeled them f, g, and h. So, just fill in this table with the proper values for m and b. Let's start by looking at line f, this turquoise line right here. I like to find the y-intercept first, which on line f, is at 0, negative 2. So b is just negative 2. Then I can use this point to help me find the slope. If I move over 1 to the right, I need to move down 1 in order to hit the line again. So, the slope is going to be negative 1 over 1 or other words just negative 1. For line g, the y-intercept is actually the origin, 0, 0. This means that b has to equal 0. To find the slope, I see that if I start at the origin, I can move to the right 2 units and then down 1 unit to reach the graph again. So, the slope is going to be negative 1, since we moved down 1 in the y direction, over positive 2, since we stepped 2 to the right. So, the slope is negative 1/2. And lastly, we come to line h. This intersects the y-axis at 0, 3, b then is 3. Interestingly enough, just like with g, if we walk over 2, we have to walk down 1 to get back to the graph. So, the slope for this is also negative 1/2. Now that you've found the slope and the y-intercept of each of these three lines, please write an equation for each line for me. Since we have m and b, we can just plug these in to slope intercept form to find the equation for each of these lines. Line f has the equation y equals negative x minus 2. Line g we can just write as y equals negative 1/2 x. You could, of course, also write plus 0 out here, but that's not necessary. And lastly, line h is y equals negative 1/2 x plus 3. As we saw before, lines g and h have the same slope, negative 1/2, and we can see on the graph that they look parallel. They don't have the same y intercept, but they do point in the same direction. Parallel, as we learned very early in the lesson, just means same slope. As I talked about earlier, if 2 lines are parallel, that means that they have the same slope. Considering what parallel means, and your understanding of how to form equations of different lines, can you tell me, then, what the equation of a line parallels to the line, y equals 1/2x plus 3, but that has a y intercept of 0 negative 2 would be. If the line we're looking for is parallel to the line y equals one-half x plus 3, it needs to have the same slope as this line, which is one-half. So, you can start off by writing y equals one-half x, since this is y equals mx. And then, we just need to figure out B, the y coordinate of the y intercept. However, we know the y intercept we're looking for. It's 0, negative 2. So we just add a minus 2 to the end of this equation. Let's graph this, just to see what it looks like. And sure enough, we can see that this orange line, which corresponds to our new equation, has the same slope as the original line. But it's translated down so it has a different y intersept. These lines are definitely parallel. Which of these lines, whose equations are down here, are parallel to the line y equals 4 x minus 5? And the answer is that these three, the ones that I've checked off, are parallel to y equals 4x minus 5. We can see this by doing a little bit of rearranging so we get each of these equations in the form y equals mx plus b. If we add y to both sides of this equation, we can rearrange this equation so that instead it reads y equals 4x. This one is already written in slope-intercept form, and we can see that it's slope is, in fact, 4. Just like that of our original line. If we divide both sides of this equation by 2, we end up with y equals 4x minus one-half. Here, m is the same as in this equation. For each of these lines, however, which are not parallel to this equation, in order to get y by itself, we would have to divide both sides by 2. This would change the coefficient in front of the x that it's no longer 4, which means that the slope of this line is actually 2. The same thing would happen for this equation. So, this is the perfect example of how sometimes, even if the coefficient in front of x, makes it look like a line could be parallel to another line. We have to make sure that the equation is actually in slope intercept form before we can make assumptions about that. We've been talking about parallel lines a lot recently, but here I've drawn two lines that are clearly not parallel to one another. Rather, these lines are what we call perpendicular to one another. Making us some observations about these two lines that I've told you are perpendicular, what do you think that you can say about perpendicular lines in general? If two lines are perpandicular to one another do they have the same slope? Do they have different slopes? Do they have specially related slopes? Do they have slopes are related in a special way? Should they form a right angle with one another, or do they have slopes with oppisite signs? You can pick as many choices as you think are correct. Two lines that are perpendicular to one another have different slopes. And not only that, but these slopes are different in a very special way. They also form a right angle with one another, as you can see that these two lines do right here. And lastly, they have opposite signs. For example, this light blue line in our graph has a negative slope. And this one has a positive slope. We'll talk more about these specific characteristics of perpendicular lines in the coming videos. We know that the two lines on this graph are perpendicular to one another, and we just discussed that being perpendicular has a lot to do with slope. Now, I've named these two lines, p and q, and I'd like you to start off by telling me what the slope of each one of them is. The slope of line P is one half, and the slope of line Q is negative 2. Now, I'd like you to take a second right now, and reflect on what the special relationship between the slopes of perpendicular lines might be. Now, you don't actually have to know the answer for sure right now. But just start mulling it over. We'll talk about it very soon. Here we have another pair of lines that are perpendicular to another, line s in orange and line t in teal. Just like last time, please find the slope of each of these lines. See if after you find the slop of one of them, you can take a guess at the slope of the other one before you calculate it. The slope of line s is just 1, and the slope of line t is just negative 1. Now that you've seen a couple examples of the slopes of pairs of lines that are perpendicular to one another, it'll be great if we could create a general statement for how slopes of perpendicular lines are related. In one case, we had a pair of perpendicular slopes where one was 1/2 and the other was negative 2. And in the other case, we had the slopes 1 and negative 1 as perpendicular. So using these as guidelines, or rather just as examples that should fit our general rule, please create a general expression for m2 in terms of m1. This is definitely kind of tricky, so just try out a couple things, and then see if these pairs of slopes fit your formula. And the answer is that m2 should equal negative 1 divided by m1, or the negative reciprocal of the slope that it's perpendicular to. You can see that both of our examples conform to this rule. Using this new pattern that we've found, relating the slopes of perpendicular lines, what would be the slope of a line perpendicular to a line that has a slope of 10? You know that in general, as we saw before, we just need to take the negative reciprocal of the first slope. So m is going to equal negative 1 divided by the first slope, which is 10. Or, negative 1/10. Let's try another one. What if we have a line that has a slope of three quarters and we want to find the slope of the line perpendicular to that? Just like before, we need to take negative 1 and divide it by this first slope. This is, of course, the same as multiplying by the reciprocal of the fraction and we get a final answer of negative 4 over 3. For each pair of lines listed right here, please tell me whether they are parallel, perpendicular, or neither. The answers are, from left to right, parallel, neither, perpendicular, and perpendicular. We can see right off the bat that for the first pair of lines, they have the same slope, 3. In the second pair of lines, it might at first look you have similar situation, but because of this coefficient of 7 in front of our y term in the 2nd equation, we actually end up seeing that we have a slope of 3 over 7 when we divide both sides by 7. So these lines are not parallel, nor are they perpendicular. For the third pair, negative 3 times 1/3 is negative 1. Or equivalently, 1/3 is equal to negative 1 over negative 3. Either way you look at it, these lines are perpendicular. And last but not least, to figure out the slope of this top of this equation, you need to divide both sides by two, which gives us a slope of 1/2. In the second equation you see a coefficient in from of the x term, of negative 2, and negative 1 over negative 2 is equal to 1/2. So these two lines are perpendicular. So far, we've seen that when we have an equation. An equation like, for example, y equals 3 x minus 5, we can graph that equation. And when we graph that equation, any point that we can pick out that lies along this line will satisfy this equation. If we pick a point along here, like this one let's say, we can figure out its coordinates. Substitute them into x and y respectively, and then find the two sides of the equation are equal to 1 another. In principle then, we should be able to check whether or not a point is on the line of an equation without having to look at the graph at all. As great as visual representations are, algebra itself is super powerful. Let's test out this theory. Does the point 3, 7 lie on the line y equals 3x minus 5? I'm going to walk you through some of the steps to do this, or at least give you some hints about how we should go about it. I'd like you to start by substituting in the proper value from the point into the left-hand side of the equation. L H S here is just shorthand for left-hand side. So type in the value here of the number that this side should simplify to. Then do the same thing for the right-hand side. That's what R H S stands for. Plug in the proper coordinate to the proper variable, and simplify this side of the equation. Once you've found the numbers that belong in these boxes. Tell me if they're equal to one another, and then, depending on how you answer that question, what does this say about whether or not this point lies on this line? The left-hand side of the equation is just y, and in place of y, we're substituting in the y-coordinate at this point, which is 7. So, the left-hand side should just become 7. The right-hand side, as we can see over here, has an x in it. So, we need to substitute 3 into that spot. Simplifying that all the way, gives us 4. Unfortunately, 7 is not equal to 4. In answer to the question, are the sides equal, we have to say no. Since plugging in the coordinates this point makes it so that the two side of our equation are no longer equal, which we remember is the requirement of an equation, this point must not lay on this line. In other words, these values for x and y do not satisfy the equation, y equals 3x minus 5. Here is for you to try on your own. Go through the same set of steps, but this time, let's ask whether the point 1, negative 2 lies on the same line. The left-hand side just becomes negative 2, and the right-hand side also becomes negative 2. Negative 2 is, in fact, equal to negative 2. So, yes, these two sides are equal. And that means, yes, this point, 1 negative 2, does lie on the line y equals 3 x minus 5. Let's try one that's a bit harder now. Does the point 3,4 lie on the line y squared plus 2x squared equals 34? Just like before, we substitute in our x-coordinate in the spot of x and our y-coordinate in the spot of y, then we just simplify. For the left hand side, we end up with 34. For the right hand side, we start out with 34, and there aren't any variables involved in this expression. Since we don't have any place to substitute anything in We can just say 34 is equal to 34. And again, looking at these two sides and how they compare, 34 is still equal to 34. So, yes, these two sides are equal. That means that we can say, that even though we may not have any idea what this curve looks like, we know that this point lies on this line. You might see some equations like this later on in the course. Get excited. Earlier on, we looked at solving equations which looked something like this. Here, we have 3x plus 4 equals 19. Let's consider something slightly different however. What if instead, we have the equation y equals 3x plus 4, let's say that we want know the value of x when y is equal to 19. Well, we know on one hand that we can just use substitution to replace y here with 19 and end up with the equation that we saw before. Then, we could isolate x and have an answer for it. We can also however use a graph to figure out the x-coordinate when y equals 19. Please use this graph to find that x value. Also, please take note of the scale of the x-axis versus the, the y-axis. On the y-axis, every grid line up counts as 2, whereas, on the x-axis, it's only 1. If we go up the y-axis to find where y equals 19, we come just below the upper bound of this graph. Then, we need to slide over, staying at that horizontal position, until we meet our line. That gives us this point right here. To figure out that x coordinate at that point, we follow straight down from that point to the x-xis and see that we hit 5. This must mean that when y equals 19 somewhere along this line, x is also equal to 5. Earlier on, we talked about how many gallons of cleaning solution Grant should buy depending on how many orders he received from customers. Initially, Grant had thought that he wanted to keep ten extra gallons of cleaning solution on hand at all times, but he's changed his mind a little bit. He's gotten a ton of orders, more than he was expecting. So, he's decided to adjust his surplus from 10 gallons to 20 gallons. What equation do we need now to describe how many gallons of cleaning solution Grant should buy, depending on many orders he's received? To be super clear, I've written down what each of our variables in the original equation stood for. Also, the surplus of cleaning solution is the only thing that Grant wants to change. He's not going to change the number of gallons that he buys per expected order. The answer is, our new equation should be g equals 0.1n plus 20. Grant is not going to change the number of gallons that he buys, depending on how many orders he is expecting to get, the only thing that he is changing is the amount of extra solution he is buying, which is just this constant added out on the end. Now, that we have equations for the total number of gallons that Grant will buy, let's compare the old equation we would have used to calculate how many gallons of solution Grant would buy to the new equation that we're going to use. How are these two lines related? Are they parallel? Are they perpendicular? Do they have different slopes? Do they have the same slope? Do they have different g-intercepts, or do they have the same g-intercept? Notice that we have g-intercept here instead of a y-intercept, because our variable over here is a g instead of a y. This is just different notation. Graphically, it really means the same thing as a y-intercept since we would create axes to graph these equations, with n as the horizontal axis, and g as the vertical axis. These lines are both written in the same form, even though we have different variable names now than we normally do when we talk about slope intercept form. These equations are both in the same form as y equals m x plus b. We have a variable on one side, a constant times a variable, and then a constant term tacked on to the end. This is true for this equation as well. Becasue they are in slope intercept form, we can just read off their slopes from the equation directly. They do not have different slopes, they have the same slope. That's what being parallel means after all. What changed we moved from the old situation to the new situation with the surplus solution was the g intercept. We can find that g intercept need equation in the slide where b normally is in slope intercept form. If I wanted to graph these pretty informally I may little sketch up here, I would have our first line like this. In the second line, exactly parallel to it, but just shifted up on the vertical axis. The information we used to create the second equation then, came from us knowing the slope that this new line should have, and also one point that it should go through, 0, 20 which we reflected in the g-intercept part of the equation. If Grant expects to receive 550 orders from customers, how many gallons of cleaning solution should he purchase? Please make sure that you have your answer reflect the new situation with the surplus of cleaning solution. We need to start off with our new equation for g, the total number of gallons that Grant is going to buy. Since n stands for the number of orders that Grant is expecting to get, we need to substitute 550 in the spot of n. Then, we just need to simplify the right-hand side of the equation, to solve for g. 55 plus 20 is 75. So, the answer is 75 gallons. Now that we've found out how many gallons of cleaning solution Grant's going to buy, we can look back to our equations that dealt with the amount that cleaning solution would cost for him, depending on which brand he decided to go with. And each do a little bit of variable switch up though. To get back in the paradigm that these equations were written in, I'll remind you of what each of the variables stood for, x here stood for the number of solution that Grant would buy, and y was equal to the total cost of Grant's order, taking into account both the solution that he bought in the rush order fee for each company. Setting up our coordinate plane with a scale of 10 on the x axis and 100 on the y axis, I'm going to graph these 3 lines again. To make this graph easier for you to read and understand, I've color coded the lines again just like we did before, and then written their corresponding equations in the proper colors. We've talked a ton in the past about how we can find values of variables that satisfy equations but we can also do this graphically. Think for a second, if I wanted to find out how much 75 gallons of solution will cost for each brand that Grant might buy from, what extra line should I add to this graph? Please write the equation for that new line in this box. In the context of this problem and these equations, finding out that Grant wants to buy 75 gallons of solution means that we want to set x equal to 75. Now usually, we just think about something that looks like this as assigning a value to a variable and that is true. But don't forget, this is an equation of a line. Since we're now talking about x equals 75 as a line, what kind of line is that? Do you think it's a horizontal line? A vertical line? A line with a positive slope? A line with a negative slope? Or do you think it's not a line at all, but it's a point instead? x equals 75 is a vertical line. Let's graph it. The condition this imposes for every point along it is just that the x value of all of those points has to be 75. Since y is not included in the equation, this is true for any value of y, or rather all values of y from negative infinity all the way to infinity. So, here's our lovely new purple line, just to add some thing new to mix up our color scheme, that graphs x equals 75. Now that we've graphed this new line, how should we actually use it? Why do they want us to do this in the first place? Remember that what we're trying to do in the end is find out how much Grant will pay to each of these companies if he decides to buy 75 gallons of cleaning solution from them. So should we compare the line x equals 75? Should we compare the slope of the line, x equals 75, to the slopes of these other three lines, the x intercept of this vertical line, to these line's x intercepts? Should we do the same thing with its y intercept instead? Or should we find out where this line intersects each of these three lines? We should find out where x equals 75 intersects each of these three lines. So, we want to find the places where this lovely purple vertical line intersects each of these 3 other lines. But why? What is the point where 2 lines intersect actually represent? Is it a point that lines on both of those lines? Does it tell us values for x and y that satisfy the equations of both of the lines? Is it a point where one of the lines turns into the other line? Or is it a solution to both equations? These three choices are correct. At the spot where two lines cross, or intersect, they have to go through the exact same point, which is why they are able to touch in the first place. So this point of intersection lies both on this orange line and on this purple line. They both pass through this location. Remember, though, that a point on a line gives us x and y values that satisfy the equation for that line, or in other words, make it true. If a point lies on both lines, then it must do that for both of those equations. That means that for any two lines that intersect, there's some pair of x and y values that we could plug into either equation, and create a true statement for each. This is the same thing as saying that these values create a solution to both equations. We know that Grant wants to buy 75 gallons of cleaning solution, which is why we graphed this line of x equals 75. But what happens if he decides to buy that from brand number 1? Can you use our graph to figure out how much he's going to pay? I've labelled each of the lines on our graph according to the number of the brand it corresponds to. So, the teal line is for brand 1, the orange line is for brand 2, and the light blue line is for brand 3. What we're looking for is the point of intersection between our line x equals 75 and the line that corresponds to brand 1. So, we follow the teal line up until it intersects the purple line, which happens right here. We follow that over to the y-axis. That point looks like it's halfway between this grid line and this grid line, or halfway between 800 and 900, if we count up from 500. So, it looks like Grant will pay $850. So, for $850, Grant can get 75 gallons of cleaning solution from brand number 1. But he's curious as to whether or not this is the best use of his money. If he's going to spend $850, should he really be going with brand number 1? In other words, could Grant get a better deal with his $850? Pick yes or no. Of course, we're only considering these three companies, and their different cleaning solution offers. The answer is yes. Grant could definitely get a better deal. Before we talk about the best way for Grant to spend $850, if that's how much he really wants to spend, let's talk about being fixed on buying 75 gallons of cleanser. So, what is the least amount that Grant could pay in order to get 75 gallons of solution? And in addition to this, which company would he have to buy the solution from in order to get this great price? If we're talking about paying for 75 gallons of solution, we need to think about three points of intersection made by each of the three company lines, and our very familiar now vertical x equals 75 line. If we're curious about the least amount Grant could pay, we need to see which one of these three points of intersection has the lowest y value, or the smallest y coordinate. Of these three points of intersection, this one is the lowest, so it must be the one that we're interested in. The Y value of this point, if we follow this grid line over, looks to be 500, 600, 700, 800. So the best deal that Grant could get if he wants to buy 75 gallons of solution will be paying $800. This point that we're talking about is a point of intersection between the purple line and the orange line, and the orange line corresponds to company 2. So company 2 is the one that's going to give him the $800 deal on 75 gallons of solution. So, $800 for 75 gallons sounds like a pretty good deal. But Grant really is willing to pay $850. He set aside that amount of money for cleaning solution, And he wants to get the most bang for his buck. What new line could we graph on this coordinate plane ... To help us figure out how many gallons of solution Grant could buy from each of these three companies ... For $850? Please put the equation for that line in this box right here. Thinking back to what our variables x and y stand for, x is the number of gallons of solution that Grant will buy, and y is how much it's going to cost him to buy that much. If we fix the amount that Grant's going to spend, at $850, what that really means is fixing our y value at 850. So, the line we need is just y equals 850. Let's graph that. And here is our lovely horizontal line. Let's quadruple check that you fully understand the connection between Grant's situation that we're talking about, the graph that we've drawn, and the equations that we're going to use. If we want to know how many gallons of cleaning fluid Grant can get for $850, what should we look for? The value of y when x equals 850? The value of x when y equals 850? The slope when x equals 850? Or points of intersection between y equals 850 and other lines? We want the value of x when y equals 850, since remeber y in this situation stands for the total cost to Grant. And x stands for the number of gallons of cleaning fluid he'll get. If we follow the line y equals 850, over to where it intersects other lines, we'll be finding the points on those lines that have a y coordinate of 850. From there, we can find the x-coordinate that goes along with those points, and we'll have our solution. Let's consider one of these points of intersection, the one between this new pink line and this light blue line. If we call the point where they intersect p, then what two equations can we use the coordinates of point p to relate to one another? Please fill in those two equations down here. y equals 850 and y equals 10x plus 150. These are just the two lines that are intersecting at that point. We know that at point p, these two equations should be satisfied by the same values of x and y. So, can you figure out a way to combine them into a single equation, where x is the only variable? We want to keep x as the variable because it's the value that we are looking for. Since point p is a point that is shared, by both the line, y equals 850, and the line y, equals 10x plus 150, both of these lines have the same y value at that point. Since the y value of y equals 850 is always 850, that means that this the y value of 10x plus 150 at point p. So, we just need to substitute 850 into the spot of y, in the second equation. That gives us a single equation of 850 equals 10x plus 150. And yes, x is the only variable in this equation. Now that we have an equation with one variable in it, let's solve for that variable. What is x equal to? 70 is equal to x. With the information we've compiled over the last several quizzes, can you tell me the coordinates of point p? Please be sure to write in ordered pair notation. We just solved for the x value of point p as 70, and we already knew that its y value is 850. So, those are its coordinates. Finally, let's figure this out. How many gallons of solution will Grant get from each company if he pays them $850? Fill in each of the amounts in the proper boxes. And then lastly, based on your 3 answers up here, tell me which number brand is the best bargain? To figure this out, we just need to find the points of intersection between y equals 850 and each of these three lines. So, they are here, here, oh, wow, three-way intersection, and here. Brand 1, as we've already figured out, would give Grant 75 gallons for $850. Brand 2 would give him 80 gallons and brand 3 would only give him 70 gallons. So clearly, brand number 2 is the best deal. Grant has historically been pretty frugal, however, and it's pretty possible that he'll want to cut back on the money he devotes to spending on cleaning solution. That instead of $850, he decides that he only wants to spend $400. How many gallons could that get him from each of our 3 brands? Once you use our graph to figure that out Please tell me which brand is the best deal. Each of the three solutions here that we're looking for is the x-coordinate of the proper line at the point where the y-coordinate is equal to 400. So, we're looking for where each of these lines intersects the line y equals 400. For line number one, this happens right here, at 30 gallons. Brand 2 and brand 3 actually both intersect our lovely green line at the same point. So, all three of these lines the orange, light blue, and the green, meet at whatever this point is. We know that the y-coordinate is 400 and the x-coordinate is, if you look down at the x-axis, 25. Taking into account how many gallons of solution each of these brands can give us for $400, it looks like now, brand 1 is actually the best deal. So, turns out that it's a bit trickier to choose which brand is the best to go with then Grant might have thought earlier. As you can see from our graph, the brand that's going to help him use his money most efficiently is going to be different depending on how much money he wants to spend. No matter how much money that Grant decided to spend on cleaning solution, this graph is definitely going to come in handy to help him make the best choice. Through helping Grant mull over this cleaning solution issue, we learned about the use and the importance of points of intersections on graphs. When two lines cross one another, the coordinates of the point where that happens give us values of variables that satisfy the equations of all of the lines that pass through that point. So, we are able to use this knowledge to solve for different variables. We could just take the equations corresponding to either line, figure out how to set one side of one equation equal to one side of the other equation, and then solve for the unknown variable. That would give us a new coordinate of that point of intersection. But, what if instead we didn't have a graph? What if you just had an equation, and not just any equation but an equation with one variable, something like 3 x plus 4 equals 19? Now that we know we can find values for variables through finding points of intersection of lines, can you think of two lines we could graph whose point of intersection would help us solve this equation? Please put a two variable equation in each of these boxes that we could graph on the same coordinate plane to help us work with this equation. This definitely requires a little bit of outside the box thinking. So, just give it a try. Our two equations are y equals 3 x plus 4, which of course incorporates the left side of this equation, and y equals 19, which deals with the right side. If we have these two seperate equations, but we know that at their point of intersection, they share a y value, then at that point, this y and this y will be the same. So we can set the other side of each equation equal to each other, which gives us 3x plus 4 equals 19. Now that we figured out which two equations we need to graph, can you tell which two lines on this plot these equations correspond to? Please pick the two letters out of this list that correspond to the lines that you think we need. y equals 3x plus 4 has a y-intercept of 0 4, which is this point right here and a slope of 3, which makes it really steep. So, it must be this line, which is line g, so I'll check that one off. y equals 19 is a horizontal line that is located 19 units above the x-axis. So, if you go 19 up, we hit line d. So, those are the two lines we need. I've highlighted the two lines that we selected in the last quiz in this dark blue color. I'd like you to first to tell me what the point of intersection of those two lines is. And then using that, tell me what our solution for x in the earlier equation should be. Our point of intersection is right here. Because this point lies on the line y equals 19, we already know that its y-coordinate must be 19. Its x-coordinate we can find by just tracing this down to the x-axis, straight below the point. And that is 5. So, our point of intersection is 5,19. The x-coordinate here is 5, so x must equal 5. Let's check this in our original equation. We started off with the equation 3 x plus 4 equals 19. Let's plug in our x value to see if this works. On the left-hand side, we'll have 3 times 5 plus 4, which simplifies to 19. The right-hand side has no variables, so there's nothing to change, and we can just write 19. Sure enough, 19 equals 19. So, we're good. x equals 5 is the correct answer. Let's start with a slightly more complicated equation. 3 x plus 4 equals 2 x minus 1. Just like I asked you before, if I want to find the solution to this equation through drawing two lines that intersect one another in order to find this value of x from their point of intersection. Since at a point of intersection, the 2 lines that are crossing share both an x value and a y value, and we know that we want this x to be the x coordinate of some point of intersection, we can say that these two lines already share a y value. And we can let that y value equal this side and this side. If we set y equal to this side of the equation, we get a new equation y equals 3 x plus 4. So that could be this line for example. The line that it crosses at this point of intersection where we have this x coordinate is y equals 2 x minus 1. I've graphed the lines of the two equations that you came up with in the previous quiz. And now, I would like you to find their point of intersection and from that, tell me what the solution for x was in the original equation. Our two lines intersect at this point. We follow that up to the x-axis, looks to be halfway between these two grid lines, which are x equals negative 4 and x equals negative 6, which means, the x-coordinate is negative 5. The y-coordinate, if we go over the y-axis, is negative 11. So, this point is negative 5, negative 11. And the x-coordinate of that is negative 5. So, x equals negative 5. Remember that the original equation we started with was 3x plus 4 equals 2x minus 1. Let's make sure that negative 5 actually is a solution for this equation. If we plug in negative 5 to the left-hand side, we get 3 times negative 5 plus 4. And this simplifies to negative 11, which was, in fact, the y-coordinate that we found for our point. On the right-hand side, we have 2 times negative 5 minus 1, and that also equals negative 11. So, the solution for x works for our original equation. Awesome. Now that Grant's finally made a decision about which cleaning solution brand to go with, he's decided to sell all the different products he's marketing in a package. He's going to sell nozzles and wipers and cleaning solution for one fabulous deal. Taking all the various costs of creating his products and shipping them and everything into account, Grant calculates that he'll make a profit of $1000 for every 60 glasses cleaning sets that he sells. And if he sells 100 glasses cleaning sets he'll make a profit of $1200, assuming that the relationship between number of cleaning sets sold and profits is linear, or in other words lies on a straight line, we should be able to predict, how much of a profit Grant will make, for any number of glasses cleaning sets that he might sell. It would be really great if we could plot this information on a graph. And then use that graph to find out about other points on the line. If we let x equal the number of cleaning sets that Grant sells and y equal his profit in dollars, can you write each of these pieces of information as a point on the line that we're going to be able to draw? Our 2 points are 60, 1000, and 100, 1200. We can figure this out by just looking at which pieces of information will count as x values and which ones will count as y values. Now that we have our two points, we need to find the equation of the line that goes through both of them. Let's start by finding its slope. Remember that slope is the change in y over the change in x. So, we just subtract one of our y-coordinates from the other and one of our x-coordinates from the other, making sure to use the same point first in each case. I'm going to have this point give us our second coordinates and this point give us our first coordinates. This gives us a final answer of 5. Now we have the slope of our line, and we still note two points that it passes through. Can you use this information to figure out the equation of our line? Please write it in this box. Just a hint, think about how you can use slope intercept form to do this. If you're having trouble remembering what slope intercept form is, you can just go back a few videos and review it. An equation is in slope-intercept form if we can write it as something like y equals mx plus b, where m is the slope, which conveniently we already have for our equation, and b is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept. Since we have slots for x and y in our equations and we conveniently already have two points that we know can belong in those two spots, we can use either of these points and plug it into the slots for x and y. So we can start off with what we already know, using the slope. I am going to use this point, 100,1200 and plug 100 in for x and 1200 in for y. That's because we know that this point, or the coordinates of this point, when substituted into the proper places in this equation, satisfy this equation, or make it a true statement. That means we're allowed to use them. I still don't know what the y coordinate of our y intercept is, so I would really like to figure that out with the equation. So I want to get b by itself on one side of the equation, and I end up with 700 equals b. Now you can take this value and put it back in the equation we started with. That gives us a final equation of y equals 5 x plus 700. So this is our answer. You could have of course used the point 60, 1000 instead of 100,1200. And we can check to see this is right by plugging in each of the coordinates for the 2 points to it. And seeing if each side ends up equaling the other side. Now that we have an equation for the profit Grant will make based on the number of glasses cleaning sets he sells, I'd like to know what this 700, this constant term at the end of the equation stands for in the context of Grant's money making endeavors. Is this how many cleaning sets he has to sell in order to break even? Just so you know, breaking even, means that profit equals zero. So Grant doesn't make any money but he also doesn't lose any money. Or is 700 his profit if he doesn't sell any glasses cleaning sets? Is it his lunch budget for the month? His profit for every extra glasses cleaning set he sells? Or is 700 the cost of one glasses cleaning set? Please pick what you think is the best answer. 700 is Grant's profit. If he doesn't sell any glasses cleaning sets. Since this equation is written in slope intercept form, this is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept, b, in our equation, y equals mx plus b form. That means there's a point on this line that has the coordinates 0,700. Since x in our equation stands for the number of glasses cleaning sets Grant sells, and y stands for his profit, This tells us that if Grant doesn't sell any glasses cleaning sets, he will make $700. Based on what we found out in the last quiz, that Grant will make a profit of $700 if he sells no cleaning sets. What conclusion should we draw? Does this mean that Grant can pull money out of thin air? Does it mean that his initial predictions about profit based on the number of cleaning sets that he sold were not really very good, or does this mean that Grant will have lost $700 if he doesn't sell any cleaning sets? Please pick what you think is the best answer. This question is really just asking us to use our common sense. Does is make sense that Grant will make money if he doesn't sell any products? I would argue no. If no one buys his products, he won't get any money back. And since he put money into making them, he'll be at a loss. And fortunately we have a positive y-intercept, not a negative one. So, this means this is positive profit. So, the information from our equation is not really in line with what we would think logically would happen. So, I would say that the two points that Grant gave us to start out, which you may remember were 60, 1000. And 100, 1200 were probably off. We based our entire equations just off the info we got from these two points to help us figure out our slope, and our y-intercept. So, this just goes to show you that if your initial data is wrong, your final conclusion will probably not make very much sense. I think this is also testament to the importance of being able to connect math with real world situations. And why we have to keep ourselves grounded in what our variables mean when we're solving problems. People at the expo in the wonderful city, Udacity, love Grant's glasses wipers, but they're also really looking forward to his nozzles coming out. In order to ensure the success of his business, Grant wants to move into nozzle manufacturing really soon but nozzles, which if you remember, are the things that spray cleaning solution onto the glasses They're a little bit harder to make than glasses wipers. He's going to need to buy new machinery in order to start manufacturing them. On top of having to purchase this new machinery, Grant will also have to pay for the materials that are required to make a single nozzle. These cost about $2 per nozzle. As always, Grant's on a pretty tight budget and he'd like our help to figure out how much he should plan to spend on this new nozzle making machinery. This is definitely going to be a big issue for us to help Grant tackle. So, I think we should break this problem-solving down. I also recognize that there are a lot of words on the screen right now, and that can definitely feel overwhelming. But if we just take things step-by-step, we can figure this out. Let's start by talking about what we actually know right now. What information does the problem give us? Read through this problem statement again, and then tell me, what do we already know. Do we know how much Grant should spend on nozzle machinery? Do we know how many nozzles he should make per month? Do we know how much materials for each nozzle cost? Or do we know how much Grant wants to spend total on nozzle production? The problem tells us how much materials for each nozzle cost. We don't have any concrete information about any of the other three choices quite yet. So how much does it cost to make each nozzle since we supposedly know that. Assume that the materials are the only thing that goes into the cost for making nozzles. It costs $2 to make each nozzle. We can see that in the problem with this sentence. It says, the materials to make each nozzle cost $2. Now that we've the information that we're given nailed down, what do we want to find out in the end? What is the final quantity that we're trying to figure out with this problem? There may be other things we need to figure out along the way to get to this final quantity, but right now, I'm only interested in what the problem is asking us for. The last sentence of the problem tells us what we're looking for. It says that Grant wants to know how much money he should spend on the new nozzle making machinery. So this is asking how much he should spend on the new machinery, which is this first choice. Now that we have our given information and the goal of our problem laid out explicitly, we can work toward creating and equation to help describe the situation. I'd like you to use these quantities down here to create a word equation in these blanks. I've made things a little bit easier for you and filled in operators already. So please, in each of these blanks, put the letter of the quantity down here that you think belongs in that position. And the order of the letters that you should have is b equals a times c plus d. However, you could also have a and c switched here. Of course, because of the commutative property of multiplication. Doesn't matter whether we multiply the number of nozzles by the cost to make each nozzle or the cost to make each nozzle by the number of nozzles made. Either way you have it. This equation says that the total amount that Grant will spend on nozzle production depends both on how much he spends on the new machinery to allow for that production, and how much he spends in buying products to make each nozzle. Please notice what we're looking for the problem in the end is the quantity d over here. The cost of new machinery to Grant. And although it's not by itself an equation yet, you can use your algebra skills to pretty easily rearrange things so that d is by itself. So here's the word equation we came up with in the last problem. Clearly though, considering I had to write this on two separate lines, there are a lot of words here and this is going to be kind of confusing to keep track of. So, let's use some different variables. I'd like to let x equal the number of nozzles made and I'd like to let y equal the total amount spent on nozzle production. So, with those substitutions, our equation will look a little bit cleaner. With these substitutions, it's pretty clear that this equation is written in slope intercept form, which we are now very familiar and comfortable with. So thinking about where the slope should show up in this equation and the information that we're given. What number do you think the slope is equal to in this equation? The slope of our equation, because this is in slope-intercept form is just the coefficient in front of the x, so that's the cost to make each nozzle. We know that each nozzle costs $2 to make, so m is just 2. This is the thing that's going to determine how much the total amount of money spent or y will change as the number of nozzles or x changes. Now that we know that m is equal to 2, we can replace cost to make each nozzle with 2. Well, that looks even better. I am so excited about where we're going with this equation. Since we know our equation is written in the form y equals mx plus b, cost of new machinery must be this b. In other words, cost of new machinery is the y-coordinate of the y-intercept of this line. I am just going to make that variable replacement right now, and just replace cost of machinery with b. So, this equation looks pretty good. But can we go any further? Think about what we are trying to find. We want to find out how much Grant should spend on nozzle machinery. Keeping in mind what it is we are trying to find out, do we have enough information to go further with this problem, and calculate that quantity? In other words, do we have enough information to come up with a number that is equal to the amount that Grant should spend on nozzle machinery? Please tell me yes or no. And the answer is no. We have three things that we don't know in this equation. We don't have any numbers to replace y or x or b right now. We need to know more from Grant before we can move forward. Conveniently, Grant just made the decision that he would like to keep the amount he spends on nozzles in the next month, at most $10,000. So we have something new to add to our what we know list. Assuming Grant maxes out this budget, he will spend $10,000 total on making nozzles. Thinking about what our variables stand for, which one of them could be replaced with 10,000? Do you think it belongs in the spot of y, or x, or b? Since 10,000 is the amount that Grant wants to spend total on nozzles and y equals the total amount of money spent on nozzles, 10,000 is a value for y. Knowing that we can replace y with 10,000 in the equation and thinking about what quantity we're looking for in the end, which of course is b. Do we now have enough information to come up with a number for b? No. We still do not have enough info. To find out b. Even if we replace y with 10,000, we still have 2 unknowns in one equation. And that means that we can't isolate one of them and have a pure number for what it's equal to. I guess we need to know more. Fortunately, for us, again, Grant tells us more information. He tells us that he's going to make 120 nozzles per day for the next month. Taking this information into account, can you figure out a value for x based on this data? Remember, that x stands for the total number of nozzles made and I'd like to know what x will equal after 1 month. Grant's going to make 120 nozzles every day for 30 days. So that means the total number of nozzles he'll make, is just 120 times 30. That is equal to 3,600. Now that we've had even more information added to our pot of knowledge, can we now figure out what b is? Do we have enough information to solve our problem? And the answer is, yes. We have a value for y and the value x that goes with that value for y. So b is the only unknown left in our equation. What do we know about our line at this point? I'm not really interested in things that we can figure out. There are a lot of things that we can figure out. But just things that we know explicitly right now. Do we know its y intercept, its x intercept? Its slope? Or 1 point that lies on it? You can pick as many of these answers as you think are correct. We figure out before that the slope of r minus 2 so we definitely know that. And we have a y and x coordinate or an x and y coordinate peer that go together and they make the point 3600, 10000. So we know one point that lies on our line as well. Now that we have a point and a slope for our line, we can calculate b and come up with a final equation in slope-intercept form. Where x and y are the only variables. Please find that equation for me and put it in this box. We can solve for b by simply substituting in the values x and y that we know from our point. If we do that and a bit simple algebra, we can[UNKNOWN] the value for b of 2800. Inserting this into our equation, gives us a final equation in[UNKNOWN] form of y equals 2x plus 2800. What a beautiful equation we have now. But what does this mean for Grant's situation? Does this tell us that 2800 nozzles will be made in the first month? That he'll spend $2800 total on glasses in the first month? That every month he'll spend $2800 more on nozzles or that he can spend $2800 on new machinery to make his nozzles? B or the y intercept, represented the amount that Grant could spend on new machinery and stay within the budget that he'd set for the first month. So, this last choice is correct. As much as I love the new equation we just came up with, it took us a really long time and a bunch of steps to get it in this nice form. It would be really great if we could come up with a shortcut for how to get to the same end result without having to do quite as much work. The information that we used to develop our equation in the last problem was a point and a slope. Let's consider a general situation like this. Let's say that we have a line, and we know that the slope of the line is m. We also know that this line goes through the point, s, t, where s is our x coordinate, and t is our y coordinate. I'd like to start off by having you substitute these values in to the proper places of an equation that's in slope-intercept form. So we want to start off with y equals mx plus b, but then substitute in these quantities to the proper spots. We should have t equals ms plus b. Starting with this equation, what do you get if you solve for b? Write an expression that b is equal to in this box. We just need to subtract ms from both sides to end up with t minus ms equals b. Or, because we can just switch things to either side of the equal sign if we know that they are equal, b equals t minus ms. So now we have an expression for the y intercept of a line with slope m that goes through the point s, t. What happens if we plug this expression for b into the general equation for slope intercept form? Write the equation that, that would give us in this box. We start off with y equals mx plus b, and then in place of b, substitute in t minus ms. Great. That's our new equation. So now we have an equation in slope intercept form that takes into account both that our slope is m and that we have the point s,t on our line. This is really cool, but I don't think this looks very pretty right now. And you know me and how I like things in our equations to look pretty. So, let's see if we can clean it up a little bit. In an effort to make this look a little bit neater, what happens if we move t from the right hand side of the equation to the left hand side of the equation? Of course, we need to obey the rules of Algebra. But if I said I only wanted the term with t on the left, what equation would we have now? To move t from the right side and have it on the left side instead, we just need to subtract it from both sides, so we end up y minus t equals mx minus ms. We're definitely getting there. We have everything related to y on the left side of the equation, since t is our y coordinate, and everything related to x as well as our slope on the right side. However, I see one thing that we can do to change this a little bit that I think will help us out. I provide a new form for you that I'd like us to write this equation. So see if you can figure out which variable, that's on the right side right now, belongs in which box. Please note that I only want one variable in each box. And of course, I want this equation to be equivalent to this equation. This is a little bit tricky. It's not exactly like anything we've done before, but here's the answer. We have y minus t equals m times the quantity x minus s. We'll talk more about why this works in just a second. What we have to notice about the right hand side of this equation, the second to last one we came up with, is that each term has a factor of m. We call this a common factor, since the two terms share it. So that means each of these terms can be divided by m, but it wouldn't end up with a remainder for either one. If we redistribute the m by multiplying it by either terms inside the parenthesis here, we would end up with same equation as we had just before. Let's think more about this concept in a general case. If we have three numbers, a, b and c, and we have a times b plus c, what expression would you get if you wanted to get rid of the parentheses here? Distributing multiplication by a to both terms inside the parentheses gives us a times b or ab plus a times c or ac. So now, we can see that both terms here have a common factor of a. This is basically the opposite of the step that we took in modifying our equation earlier. We're getting rid of our parentheses here instead of adding them in. What if, instead we have xy plus xz? Can you write this in a form so that x is not distributed? We get x times the entire quantity y plus z. Both terms in the first expression have a factor of x so we can sort of pull an x out of each term, write that as a factor that's multiplying two terms inside parenthesis and, of course, these two terms which are the terms left over from each of the original terms still have the same relationship as these two do. These are added together. Its been pretty easy to see what the factors of these terms with only variables in them are, but what if we have a number instead? An integer factor of a number goes into that number, an integer number of times without leaving a remainder. So, this is a number that we can divide evenly into another number. So, for example, since 8 is equal to 4 times 2, 4 and 2 are both factors of 8. So, for example, what are all the factors of 6? Please fill in those four numbers here. The factors of 6 are 1, 2, 3 and 6. We just need to think about all the combinations of 2 integers that can be multiplied together to equal 6. 1 times 6 equals 6 and 2 times 3 equals 6. So these the only 4 factors of 6. As you saw earlier with mx minus ms equals m times x minus s, we can rewrite expressions by looking for what factor different terms in that expression have in common. So, let's try this with a few more expressions. Let's start off with 6x minus 9 equals something, or not just anything, but some factor times an expression inside parentheses. For this problem and for the several problems after this one, I'd like you to restrict the factors that you pull out of the original expression to the integers or variables. And make sure that what you have in the end, in the boxes and parentheses, doesn't have any common factors between the terms, aside from 1, of course, since everything is divisible by 1. Write the common factor that these two terms have in this box, and that the expression that needs to be multiplied by that factor in this box. 3 is the factor that both terms, 6x and negative 9, have. 6x minus 9 equals 3 times 2x minus 3. Since 3 times 2x is 6x, and 3 times negative 3 is negative 9. What about 6x plus 3? What belongs in these boxes then? 6x plus 3 is equal to 3 times the quantity 2x plus 1. That this sounds actually a little bit tricky. One mistake that is really easy to make, is to forget about this second term inside the parenthesis, the 1. But if we leave it out, then we only have one term inside of the parenthesis. 3 times 2x is just equal to 6x, and this 3 would have nowhere to come from. Checking to make sure that this answer when you simplify it, has the same number of terms as the first answer, is a pretty fundamental importance. Let's try out 12x plus 18. The answer is 6 times 2x plus 3. Let's look at another case of a pretty common mistake people could make on this problem. Let's say that you looked at this and though oh, 12 and 18 are both even numbers that means they are divisible by 2. And, if we factor out a 2 from both terms here, we're left with 6x plus 9. But remember I said that I didn't want to see any common factors between terms. Inside the parentheses aside from 1. And 6x and 9 are both divisible by 3. That's not super hard to fix, though. If I pull out a 3 from here, then my coefficient, or rather my term multiplying the things inside parentheses, is 2 times 3. How about 12xy plus 18x squared? This time we have to worry about both variables and coefficients. If we look at the coefficient in each terms, they have a common factor of 6, so we know that we have to pull that out of our expression, but there's also an x in both 12xy and in 18x squared. So that is a fact that needs to comes out as well. So the full common factor that 12xy and 18x squared share is 6x. I mean, you divide each term by that, you get 2y and 3x. Now for a challenge question, how would you deal with 3x times x minus 1 plus 4 times x minus 1? What common factor is there between this term and this term and then what's left over when you pull that out. You may need to expand our definition of what can go in this box for this particular question. The answer is x minus 1 times 3x plus 4. Recognizing that x minus 1 is a factor that both of these terms had, definitely takes a little bit of outside the box thinking. It is, however, in each term,multiplied by the other factors in the term so it count a factor. Just to get your brain jogging for later on in the course, think about what would happen if you multiply all this out. You did this before of course, but just think about this answer and the connection with, what this looks like when you distribute the terms. Hopefully now the way that we modified this equation for our line earlier makes a little bit more sense. Remember that we had y minus t equals m times x minus s. But what does this really mean? Let's think back to what we called different parts of our line, or different characteristics of our line, when we created this equation. Well, this t was our y coordinate of the point that we knew. So this left hand side of the equation really says y minus the y coordinate and on the right side, m was our slope and s was our x coordinate. So we've just derived another way to work out the equation of the line. That's pretty impressive. This is really incredible that you guys did this yourself. Now, any time that we know the coordinates of a point on a line s and t, or the x coordinate and the y coordinate. And we know the slope of the line, we can automatically write that line's equation. This is a super, super powerful tool. However, I'm lazy, and writing it out this way is really time consuming. But writing it in the original way doesn't really show us what s and t actually stand for. It's a little bit Less clear what the meaning of these letters is. Let's see what we can do about this. Instead of calling our point here s, t I think we should call it x1, y1. That way whenever we use these terms in the equation we know what kind of values they are. We know whatever is in the place of x1 is going to be an x coordinate and whatever is in the place of y1 is going to be a y coordinate. So that updates this equation. Remember that y and x here are general variables, but x1 and y1 will be the fixed values that we pick based on a concrete point that we know. These values will vary. As we move up and down the line. These values will stay fixed. Thinking about what information we used to develop this equation, what do you think that we should call this form of linear equation? Should we call it slope intercept form, standard form, point-slope form, general form or point-intercept form? Since we started off knowing the coordinates of a point that lie on this line and the slope of the line, this is called point-slope form. Now that we have this new formula, let's try using it. Let's say that we have a line with a slope of 5 that we know goes to the point 2,3. What would be an equation for this line in point-slope form? Let's talk about the information we get from the problem. We see that the line has a slope of 5, so that means m equals 5. The fact that it goes to the point 2, 3 means that x1 equals 2, if we're using the variables from the point-slope form equation, and y1 equals 3. Now we just need to insert these into the equation. We get y minus 3 equals 5 times x minus 2. Great. Now that we have this equation in point-slope form, let's see if we can simplify and get it into slope-intercept form instead. First things first, we need to distribute this multiplication by five to both the x and the negative two. Since in slope intercept form, y is all by itself on the left side of the equation, we're going to need to move this negative three term out of the left side. So we add three to both sides, since right now it's being subtracted. And we end up with a final equation of y equals five x minus seven. So, this equation. In our earlier equation should be equivalent or rather these should be equations that graph exactly the same line. To make sure that this equation fits the information that we used to create the equation end points slope form, lets see if the point we started are with lies on this line. We can already tell that the slope of this line is 5. So that gets rid of one of our criteria. Lets check each side of this equation done with the point 2, 3. One the left hand side we have y, and substituting in our value for y, we have 3. So the left hand side gives us 3. Now what about the right hand side? The expression on the right hand side of the equation is 5x minus 7. Let's see what that is equivalent to when we plug in our point. So you substitute 2 in for x. And for this side of the equation we also end up with 3. Since our left hand side and our right hand side match each other, we plug in our information. We're good to go. We have confirmed that this equation fits our information. So, I hope you can tell, that both point-slope form and slope-intercept form, are super useful for us, depending on what information we start out with in our problem. What if we know that a line goes through 2 points, 7, 4 and 3, 9? Let's see if we can come up with an equation for this. Instead of doing this all in one step though, let's break it down. First things first, let's find the slope. Please fill in this box for the value of m. And we get m equals negative 5 4ths. If you feel comfortable carrying out all the steps at once right now for figuring out the equation of this line and then putting it in slope intercept form, please go right ahead. Then you can check your steps by walking through what I'm doing afterward. Of course, there are also multiple approaches to this problem. I'm just going to show you the one that I think is the most efficient. Now that we found the slope, I would recommend using the point slope form substituting in our value of m that we just found and the coordinates of one of these points. What equation end-points slope form do you get? Remember, you can choose either one of these points. You could either have y minus 4 equals negative 5 4ths times x minus 7. Or if you used the other point, you could have y minus 9 equals negative 5 4ths times x minus 3. Finally, let's put this equation into slope-intercept form. Please put your answer in this box. I just chose one of our two possible equations in point-slope form to see what we end up within slope-intercept form. We should get the same answer regardless of which of these versions of the point-slope form equation we used. Either way, in the end, we get y equals negative 5 over 4x plus 51 over 4. Remembering, of course, that 4 is equal to 16 over 4. So we have this equation written in slope intercept form now, which is great. But it's kind of yucky looking. At least, if you're me, and fractions aren't necessarily your favorite thing. There is however, yet another form of a linear equation that we can use to rewrite this, and maybe make it look a little bit more pleasing. And that is called the general form of, of linear equation. We can rate a general form of the general form proven to your equations as Ax plus By equals C where A, B and C are all constants. In addition to this, we have one more little requirement. One thing that's not allowed is for A and B to both be equal to 0. If that was the case of course, this term would be 0. And this term would be 0 as well. So we would just end up with the equation 0 plus 0 equals 0 which maybe true but isn't a linear equation because there are no variables in it. What the general form does then, is basically shift everything on the variable to one set of the equation and shift all the constant terms to the other side of the equation and then of course combine whatever constant you have into one number. So let's play around with this. Since the coefficient in form of y doesn't have to be 1, it can be some other constant in general form. Let's get rid of these fraction. What I'd like you to do then is to multiply both sides of these equation by some number so that there are no more fractional coefficients or constant terms. Try however, to make this number you multiply both sides by the smallest number that you could use to get rid of the fractions. Since the denominator of our fractions on the right side is 4, to get rid of the fractions, we just need to multiply both sides by 4. Remember that since we're multiplying this whole side by 4, we need to multiply each term by 4. The 4 distributes. And we get 4y equals negative 5x plus 51. Well, I like that a lot better. Now, I'd like you to write this equation in general form. In general form we just have all the variable terms on one side, and then a constant term on the other side. The only change we need to make to this equation then is to get the term with the x onto the left side of the equation. We just need to add 5 x to both sides, and we get 5 x plus 4 y equals 51. Let's look a little bit more at the general form for a linear equation. I'm going to do a little thought experiment concerning a, b, and c. Now what would you have if both a and b were equal to 0, but c was not equal to 0. Would you have an equation for a vertical line? An equation for a horizontal line? Would you have something that's not an equation at all? Or would you have a conditional equation? It actually wouldn't be an equation at all. If we substitute 0 into the spots for A and B, in the equation we would get 0x and 0y equals C and if the left hand side is just equal to 0 and that would require C to be 0 as well, but the questions specifies that c is specifically not 0. This can not work. This is not an equation. But what if A is zero and B is not, then what do we end up with? We would get a horizontal line. If A is equal to 0, then this entire first term is equal to 0, so our equation would just be by equals C. If we solve for y or isolate y, we have the equation y equals C over B. So, y equals a constant, which we know is the form of a horizontal line. We talked earlier about how a vertical line cannot be written in slope intercept form. Is it because the slope of the line is zero, the slope is not defined or the y intercept is zero? For a vertical line, the slope is not defined. Remember that if we want to find slope, it would take the difference between two y coordinates along this line, But then, because all of the x coordinates are the same, we would have to divide by 0, which we know is a major no, no. Or, at least, not allowed, if we want to define this slope. So we can't write the equation of a vertical line in slope intercept form. But what about the other two forms for linear equations that we know of? Can we write it in point slope form? Or can we write it in general form? Please pick yes or no for each of these questions. We cannot write the equation of a vertical line in point slope form. Here, the slope is going to be an issue again. We still can't plug in a single numerical value for the slope in this form of the equation, so we can't use it. But yes, we can write the equation for a vertical line in general form. This is one of the major powerful aspects of the general form of linear equations. Looking back at general form, or the general form of the general form, all we would need to do would be to set B equal to 0. That would make this entire term with a y in it equal to 0. And we would just have Ax equal C, which very easily could be become an equation for a vertical line like many we've seen before. Sometimes we want to convert equations from being in the general form to being in slope-intercept form, since it's easier to read off the slope and the intercept when it's written this way. Just real quick, try to do this with the equation 12x plus 5y equals 7. Right off the bat, let's remember what slope-intercept form is. You've probably got it but it never hurts to write it down one more time. We want to get this equation in the form y with an coefficient of 1, or course, equals mx plus b. The first thing we need to do then is to get our term with y to be the only term on the left side of the equation. So we need to subtract 12x from both sides. Then, to get the coefficient of y to be 1, you just divide both sides by 5. Then, if you're picky like me and you want the equation to be exactly in this form, we just rearrange the order of our two terms on the right-hand side. We're allowed to do this because of commutativity and we end up with y equals negative 12 5ths x plus 7 5ths. This is great. Now we can see right away that the slope is negative 12 over 5. And the y coordinate of the y intercept is 7 over 5. Back at the glasses expo, Grant has noticed what awesome flashy displays some of the other vendors have. He just got his little glasses wipers and his little sign. Investing in some advertising seems like a really great idea for his business. Unfortunately, Grant runs into a woman who works for an ad agency and she guarantees with her agency's help, Grant can make $5,000 in just 2 weeks. Of course, there is a price to pay. That will cost Grant $2,000 to work with them. If we assume that Grant earns money at a constant rate or in other words that the graph of profit versus time is a linear graph and a linear equation. How long will it take Grant to break even? That's what we want to figure out. Let's say that x is equal to the number of days since the answer released, and let's say that y is equal to Grant's profit in dollars. Thinking about the information that the problem gave us, what two points we know lie on our line? Note also, that making $5,000 means making a profit of $5,000. One point that we'll have is 14,5000. Since, after 2 weeks or 14 days, Grant will have a profit of $5,000. The other point is a little bit trickier. We know the ad agency wants Grant to pay them $2,000. So that means, at the start of his ad campaign, or after zero days have passed, he'll have a net loss of $2,000. So, the point 0, negative 2000. If this is a little bit tricky for you, not a big deal at all. I definitely see why this could be hard to figure out. Now that we know two points, what can we say the slope of our line is? Our slope is 500. Now that we have a slope and 2 points to choose from, please write an equation in point-slope form for this data. Don't simplify just yet. And remember, it doesn't matter which point you use. We have two possibilities. We could either have y plus 2000 equals 500x or we could have y minus 5000 equals 500 times x minus 14. Now please choose one of these equations to start with and rearrange it so that it's written in slope-intercept form instead. It's probably easiest to start with this equation on the left. Since all we need to do is subtract 2,000 from both sides. This gives us a final equation of y equals 500x minus 2000. Thinking back to what information we started off with, or what information we had after we calculated the slope for this problem. Did using point slope form to get us eventually to the slope intercept form of our equation, give us a short cut? Or did it actually give us extra work? We know that, in some cases, it helps us out. But was that the case this time? So actually, using point-slope form this time gave us extra work. If you look at which 2 points we had, one of these this first one, 0 negative 2000, is in fact the y interceptor of our graph. Since for slope intercept form we just need to know the slope and the y quadrant of the y intercept, we could have avoided all that work we did in the middle, using the point slope form. Instead we could have just written 500 in the place of m and the spot of b, negative 2000. The moral of the story is that point slope form is super, super useful in certain situations. But we need to think critically about which forms of equations we should use. Thinking not only about what kind of information we have but also the actual contents and meaning of that information. Now that we have our equation, it would be great if we could graph it. Here are four different lines, and which one do you think represents this equation? And the answer is line D. Note that the scale on the x-axis is that two days pass for every square we move over. Now on the y-axis, every grid line indicates another $1000 in profit. We can see that on our orange line, if we move over two days, we have to move up a $1000, and 1000 over 2 is 500. We also can see that the y intercept is at 0, negative 2000, which is what we're looking for. We know that this line represents this equation. So this line shows all of the pairs of x and y coordinates that satisfy this equation, make you see that the line is infinitely long, both in the negative and the positive directions. So thinking about what the situation we're dealing with and trying to represent with this equation actually is. Especially keeping in mind what x and y both stand for in the story with Grant, maybe you think that our graph is perfect just the way it is. You shouldn't change it. Maybe you think we should start at x equals 0 and continue upward, or maybe you think we should start at y equals 0 and continue upward. Take your pick. I think that we need to start at x equals 0. Remember that x stands for the number of days that have passed since Grant started using his advertising agency. We can't really have negative days, or at least in this situation that doesn't make sense. So I think that the graph should start here and then continue upward just as we had it. So this would just be omitting the values where we would have a negative number of days having passed. The last thing that we want to figure out is when Grant is going to break even from this investment in advertising. Remember that, the moment of break even is when profit is equal to zero. So please tell me how many days it's going to take for this to happen. If we're looking for profit equals 0, that means we're looking for the point on our line where y is equal to 0. That's just along the x axis. This is the x intercept of our graph and the coordinates of this point are 4,0. So that means that Grant will break even after just 4 days of using this ad agency. This investment is going to pay for itself in only four days. That seems like a pretty smart business decision to me. In the last lesson, an advertising agent told Grant that with her company's help, he can make at least $5,000 in two weeks. We said initially, that this meant that after two weeks, Grant's profit would be equal to $5,000. We dealt with a lot of equations in this course so far just like this one, but is this the best tool to use in this situation? As I see it, we have three options. We can either stick with describing this as profit equals 5000. We can come up with some other mathematical statement that would fit this situation better. Or we could just decide not to do any more math ever again. Pick which one you think is the best option. I think that we need some other mathematical statement. An equal sign just does not cut it here. Grant is not necessarily going to make exactly $5,000 in two weeks. He might make more than that. If you picked the last answer, I might be very sad. Math is wonderful. Anyway, we'll talk more about these other kinds of mathematical statements right now. So we need to find a way to use math to say that Grant's profit could be equal to $5,000, but it might also be more than that. Now what if I told you this sentence could be translated into math like this? Profit, some symbol we haven't seen before and then 5000. What then would you say this new symbol stands for? We know that Grant will make at least $5,000. So his profit will either be equal to $5,000, if he makes the minimum amount he can make, or it will be greater than that. So this symbol stands for, is greater than or equal to. Lets think a little bit more about this new mathematical statement, it doesn't show equality since this isn't an equal sign, and that means this isn't an equation so we are going to give it a new name, this is an example of an inequality, we'll see a few other types of inequalities a bit later on. Just looking at this one we have in front of us though does it tell us that Gram's profit has one particular value? How many different values for profit would make this inequality true? Do you think that no values for profit satisfy this? Think there's only one? Are there two? Or are there a lot? The answer is a lot. If all we know about Grant's profit is that it could be $5000 or more, then profit could be $5000, or it could be $5001, or $5002.50, or $120,000. Or any other number that's bigger than or equal to 5000. This means that there are a ton of numbers. Way more than just these ones I've written down here. In fact an infinite number of numbers that profit could be equal to. Well I, for one, have a pretty tough time trying to think about an infinite number of numbers. It would be great if we had a straightforward way to visualize this. Luckily, someone had the awesome idea to invent the number line, which is this wonderful visual device right here. A number line is basically a way of displaying all of the real numbers. We can represent whatever number or range of numbers we want to on the number line just by shading in certain positions on it. For example, since this dot is at the hash mark for negative 4, I have just plotted negative 4 on this number line. Even though I've shown the integers on this number line, we can also plot any point in between two integers, which is why all the real numbers can be shown on the number line. Notice that just like on the x-axis of a coordinate plane, numbers increase as we move to the right and decrease as we move to the left. I've labeled three points on this number line, A, B, and C. And I'd like you now to tell me what you think that each of these are equal to. What do you think the values at all three points are? A is negative 2.5, B is 0, and C is at 3.5. Going back to the inequality you came up with for Grant's profit, that profit is greater than or equal to 5,000, which of these 4 number lines do you think properly represents this inequality? This one is correct. We can see that 5,000 is included in the area that's shaded. And then, the teal line shows that every value to the right of 5,000 on the number line, or that is, every real number greater than 5,000, satisfies the inequality for profit. We talked earlier on last lesson about the fact that Grant wants to keep his budget for making nozzles under $10,000 this coming month. What inequality from these ones down here do you think best describes this sentence? The answer is this second one right here, which we read as nozzle budget is less than 10000. We have that Grant wants to spend under $10,000, so he wants his budget to be something less than this. Not anything greater than 10000 and not even anything equal to 10000. This last answer right here, that nozzle budget is not equal to 10000. Let's say that we have some number, n. And to the left of it on the number line is some number m. We're not exactly sure where it is but we know that it's located to the left of n on the number line. Which statement then, best describes the relationship between these two points? The answer is, this one, which we read is m is less than n. Remember that numbers increase as we move to the right on the number line and they decrease as you move to the left. So whether we're trying to write that one number is less than another number or that one number is greater than another number, the bigger side of this inequality sign is next to the larger number. Thinking about how we use this symbol, which of these statements is mathematically correct? There may be more than one right answer. Negative 5 is smaller than negative 1. It's the left of negative 1 on the number line, so we should pick negative 5 is less than negative 1. However, it's also true then, that negative 1 is greater than negative 5, since negative 1 is to the right of the number line from negative 5. So these are both correct answers. Let's talk a little bit about number line notation. There are two main ways that people use to show inequalities on number lines. One set of conventions uses dots, either open or closed, and the other set of conventions uses parenthesis, either square parenthesis or brackets, or rounded parenthesis. The closed dot and the square bracket are equivalent. And to one another or show the same inequalities. In the open circle and the rounded bracket show the same inequalities. Thinking about what you know about selecting numbers on number lines so far, which pair of inequalities do you think shows x is greater than negative 2 and which one do you think shows x is greater that negative 2? These two number lines on the left show the inequality x is greater than or equal to negative 2. And the two on the right are the ones that show x is greater than negative 2. Remember what we said very early on the lesson, that if a number is shaded, it's included in the range of numbers that are acceptable for the solution. X is greater than or equal to 2, says that x can be greater than 2, but it can also equal 2. So 2 needs to be included in this range of numbers, which is why this circle is shaded in. When we have x is greater than negative 2, x is not allowed to equal negative 2, so the circle is not shaded on the point negative 2. The rounded parentheses is supposed to show that all of the values greater than negative 2, including everything just up until negative 2, are included, but negative 2 itself is not. Intuitively, we can think of the square bracket as including the negative 2, because it's telling us exactly where this range of values cuts off, precisely at, but including negative 2. So keep in mind for the future which kind of bracket shows inclusion and which one does not. If instead we have that m is less than or equal to n this time, which number line shows all of the possible values that m could have. Remember a discussion of what these different notations mean. This number line is the correct answer. We know that m is supposed to be smaller than n or equal to n. So we need to have a bracket that includes n to square 1. And also select all of the values to the left of n on the number line. Another thing to note is that the quantity we're thinking about, which is m in our case, is conveniently written to the lower right-hand hand corner of the number line. You'll continue to see this on different number lines in the future with different variable names, depending on what we're searching for. Using what you've learned about inequalities so far, which of these mathematical statements down here are correct? Here are our answers. You've learned that inequalities have ranges of values that are solutions to them. So that means that if a number falls in this range, we can use it in the inequality to make a true statement. Some of these may be a bit confusing though. For example, 3 is less than or equal to 7. On a number line, if we're curious about all of the numbers that are less than or equal to 7, we would shade in all the numbers to the left of 7 on the number line. And then draw a square bracket to include 7 in that range. We can see that 3 definitely falls in this region. It is not equal to 7, but it is less than 7. And it only needs to fit one of the criteria implied by this symbol. It either needs to be less than 7, or it needs to be equal to 7. Similarly, the statement 8 is greater than or equal to 1 plus 7 is also true. When simplified, this of course gives us the inequality 8 is greater than or equal to 8. And you might at first think, oh my gosh, 8 is not greater than 8. However it only needs to be greater than or equal to 8. It's equal to 8 so that's enough to satisfy this inequality. We can see the difference here then, between this symbol, the greater than or equal to, which implies inclusion of 8, versus the just greater than sign. This statement is true. Whereas this statement is not, because 8 is greater than 1 plus 7, only allows for the greater than criterion, not the equal to one. 1 plus 7 no longer fits the bill. Here's a list of inequalities for you. And for each one, I'd like you to tell me which number it says could be greater, a or b, or neither. And then also, tell me if the inequality says that a and b could be equal to one another. So here are your answers. Please note which of these expressions allow for a and b to be equal, and which ones don't. Know that the two inequalities that do not allow the possibility of equality between a and b, are the two strict inequalities, where inclusion is not allowed. So you would use the round parenthesis on the number line if we were to indicate these. We've looked at a lot of different equalities and inequalities that use these symbols up here. What I would like you to do now, is translate each sentence I've written here into an equality or inequality by inserting one of these relational symbols into each of the boxes. Pick the one that you think fits each description best. Take a second to look at the answers that I've written here. The two that I personally get most confused about are the two that end up with less than or equal to signs in the answers. Saying that Grant wants to employ no more than 15 staff means that he can employ any number of people up to 15, but then can't go any higher than that. So 15 is the highest number he can employ, and then he can also pick any number less than that. Similarly, if Grant will pay at most $5 per week, it means he can pay any amount up to $5. So this is the same sort of relation as in the other problem. We just said that the amount of cleaner fluid that Grant needs is greater than 50 liters. So if we decide to call the amount of cleaner fluid x, then we'll have x is greater than 50. How would you represent this inequality on this number line? Notice that the 50 hash mark is right here, and I've put a question mark on that to indicate that you need to pick which of these symbols belongs at the 50 mark. Then also please tell me, which side of the number line we should shade in. This means that x can be any real number to the right of 50 on the number line, since these are the numbers that are greater than 50. But this range doesn't include 50. So we need to pick the parentheses that doesn't show inclusion; this round one. Reflecting on your recent experience with number lines, what inequality do you think that this number line right here represents? Please remember that the variable that this number line is assigning values to is located over here. Type your answer in this box. The variable that we're dealing with here is x, and the number line shows that x is less than negative 4. What if we had this number line instead? What inequality should we write in the box now? Our variable is z, so let's of by writing that and z is greater than or equal to negative 1. We saw earlier that Grant wants to employ no more than 15 staff. Now, if we let x equal the number of staff, then the inequality that we came up with before for this would say x is less than or equal to 15. Now my question is whether or not this is actually the best way to describe this situation. Think about hiring, and whether out of all the real numbers, the only restriction that we should place on x is that it's less than or equal to 15. Or, if there's another restriction you should place on this. Remember that the unit here is people. So keep that in mind. Should we leave this or should we change it? I think we should change it. So, why? Why do I think we should change it? Well, if we look at the inequality we have right now, and we plot it on a number line, we get this. We have a square bracket at 15, and all of the numbers to the left of 15 on the number line are shaded. But notice that this includes numbers that are less than zero, negative numbers. And it doesn't really make sense, considering number of staff that has to do with people, to have a negative number of people hired. Since we know that the other number line just isn't cutting it, which of these four do you think would be a better choice? This last one is the best choice. We still want to cap the number of people that Grant can hire at 15, still including 15. But we also want to make sure that he doesn't hire a negative number of people. So we put the end of our range at 0, but including 0, because technically, he wouldn't have to hire anyone. Now that we've selected this number line, what does this actually tell us about the value of x? We know that it has to have something to do with 0 and something to do with 15. But what exactly? I'd like you to pick one condition from the left column and from the right column that you think fits x. And then also whether both of these conditions are true, in which case you should pick and. Or, if only one of them might be true at a time, pick or. If we only look at the area surrounding 0, we see that we've shaded to the right of 0 and also included that point. So, that means x is greater than or equal to 0. Now, if we only look at the area surrounding 15, 15 is included and then, we shade to the left. So, x is less than or equal to 15. Every number within this range that's shaded is both greater than or equal to 0 and less than or equal to 15. So we pick and. Right now, we have two separate statements about the values that x is allowed to equal. But looking at our number line, there's only one area of the number line shaded in. [unknown] then, it would seem that we could write this as a sort of connected inequality, combining these two inequalities together. So, how would you guess that we could write this as, what I'm going to call, a chained inequality? Insert the inequality symbols that you think belong in this two boxes. We can write 0 is less than or equal to x, which is less than or equal to 15. X is greater than or equal to 0 can be written in, in a different way, as 0 is less than or equal to x. Now if we put this side by side with our other inequality and we match up the x's in the same spot, we end up with this compound inequality. Here's another number line for you to look at. How shall we express the values of x shown here, as a compound inequality in chained notation like we saw on the last example? The answer is negative 2 is less than or equal to x which is less than 6. The negative 2, with its square bracket, is included in the range, but the 6, because of the round parentheses, is not. There's another kind of notation that we can use to describe the fact that x can equal anything within this interval of values. Thinking about our number line here, which of these four representations of this interval do you think fits our situation? Notice that the two symbols to enclose the ranges of values listed down here are square brackets and round parentheses, just like we see on our number line. Since up here, we have a square bracket to include the negative 2 in our range, and we have a round parentheses to not include the 6, we'll just match those with either end of the interval that they belong to down here. So this is the correct answer. This kind of notation that we just used is called interval notation. Here's another number line for you. How would you represent this inequality, shown by the number line, using interval notation? We know that the values here lie between 4 and 8, so I'll start by writing those numbers. The 4 is not included in the range, and neither is the 8. So, this is our answer. In order to use interval notation to write the possible values that x can have, we need to figure out the lower bound and the upper bound of this interval. I think the lower bound will be too difficult in this one, but I'm curious about what maximum value you think x can take on. Please pick. Do you think it's 0, 5, 10, or, do you think there isn't one? There isn't one. We can see that we have an arrow pointing to the right side of the number line, in the filled-in section for x, which means that the set of values that x can equal extends forever in this direction, in the positive direction. X can equal any number greater than 5. There's no upper limit. Now there you thought a little bit about what x can equal. Can you write the set of possible values of x using interval notation? Please type in the parentheses or brackets that we need in the tail boxes and then for each light blue box, please select one of the values down here, for either one, as the number that belongs there. The lower limit of this inequality is 5, but we can see that it's not included in the interval, so we need a round parenthesis. We said that there is no maximum value that x could take on. That means that the possible values of x could extend to infinity. And, whenever we have infinity in an interval, we need to use a round parenthesis. Infinity isn't a number that we can have a hard stop at. It can't be included in an interval, because it's bigger than anything we can quantify. So, we have to use a round parenthesis. If you had trouble getting this, no big deal. I know this is a pretty new concept and definitely a new notation with the infinity and how to use it with parenthesis. But, now you know. Here's another number line for you to look at. And this time, I'd like you to type in the entire interval of values that y could equal. Don't forget to use your proper notation. Since our shaded area of values for y ends in an arrow pointing to the left, the lower limit of this interval is negative infinity. There is no lower limit, in other words. We can see that the interval ends at 30, with a square bracket, so 30 is included in our interval. We know that this is the same as y is less than or equal to 30, which means that y can have any value that's either 30 or something lower than 30. And remember, we have to use this round parentheses next to our infinity, even it's a negative one. Early on, we saw that if we have a compound inequality that's written in a chained form like this, it's really the same as having two inequalities joined together with an and. We know that with this inequality, x needs to lie between negative 2 and 6, where 2 is included in the interval. So it's true that both x is greater than or equal to negative 2, then we have x is less than 6. Let's graph each of these individually on a number line, and then, the compound inequality on a third one. First we have that x is greater than or equal to negative 2, or in other words, that negative 2 is less than or equal to x. Then we have, x is less than 6. And then if we graph these two together, what we're really doing is finding the shaded part of the number line between the two that overlaps. So, if for example, I lay this number line on top of this number line, and I then shade in the part that's overlapping, I get exactly what we have in the compound inequality down here, because of the and. We have a double restriction happening, and that further reins in the values that x can equal to this smaller range than we would have if we had either one of these true on its own. So when we see the word and, it means that both of these inequalities must be satisfied for the value of x. What I'm curious about is what changing this word to or does to the relationship between these two inequalities and how that's going to affect our number line, or our range of values that x is allowed to equal? Does it mean that neither of these inequalities needs to be satisfied? Does it mean that only one of them at a time is allowed to be satisfied, not both? Does it mean that at least one of them needs to be satisfied, but that both could be? Or does it mean that both of these inequalities need to be satisfied? The word or means that either this inequality or this inequality needs to be satisfied. But it doesn't rule out the possibility that both of them could be satisfied. So, the third answer is the best choice. Now that you have an idea about the difference between what and, and or denote with inequalities. I'd like you to match each of these number lines on the left with the compound inequality that it represents. These are definitely a little bit tricky. And I know that or is kind of a new concept for us. But just give it a try. Start with the ones that you're sure about. And then move onto the ones that you're not totally positive about. This first inequality here, negative 2 is less than or equal to x and x is less than 6 is choice c. This is the one we already talked about. We know that the area shared by the two inequalities here is the one that needs to be shaded in, which is just this area. Now let's try an or. Negative 2 is less than x, or x is less than 6. This is definitely tricky. The way that I like to try to graph these, is to start by putting the proper parentheses or brackets at the proper places, and facing the proper direction. So, first we have negative 2 is less than or equal to x. I come down to negative 2, and I know this needs to be a square bracket because of the less than or equal to. And I know that values of x are going to lie to the right of negative 2 and including negative 2, so I put a square bracket facing to the right. Now, we have this or x is less than 6. So I come over to 6, and I put a round bracket facing to the left, since x is less than 6. Now, or means that all acceptable values of x will either fulfill this criteria, or this criteria. So that means that, they'll either be in this range, anything greater than or equal to 2, or they'll either be in this range. And of course anything in the middle is fine, too. So this is the entire number line shaded in. That's choice A. Probably not what we would've expected when we just looked at this. You can see what a huge difference there is when we switched from and to or. Nagative 2 is less than or equal to x and x is greater than 6. Start with a square bracket pointing to the right at negative 2. And this area needs to overlap with some area that's graphed by the x is greater than 6 line. We know that if we graph this first inequality, it's going to be everything greater than or equal to negative 2. And the second inequality is going to share everything that's shaded by that line that's greater than 6. So, the only thing we actually need to shade is this section, the greater than 6 part. So that's choice D. And, finally, our last one. Well, we know the answer must be B, because that's the only one that's left, but let's graph it anyway. Negative 2 is less than or equal to x. So as before, square bracket at negative 2 pointing to the right. Or, x is greater than 6, so that give us this. That means that we need all of these values that are greater than or equal to 2 to be filled in, because we need to include all the values that fit either of these things. Everything that's greater than 6 is also greater than or equal to negative 2. So the number line for this looks exactly like the number line for this inequality alone would look. That's choice B. Now that we have number lines for all of our compound inequalities, can you write these inequalities using interval notation? The range of x for this first inequality goes from negative infinity to positive infinity. Remember, of course, that we need the round parentheses, not including the infinities. The second goes from negative 2 including negative 2 up to infinity. The third starting at negative 2, including it, up to 6, not including it. And the last one starting at negative 6 but not including it and up through infinity. Let's say we have a compound inequality x is less than 3 or x is greater than 7. How do you show this on a number line? Please fill in what parenthesis or brackets you think belong in either of these two light blue boxes. And then also check off which of these three regions you think should be shaded in. I'll assume that if you shade in either of these two regions on the ends, you'll want the shading to extend forever in this direction or in this direction. Depending on which end you shade. If you shade in the middle however, I'll assume it's only between 3 and 7. We would show x is less than 3 like this. And if we were to graph x is greater than 7, we would get this. Since we have an or, we know that we need to have both of these regions here. So you should have checked this and this and put two round parentheses facing outward. You notice that this number line looks pretty different from other number lines we've seen before. And that there are two separate regions that are shaded in, There's not one region that's all connected but two disconnected regions. How then will we show this in interval notation? Well, we know that if we only look at x as less than 3, this would be the interval we would have. And, if we were only to look at x as greater than 7, we would have this. Remember that interval notation shows us what the minimum and maximum values that x is limited to are. And, of course, whether or not those are included are shown by the brackets. But, in this case, we need to include both of these regions. We do this by showing a u between the two of them. This u here, stands for union. All the values that it can take on are shown by having a union of this region with this region. We're taking all these numbers from both areas and putting them together in one big heap. X will be somewhere in that one big group of numbers. Here are two number lines for you, and for each them I'd like you to write the solution in both interval notation and as compound inequalities. Let's start with this first number line. The first shaded region down here starts all the way out at negative infinity, and comes up through negative 9, including negative 9. So we have negative infinity to negative 9 united with negative 6, which is not included up through positive infinity. Written as a compound inequality, this should be read as y is less than or equal to 9 or y is greater than negative 6. Of course, noting that our variable here is y as shown at the edge of the number line. For the second number line, our interval goes from negative 4, including negative 4, through 8, which is not included. The inequality for this would be read as negative 4 is less than or equal to z is less than 8. We could also write this of course, using an and. Negative 4 is less than or equal to z and z is less than 8. As much as we've talked about Grant, we haven't talked about his actual product that much. I think it's time that we discuss some of the specifics of wiper blade engineering. Now in general, Grant aims to have his wiper blades be exactly 2.5 centimeters long. Please note that this drawing is not to scale. However, in the manufacturing process things aren't perfect. To acknowledge that, Grant has created a tolerance range that wiper length is allowed to meet. As long as the wiper is within 3 millimeters of this total length, either 3 millimeters longer or 3 millimeters shorter, then it's acceptable and can be put on the market. Let's call the blade length in centimeters of a given wiper x. What we're really concerned with then, is the difference between x, the blade length, and 2.5 centimeters, the target blade length. If x is longer than 2.5 centimeters, then you want the difference between x and 2.5 centimeters to be less than or equal to 0.3 centimeters, which is the same as 3 millimeters. However if x is shorter than 2.5 centimeters, then you want the difference between x and 2.5 to be greater than or equal to negative 0.3. Since x could be something like 2.4, if it's shorter, and 2.4 minus 2.5 is negative 0.1, which is greater than or equal to negative point 3. Taking into account all the possible values of x, we want both of these things to be true. So, we need to insert an and between these two values. If we were to show this range of values for x minus 2.5 on a number line, you would get this. The region is, just like shown in our inequalities, symmetric about zero. Looking at the compound inequality we have, which we can also write in interval notation, of course. Seems like, considering we have the same number, almost, written twice, just one of it with a negative sign. There should be some sort of simpler way to write this. It's not exactly redundant right now, but it seems a little bit redundant. What we really know is that we want the difference between 0 so we want the distance it takes from on a number line to get from 0 out to either end of the tolerance is just .3, either in the positive direction or the negative direction. One way we can denote this is by using what's called absolute value signs. We can think of the absolute value of a number as the distance between that number and 0. This distance is absolute in that it ignores direction. We can see that counting from positive point 3 back to zero takes us point 1, point 2, point 3. But the same is true of negative point 3. Point 1, point 2, point 3. So positive point 3 and negative point 3 have the same absolute value, because they're the same distance from zero on the number line. Now that you have an idea of what absolute value is, can you tell me what the absolute value of negative 9 is? And what the absolute value of 4 and a half is? The number line is here just for you to have a visual in case you feel like counting on something. The absolute value of negative 9 is just positive 9. If we mark negative 9 on the number line and we count back to 0, you'd have to count 9 spaces. The absolute value of 4 and a half is just 4 and a half. Let's say that we have some real number a, that is nonnegative. As in, a is just not negative. It's either zero or it's positive. What then can we say the absolute value of a is equal to? And if make a negative, if we multiply a by negative 1, then what is the absolute value of that number? Absolute value of positive a is just the distance from that to 0, a minus 0is just a. But the same is true of negative a. It takes just as much distance to get from negative a to 0, as it did from a to 0. So that's the absolute value of negative a is a. So if a number is positive, it's absolute value is just equal to itself. And if a number is negative, we get the absolute value by multiplying that number by negative 1. Absolute value signs are sort of like a type of parenthesis, in that when we use them with expressions, we simplify the part of the expression that's inside the absolute value signs, before we deal with our entire quantity in relation to other things. So, I'd like you to find the absolute value of each of these quantities, and when you do that, first simply what's inside the absolute value signs, and then take the absolute value of that number. So, our answers here are 7, 7, 17, and 17. Note that, as I suggested, I simplify what was inside the absolute value as my first step. So for example, here, I said, first off, 12 minus 5 is 7, rewrite the absolute value signs around that and the absolute value of 7 is 7. Please note that none of these answers are negative. These four numbers at least are all positive numbers. Keep that in mind as we move forward. Thinking about what you've learned so far, what do you think the absolute value of 0 is? The absolute value of 0 is just 0. On a number line 0 is right here and the distance it takes to count from 0 to 0 is 0. So the answer is 0. Like I mentioned before, it's often useful to think about absolute value in terms of distance on a number line. Here, I've marked the points 5 and 14. So, if I want to count from 5 up to 14, it's going to take me 9 spots. The same is true if I want to count from 14 back to 5. It's going to take me 9 places along the number line to get there. So once you get from negative 12 to 5, I can see with my number line that it is going to take me. I'll spare you counting, 17 steps. Considering we know that this distance is 17, which of these following absolute value expressions shows that distance? The answers are, the absolute value of negative 12 minus 5 and the absolute value of 5 plus 12. You can see that these are both equal to 17, although this one takes the absolute value of negative 17, and this one takes the absolute value of positive 17. So, we do still have the distance between negative 12 and 5, can be shown either by taking the absolute value of negative 12 minus 5, or by taking the absolute value of 5 plus 12. You'd think, though, that there would be a consistent method for finding what goes inside the absolute value signs, or finding the distance between two points. And, if fact there is. I'd like to remind you that 5 plus 12 is actually equal to 5 minus negative 12. So I'm going to rewrite this absolute value expression in this way. So considering this idea what would you say that the absolute value of 14 plus 7 is the distance between? What are the two points that this measures the distance between? The absolute value of 14 plus 7 measures the distance between 14 and negative 7. Notice that in the example of the distance between negative 12 and 5, we could find this two ways. So we either have negative 12 minus 5, or if we go the other way, we have 5 minus negative 12. 14 plus 7 is the same as 14 minus negative 7. So the other way that we could write this distance will be by starting with negative 7 and then subtracting 14. Of course both of these gives the distance of 21, between 14 and negative 7. Let's look at an absolute value problem with an unknown in it. In fact, an unknown and an inequality. How do you translate this inequality that's written mathematically right now, into English? The distance between what and what is either less or greater than something. This says that the distance between x and 4 is less than 5. Of course, we know that you also could have the distance between 4 and x is less than 5, since the absolute value of x minus 4 and the absolute value of 4 minus x are equivalent to one another. They both measure the distance between these two points. We just said that we can translate this inequality as the distance between x and 4 on a number line is less than 5. Let's mark 4. Try to use this number line to visualize where you think x is allowed to lie. Considering what we know about how far it can be from 4. Then write down the interval form of the solution, and also the inequality form of the solutions for, for x. So again, first just figure out the range of solution on the number line that you think x is allowed to equal, and then just translate this into the 2 types of notation we know how to use. If the distance between x and 4 needs to be less than 5, then we can either count up 5 from 4, which takes us to 9, and draw a round parenthesis there. Or we can count down from 4 and 5, which takes us to negative 1, and we can write a round parenthesis there as well. Any area between these two points is fine as a value of x. Looking at this interval, this is something we definitely know how to handle. These solutions go from negative 1 to 9, non inclusive. And we can also write this as negative 1 is less than x is less than 9. Before we said that we can translate our absolute value inequality, to say that the distance between x and 4 was at most 5. Now, however, we have the distance between x and 4 is at least 5. How would you translate this into a mathematical expression? Just as a hint try to use some absolute value signs and an inequality. Right off the bat we know we have to deal with the distance between x and 4, so I can write the absolute value of x minus 4. And if this is at least 5, then I can translate that as, that this is greater than or equal to 5. So that's our answer. Now that we've come up with this new equality. The absolute value of x minus 4 is greater than or equal to 4. How should we show that on a number line? I've already selected three points for you where we may or may not need a kind of parenthesis or bracket. Those points are negative 1, 4, and 9. And, of course, those were all important when we were dealing with the absolute value of x minus 4 is less than or equal to 5. So, for each of these three points, please select which symbol belongs on the number line at that point. You'll notice I've also drawn four boxes down here for you. One for the area of the number line to the left of negative 1. One for the area between negative 1 and 4. One for the area between 4 and 9 and one for the area for the right of 9. I'd like you to check off which of these areas of the number line should be shaded in. If we know that we want the distance between x and 4 to be greater than or equal to 5, then we just start at 4 and count over 5 in one direction, and then shade in everything beyond that. So we get to negative 1, want to shade in everything to the left of that, since we want to be further away from 4. And we also want to include this point, because we have a greater than or equal to sign. And do the same thing in the other direction. Get up to 9. We know we want to go beyond that, but then also of course, include it. So, here is what you should have marked. Let's try one that's maybe a little bit trickier. What if we have the absolute value of 2x minus 4 is less than 6? First, let's start by treating 2x as a sort of package. Can you tell me what values it lies between? Also, please tell me what interval 2x is in on the number line? We know that we want the distance between 2x, wherever that lies on the number line, and 4 to be less than 6. So we can start at 4 and count over 6 in one direction. Let's mark that. And then over 6 in the other direction. So we know where we'll need to put symbols now. We want 2x to be closer to 4, then 6 units away. So these are the upper limits of the range it can fall in, and we need to shade in the area in between them. Neither end point is included because we just have a less than sign, not a less than or equal to sign. So these two values are negative 2 and 10. Written as an interval, we have this. Now let's talk about x instead of 2x. Thinking about what answers you got in the last quiz for the interval that 2x lies in, what do you think the interval x will lie in will be? Just as a hint, if you want to check your solution on a number line, when you plug in your values of x to 2x minus 4, the opposite value of that should still be less than 6. So, be sure to check your answers. Before, we had negative 2 is less than 2x is less than 10. To get x by itself, then, we just need to divide this quantity by 2. Since we want this to stay in the same relationship to these other two quantities as it is right now. We need to do the same thing to those quantities as well and we end with negative 1 is less than x is less than 5. This, of course, translates into the interval negative 1, 5. And, we can also plot it on our number line. To check, let's pick any random value in this region. Let's say, maybe a 0, since that's readily available. Let's see. The absolute value of 2 times 0 minus 4 is equal to 0 minus 4. The absolute value of negative 4 is just 4 and 4 is less than 6. So, that value works. We've just seen that if we have negative 2 is less than 2x is less than 10, you can divide everything by two. And we'll end up with negative 1 is less than x is less than 5. Let's look further into how we can solve inequalities. But this time we'll just start by dealing with single inequalities. Let's say I have 3x is greater than or equal to 12. Can you write an inequality in this box just for x. So I'd like you to isolate x on one side of the inequality and then have just a number on the other side. Dividing both sides by 3 gives us x is greater than or equal to 4. Let's check this on a number line. Here is what this inequality should look like on the number line. The number line is thus divided into two regions. There's one region over here on the left of values that x is not allowed to equal. And then the region on the right of the number line, that's all the values that x is allowed to equal take on. Let's pick one value from each, and see if they verify our solution. First, I'll pick a value of x that should work in the original inequality. Maybe, 6. 3 times 6 is equal to 18. And, yes, 18 is greater than or equal to 12. So that works. Now let's check a value from the left side, the area that's not shaded in. So when I plug in a value from over her to the original inequality, I should not make this true. A value from over here should not satisfy this. Let's pick 0. 3 times 0 is equal to 0, and 0 is not greater than or equal to 12, so this also confirms our solution. So, it works to divide both sides in an inequality by the same number to get a solution, or does it? What happens if we have negative x is greater than or equal to 4? Well, using the method we used before, we would divide both sides by negative 1. And we'd find that x is greater than or equal to negative 4. If this is right, then that means that this inequality up here, the original one we had, is satisfied by any value of x that is greater than or equal to negative 4. Now, last time I went through and I did a sort of sanity check, where I plugged in some test values that fit the solution interval we've come up with. And I plugged them in to the original equation to make sure that my answer made sense. Now, can you do the sanity check yourself this time, and tell me if this solution right here is correct? Just tell me, yes or no. No. If I plug in 0, which is definitely greater than or equal to negative 4, then I get that 0 is greater than or equal to 4, and that is just not right. Let's see what's going on here. We have something to figure out. I'm having kind of a hard time when I have all these x's floating around. So, let's just take it easy. Let's write a super simple inequality, maybe 1 is less than 2. Those are two numbers that I think I can handle right now. Let's check this on a number line to make sure that I'm not crazy. Well here's 1 and here's 2. We're going to look at just the range of values that is less than 2, and that is all of these values to the left of 2. 1 is definitely in this interval. But, I was looking at our earlier inequality, I ran into a problem when I divided both sides of the inequality by negative 1. I'll make some room here, and now, let's see what happens if I divide both sides of the inequality by negative 1. So, what number do we get on either side of our inequality, if we divide both sides by negative 1? Make sure you keep the numbers on the sides that they're on right now for the purposes of this answer. After that, I would like you to consider your answer, and tell me whether or not this makes sense. 1 divided by negative 1 gives us negative 1. And 2 divided by negative 1 gives us negative 2. Now let's look at our number line again. Of course what's shown right now is the original inequality. We're just going to use the number ticks for a second. Negative 1 is to the right of negative 2. It's greater than negative 2. So no, this definitely does not make sense at all. Just like with an equation, if we do the same thing to an inequality, we should be able to find some way to keep the statement true as we move down through our manipulation. So let's say, I'm super committed to dividing both sides of this by negative 1. What inequality do we need here then, in between the negative 1 and the negative 2? Please fill in the proper symbol in this box. Negative 1 is greater than negative 2, so we need a greater than sign. Let's look at the two number lines for these two inequalities. Let's say that this time, I want to see if the 2's are correct in relation to the 1's. So, I'm going to draw these number lines from the perspective of the number 1's. So, I want to know if 2 is greater than 1. That means it should fall in the category of all numbers that are greater than 1. Start at 1 I need to shade to the right. Sure enough here's 2, smack dab in the middle of that range, well not in the middle but in it and that's all that matters. Now we want to know if negative 2 is in fact in the range of numbers that are less than negative 1. Let's go over to negative 1 and shade to the left of negative 1. And once again we have negative 2 as part of that interval. Awesome. Comparing these 2 number lines, looks like we have pretty much exactly the same thing, except that the intervals here are fractions of one another across the 0 mark. So if I match the 2 of them together on 1 number line, can see that we have the exact same thing to the right of the 0 as we have to the left of the 0, just inverted. This is pretty cool. So, dividing by negative 1 is just like flipping everything to the opposite side of the number line. So, when we divided by negative 1, we flipped our point of reference across the 0, the same distance away to the other side of the number line. And that's why we had to switch our sign, so that it faced the opposite direction as well. The two numbers now have the opposite relationship. Since being further away from zero than another number on the positive end of the number line means that you're greater than that other number. Whereas being further from zero than another number on the other end of the number line; the negative side means that you're less than that other number. Now that we've talked a little bit more about changing coefficients and sine issues of inequalities. Let's try a few problems. For each one of these solutions, I've already written the x for you. And in the orange box, I'd like you to fill in an inequality sign, so greater than, less than, greater than or equal to, or less than or equal to. And in the teal box, I'd like you to fill in the number that this is relating x to. For number one, we need to divide both sides by negative 5. 35 divided by negative 5 is negative 7. And, because we're dividing by a negative number, we need to flip the sign of the inequality. So it goes from being a less than sign to a greater than sign. We can go through this similar process for the rest of the problems. And, here are our solutions. What if we have negative x over 8 is greater than 2. What inequality could you write for x then? Remember we want to fully isolate x. We can think of negative x over 8 as x divided by negative 8, since the negative sign can go either with the numerator or the denominator. It just belongs to the fraction as a whole. That means to get x by itself, you just need to multiply both sides by negative 8. On the left side, that leaves us with x. On the right side, we have negative 16. But, just like before, we have to flip the sign direction. We get x is less than negative 16. As always, I'm going to check my solution with a number line. X is less than 16 is this region over here. Let's pick one value inside this region, and see if it satisfies this inequality. Negative 20 is over there, so negative 20 over negative 8 is just 5 over 2, or 2 and a half. 2 and a half is greater than 2, so we're good on that. Now let's pick one value to the right, in the region where values that we plug in should not satisfy this inequality. I'll pick zero, since it's always my favorite number to pick. Zero divided by anything, including negative 8, is just equal to zero. And zero is not greater than two, so this also confirms our solution set. So we can see that whether we divide or we multiply both sides of an inequality by a negative number, we have to switch the sign of the inequality. Remember, division and multiplication are very, very intimately linked. So now we know how to divide and multiply with inequalities. In fact, inequalities seem to be just like equations, except that if we multiply or divide by a negative number, when we're doing an inequality, we need to flip the direction that the inequality faces. So, lets try a slightly tougher one now. We have 3x plus 2 is less then equal to 11. Now 11 happens to be my favorite number in the entire world, so treat it well when you're solving this inequality. Please solve for x and write the inequality that you get in this box. We treat this just as if we were solving an equation, except that of course, we have an inequality sign running throughout. We're dividing by a positive number, this positive 3, not a negative one, so we have no funny business with the signs. And our final answer is, x is less than or equal to 3. And of course, you should check your answer. But by now, you know how to do that, so I'm not going to take the time to. Just one more question, and then you'll have a few more practice questions to have some fun with. What if we have 12 is less than 4 x? I'd like you, however, to put the x on the left side of the solution, and then fill-in what inequality symbol belongs here. Input answer belongs on this side. You might want to check on either side of the endpoint of the inequality or the dividing mark between the solutions and the non-solutions to see if you have the inequality sign the right way around. If we divide both sides by four, we end up with 3 is less than x. However, I had said that I wanted x on the left side of the inequality. So that means we need to flip this whole thing around. The whole thing becomes a mirror image of itself. Then we have x is greater than 3. Here are a few more problems for you to try. They're definitely going to get a little bit trickier. But you have all of the skills that you need, and the understanding that you need to solve them properly. So just give them a try. I'm going to momentarily make these problems at the bottom small and just show you the answers to the first three. Then we'll move onto the last two later. So here's the work and the answers for the first three problems. We have x is less than negative 3, x is greater than or equal to negative 2, and x is greater than three. Of course with this last one, we started out with x on the right side of the equation, and some people prefer to put the variable on the left side in the answer. So if you want to follow that convention, then to get x onto the left side, you also need to flip the inequality so that it's facing the opposite direction. Saying that 3 is less than x is also the same as saying, x is greater than 3. And now moving on to our last two problems. And after several steps we end up with x is greater than or equal to 4 and x is greater than 4. Grant has decided that he wants to diversify his product base. He's created a new kind of wiper set to add to his glasses family. This is the Deluxe Duo, a set of glasses wipers unlike any other every created. They have superior wiping power and non function curly qs for decoration on the ends of them. With them. Now, as silly as these glasses wipers might seem to you or me, Grant has a reason for creating them. He can charge a lot of money. In fact, of just one set of deluxe duo glasses wipers, he can charge $75. This is big money in the glasses wiper business. If we let the number of deluxe glasses wipers sold equal m, and Grant's total profit in dollars from them equal p. Then I've created an equation for you that describes his profit based on the number of deluxe glasses wipers he sold. You know $75 is how much he charges per pair of deluxe glasses wipers, and $5000 is the amount of money that he had to put down to invest in the materials and everything he needed to start building these. So, we have an equation, and we have a wonderful product. Grant as we know is ambitious, he wants to make at least $20,000 in profit off of these deluxe glasses wiper sales. So knowing that, what inequality can we write combining our earlier equation with this new information about his profit. Since we know that Grant wants his profit to be at least $20,000 and p stands for profit in dollars. We know that p has to be greater than or equal to 20,000. Now we just have a simple case of substitution, p is equal to this entire quantity, 75m minus 5,000. So you replace p here in the inequality with that quantity. So here is our final answer. 75m minus 5,000 is greater than or equal to 20,000. Let's use our lovely new inequality. Now think critically about this. What is the minimum number of wipers that Grant must sell to reach his desired profit? Please fill in the proper value of m right here. Manipulating this in the ways that we've practiced gives us m is greater than or equal to 333 and 1 3rd. Let's look at this on a number line. So, m can be anything to the right of, or including, 333 and a third. But wait, what are we talking about anyway? What was m equal to? M is equal to the number of deluxe wipers sold. Now, you can't sell a third of a wiper set, so that means we're going to have to make m into a whole number. Now, if we make it 333, then we won't quite make it to our $20,000 profit level. So, that mean that we're going to have to round up. M has to be greater than or equal to 334 wipers. Well, I'm going to leave our number line looking just like this, because these would be about in the same place. You can just imagine that our bracket has shifted slightly to the right. What we want is the minimum possible value for m, so the smallest value in this range of possible solutions. That, of course, is going to be just this endpoint solution, 334 exactly. So we want m equals 334. Let's have another look at an inequality involving an absolute value sign. We have the absolute value of x is less than 5. Now, I'd like you to get rid of the absolute value signs around x, in a mathematically correct way, of course, and write the solution as a chained compound inequality. Remember, that's a compound inequality where we get rid of the and sign, and just write everything as one connected mathematical statement. The answer is negative 5 is less than x is less than 5. Let's look at that on a number line. We know that the distance between x and 0 needs to be less than 5, so it can be any value between negative 5 and 5 on the number line. We've just seen how we can write an absolute value inequality. Which we see, involves only 2 things related to one another, into a compound inequality. Where we have 3 quantities related to one another. And, of course, I've used G notation. This is because when you take the absolute value of a number. You're creating an upper and a lower bound for its size. Going off of this, what if we had the absolute value of 3x minus 5 is less than 4. How could we write this as a chained inequality? For right now just leave the quantity 3x minus 5 as a single blocked unit. We get negative 4 is less than 3x minus 5, which is less than 4. Now that we've rewritten this as a compound inequality, we know how to solve for x. So please isolate x by doing the same thing to all three sections at once. Then write your answer in these three boxes. I have been really nice, and I've already filled in your inequality signs for you. So you just have to fill in the quantities that go in between them. And our final answer, using the manipulation tactics we've learned before, is 1 3rd is less than x is less than 3. Awesome job working with absolute value and inequalities. I know this actually pretty difficult stuff so, thank you for sticking with and for thinking deeply about it. We've been working so much with inequalities that I'm not sure I even remember how to solve an equation. You may recall this is an equal sign and when we isolate x on one side of an equation, we're finding actually a single value that it's equal to on the other on the other side. Or at least that's what we're doing as long as there's one number over there. Anyway, just to get our brains jogging about equations again and to make sure you haven't forgotten everything you've learned in this class, let's solve this equation. Now before you go through all the steps of solving this, I'd like you to start by writing the two fractions on the left hand side of the equation as a single fraction. So find the common denominator, figure out how that changes the numerators and then combine like terms. The least common multiple of 2 and 3 is 6. So we know that that's still going to need to be the denominator of our combined fraction. To change the fraction x over 2 to have a denominator of 6 instead, we need to multiply it by 1 in the form of 3 over 3, since 2 times 3 is 6. For x over 3, we need to multiply it by 2 over 2. If this step was tricky for you at all, please go back and review fractions again. It's never too late to do some extra practice. Carrying out this multiplication gives us this. And then we just need to combine like terms. We end up with 5 x over 6 equals 4. Now, let's finally solve for x. What should x equal, if we have 5x over 6 equals 4? We know that 5x over 6 is just the same as 5 6ths times x. So to get rid of this coefficient of 5 6ths, we just need to multiply each side by its reciprocal, which is 6 5ths. And we end up with x equals 24 over 5. Let's check our answer just to be sure. We plug 24 over 5 back into the original equation. We're going to start by just working with the left hand side of the equation and seeing if what we end up with is equal to the right side. 5 times 24 over 5 is just 24, and we leave the denominator the same, since we didn't do anything to it. 24 over 6 is 4. The left hand side simplifies to 4, which is equal to our right hand side. So we are good. Okay, so clearly we haven't totally forgotten how to solve equations. That's awesome. It's going to help us a lot in algebra moving forward. Let's look at a new equation. We have 3 over x minus 1 over 5 is equal to 7. Just like the last example, we have two fractions, but this time there's not an x anywhere in the second fraction. We have two choices as I see it, or at least two choices in terms of how to start the problem. The first choice that I see is the first step we could take, would be to combine the two fractions that are on the left-hand side. That's definitely an option. But there's another choice. We could isolate the terms, or term in this case, involving x on the left-hand side and move everything else over to the right-hand side. I have a feeling that it's going to be a little bit less work if we go with the second option. I'll put a link to how to do the problem in the other way in the lesson notes. But for now, let's go with this method. So our goal right off the bat is to get this term by itself on the left-hand side. So for the equation that I want you to write in this box, I would like you to isolate the term with x on the left-hand side. Get everything else on the right-hand side and simplify it so that it's written as an improper fraction. What do you get then? All we need to do is get of this term of negative 1 5th on the left-hand side. To do that you just need to add 1 5th to both sides. 7 and 1 5th is equivalent to 36 5ths. So we have 3 over x equals 36 5ths. In the new version of the equation we've come up with, we have an x as a denominator, and we don't really want it there. So, I'd like you to solve for x. And, just as a hint, you could probably start by multiplying both sides of the equation by x. What do you get as your final answer then? Going through the pretty typical steps to solving this equation gives us an answer of x equals 5 over 12. Be sure to reduce your fraction. I initially ended up with 15 over 36. But 15 and 36 share a common factor of 3. Dividing both the numerator and the denominator by 3 gave me this final answer. Here is another equation. 3 over x minus 1 over the quantity 5x is equal to 7. Again, we have choices about what to do first. I'm going to say that I'd like our first step this time to be to combine the two fractions over here on the left hand side. We can see that x is involved in both these fractions, so it seems like a pretty logical first step to take to me. So if we decide to do that, what should we make the denominator of the single fraction we'll have here on the left side? Make sure that this is the least common denominator we could have. The answer is 5x. 5x is the least common multiple of x and 5x. We just need to multiply both the top and the bottom of the first fraction by 5. Now that we know what the denominator of this single fraction over here needs to be, please combine these two terms, and then write the fraction as simplified as you can get it, in this box. We're just going to leave the right side of the equation the same for now. So we're not doing anything that changes both sides of the equation. We're just simplifying within the left side right now. Remember that to get that common denominator in both terms, we need to multiply the first term by 5 over 5, so the denominator becomes 5x. Then we just combine our like terms, and simplify. This gives us a new equation of 14 over 5x equals 7. Now, I'd like you to just solve for x. Just like we did before, we need to multiply both sides by the denominator of the single fraction on the left-hand side. Status 5x. Isolating x gives us x equals 2 over 5. And of course, you want to substitute this back in to check and make sure that it works. Let's go back to the equation that we started this whole problem off with, 3 over x minus 1 over 5x equals 7. So we already solved the problem one way and that was to combine our 2 fractions into 1 and then proceed. However there is another method, and it's always good to explore a little bit more. The second thing that we could start off by doing, would be to Get rid of our fractions right off the bat. And we know that the way we get rid of fractions is to multiply fractions by numbers. So, let's think about what number we could use. Since x of the denominator of the first fraction on the left hand side, let's start off trying with that. What equation do we have if we take the single step of multiplying both sides of this equation by x? Fill in the left side that we'll be left with here, and the right side that we'll be left with here. You can of course, combine like terms and simplify on either side of the equation if you want to. I just don't want you to do anything else that modifies both sides of the equation. We know that we need to multiply both sides by x. But, what does it mean to multiply this entire side of the equation by x? Well, it means that multiplication by x needs to distribute to both terms on this side of the equation, since we're multiplying the entire side by x. 7 times x is, of course, just 7x. Then we can distribute and simplify the left-hand side, x times 3 over x just gives us 3. And x times negative 1 over 5x gives us negative 1 over 5. And in the end, we get 14 over 5 equals 7x, which of course looks like what we had before. In the last quiz, we started off by multiplying both sides by x, since that's the denominator of this first fraction. But what if instead we picked 5x? That was after all the common denominator that we used the first time around that we tried this problem. So please, in these two boxes, fill in what the left-hand side and the right-hand side of this equation will be if we multiply each side by 5x. Again, you can simplify within either side as much as you want to. You remember that the 5x needs to multiply the entire side of the equation, and of course, both sides. So you just do multiplication by 5x to both terms. This time we get 14 equals 35x, which is also something that we had earlier. I think that multiplying by the lowest common denominator of our two fractions initially helped us out a lot. Made this whole process much easier in fewer steps. So that's a good tip for moving forward in the future. If you want to get rid of your fractions right off the bat, then the factor that you should multiply everything by should be the least common denominator of all of your fractions that you want to combine. Speaking of fractions, here's another equation, with yet another fraction involved. We've just been talking about how many different ways there are to start problems, especially those involving fractions. So for this problem in particular, if we'd like to solve for z, what do you think our first step should be? Should we start off by simplifying the fraction? Should we multiply both sides by z? Should we multiply both sides by 3? Or should we multiply both sides by 3z plus 6? We should definitely multiply both sides by 3z plus 6. That will make it so that our left hand side doesn't have a fraction at all. We've got a little bit of a leg up on this problem, since we've already determined our first step. So I'l like you to take that first step, and then take all of the others, and just right here, give me your answer for z. What should z equal to satisfy this equation? After a series of various steps, all of which you're pretty familiar with, we end up with a final answer of z equals negative 3. And of course, it's super important to check our answer. We just plug negative 3 in to the left side of the equation and negative 15 over negative 3 is indeed equal to 5, which is what our right-hand side equals. So we're good. Since we love fractions so much, let's just maximize our use of them. We have a fraction on the left side, 6x minus 5 over the quantity 7 minus 3x. And we also have one on the right, 4 minus 8x over the quantity 4x plus 2. We just saw how effective it is to try to get rid of our denominators, that at least, leads us to a point where we can start to manipulate this in ways that we can get x by itself. But here, we have two denominators, we have one on the left and one on the right. I'd still like us to get rid of them and we know that we do that through multiplying by them. So in this box, I'd like you to write out the entire equation you'll get at the very first stage, where you no longer have fractions in this equation. So I don't want you to multiply anything out I don't want you to distribute or simplify on either side. I just want you to get this to a place where there are no more fractions. Let's start by considering the left side. To make this no longer a fraction, we need to multiply both sides to the equation by its denominator. However, doing that alone doesn't help us with the right side. To deal with this fraction, we need to multiply both sides by the quantity 4x plus 2. Now let's see what that leaves us with. On the left side, multiplying by 7 minus 3x gets rid of the denominator, but then we still are multiplying by this other factor. I made a mistake and forgot to write our parentheses around this entire factor we're multiply by. That's super important, and clearly, it's very easy mistake to make. On the right-hand side, since we're multiplying by 4x plus 2, that deals with the denominator. But we still have a factor of 7 minus 3x. Wonderful. This is our final answer. The next step I'd like you take is to simplify within each side of the equation. So carry out this multiplication and then combine like terms. Do not however, yet, do anything that changes both sides of the equation. Just simplify within each side. Multiplying each term in the first set of parenthesis by each term in the second set of parenthesis. And doing this, of course, for both sides gives us this long messy thing. Thankfully, it will start to look a little bit prettier in a second. Now we need to combine like terms. Our like terms are of course, as we can see, terms that have an x to the first power in them. And for now, we're only going to do that within either side of the equation. Of course, it doesn't matter what order you have the terms in either side of the equation in. So let's say, for example, you have 24x squared as the first term in the right-hand side. That's totally fine. And now, finally, I would like you to actually solve for x. What does x need to equal in order to satisfy this equation? The first step we need to take, and this is actually a little bit tricky, is to recognize that we have a term of 24x squared on both sides of the equation. That means, if we subtracted from both sides, we'll just get rid of it entirely. That's definitely going to make our lives simpler. Now, I'm going to move all of my x terms, so that they're on the left side of the equation. And all of my constant terms, so that they're on the right. All that's left to do is divide both sides by 60. Recognizing that 38 and 60 are both divisible by 2, we can cancel out that common factor, and get a final answer of x equals 19 over 30. Awesome. I know that was a really, pretty intricate and complicated equation to solve. But look at where we came from. We started off with all of these messy fractions, and we ended up with, well, an answer that is a fraction, but it's an answer nonetheless. I'd like you to plug this answer into the places of x in the original equation, to make sure that it actually works. Please remember to check the left hand side on its own, and the right hand side on its own, and then compare the two. If we look back at our original equation, 6x minus 5 over 7 minus 3x equals 4 minus 8x over 4x plus 2, what does each side individually simplify to if we plug in the value of x that we just calculated? So substitute in 19 over 30 in each spot of x for the left-hand side first and then enter the answer that, that equals here, and then the right-hand side. So this is a lot of work. But that's important. It's good to practice your arithmetic, good to practice manipulating fractions, and multiplying things. Lucky for us, both the left-hand side and the right-hand side simplify to negative 4 over 17. So our answer of x equals 19 over 30 is correct. Now here's something we haven't seen in awhile, a square root sign. We have the square root of the quantity 2x plus 4 is equal to 5. And just to jog your memory of the relationship between exponents and square roots, please rewrite this entire equation with the square root replaced by the proper exponent. Remember to take into consideration what the exponent should apply to, which terms it should apply to. Remember that square root signs are the same as exponents of 1 half. So, you need to take the entire quantity 2x plus 4 place it in parenthesis and then, just outside the parenthesis put a power of 1 over 2, and we didn't do anything to change the right hand side of the equation at all. Now that we've reminded ourselves of what a square root sign actually means, what do you think the next step in moving towards solving our equation should be? Remember, we want to get x by itself on one side of the equation eventually. So should we start off by multiplying both sides by the quantity 2x plus 4? Should we multiply both sides by the square root of 2x plus 4? Should we square both sides, or should we multiply both sides by 2? Clearly these are all steps that we could take and would be legal in the context of solving equations. But which one will actually move us as close to our answer as we can get in one step? We need to square both sides, doing, that's going to get rid of our exponent of 1 half on the left-hand side. And, of course, squaring a number is just going to give us another number. So this is the best choice. Now that we've determined what our first step should be, squaring both sides, please take that step, and then continue on until you get a final value for x. What does x need to equal to make this first statement true? First things first, we square both sides, just like we decided to. Squaring the left-hand side just gets rid of this exponent of one-half, and we get 2 x plus 4. 5 squared is 25. So, 2 x plus 4 equals 25. Now, things are super easy. We keep doing our regular old algebra until we get to a final answer of x equals 21 over 2. This, of course, is equivalent to 10.5, so you could have that as well, or 10 and one half. Let's check this just to be sure, since this is sort of a new kind of equation for us. Dealing only with the left hand side of the equation, I plug in 21 over 2 in the spot of x. We get to the square of 25 which is, of course, 5. And this works. So this new equation was super fun to solve. It was great. We knew exactly what we were doing. But what if we change one little tiny thing? What if I make this a negative 5, instead of a positive 5. The question I have for you is, is this an equation that we can solve? In other words, is this an equation at all? Tell me, yes or no. And the answer unfortunately is no, we can't solve this. Remember that when we used the square root sign without any sign explicitly indicated outside of it. This gives us the positive square root of whatever quantity is inside. Because we know then for sure this quantity on the left is positive, there is no way that it can equal a negative number. Which is what's on the right side. So even thought we now know how to solve a ton of different looking equations, probably a lot of which it didn't seem at first like we did know how to solve, there are some that are just not mathematically possible. That has nothing to do with our math expertise, though. And you've done a really, really awesome job, on this lesson and on the ones before. To help you review for the second exam, we're going to look back now through lesson 17 through 26, and the material we've covered during that time. Let's get started. We begin by developing and understanding of functions. We ask the question, what is a function? As you learned, a function pairs each input value with exactly one output value. Which means we can figure out if a graph represents a function by using the vertical line test. We then looked at domain and range as well as explored what it means for a function to be either even or odd. From there, we investigated the overall shape of a function. Going all the way from minus infinity to infinity in the domain, looking at whether it's increasing or decreasing, and whether it has maximum and minimum points. This led to a discussion about finding real zeros, which, as you remember, are the x coordinates of the graph's x intercepts. And we used a polynomial long division to help us along the way. To help us narrow down the list of possible rational zeroes for a polynomial function we used the Rational Zero Theorem. When we couldn't find the exact values of zeroes that we could see on graphs, the intermediate value theorem helped us approximate their locations. With Piecewise Functions, we got to put together some really interesting graphs, and start thinking more about domain and range. This prepared us to work with rational functions, whose vertical, horizontal,and slant asymptotes restrict their domains and ranges in particular ways. Lastly, we explored Transformations of Functions. Rigid transformations include vertical and horizontal shifts as well as reflections in the x and y axis. Nonrigid transformations, on the other hand, distort the shape of functions by stretching or shrinking them. We encourage you to review the practice problems at the end of each lesson, the problem sets and the summary review videos. Best of luck to you. We know you'll do well. [BLANK<u>AUDIO]</u> Congratulations, you've just finished the first piece of this Udacity course. Now that we've talked about a number of new ideas, let's take a few minutes to summerize these topics. We've talked about classification of numbers, algebraic terminoligy, simplification of expressions, and subsitution. Let's try a few problems to review. Let's think back to our world of numbers. This picture might look familiar to you, but notice that it doesn't have the names of the sets of numbers we've talked about on it. Please take a minute to match the letters with the appropriate sets. So here is your solution. Take a second to look at the placement of each name, and recall how this diagram actually works. Any circle that's contained within another circle is a subset of that larger set. For example, natural numbers are a subset of the whole numbers. This means that if a number belongs in a certain category it also belongs in every category that surrounds that circle. So all natural numbers are whole numbers, and integers, and rational numbers, and real numbers. Now that our world of numbers is labeled with categories, let's put some numbers in it. Here are a bunch of numbers. Type the letter that corresponds to each number in the proper box in the diagram. Remember, that on the diagram, numbers are positioned in the smallest set they belong in or is far into the graph as they can be placed. Please take a minute to look at the placement of each letter. There are a few numbers you may have wanted to place in several positions. For example, you may have been tempted to write 3 as an integer, as a whole number, and of course a natural number. However, the correct placement on the graph is for the number to be placed in the smallest circle it can be placed in. Remember, by placing a number in the smallest circle, you are placing it in all of the larger circles that surround the smallest circle. Please look at the problem below and put it in its most simplified form. So, you might have noticed that x^2 and 6x^2 may be combined to 7x^2. And for now, we're going to leave the rest of the expression as it is. So now, the next thing I noticed with this expression is that we need to multiply the quantity x+2 times 7x^2-1. This gives us 7x^3-x+14x^2-2, and we'll leave the rest of the expression the same. So, our next step is to distribute the 4 with everything inside the parenthesis. When we do this, inside the parenthesis, we get 28x^3-4x+56x^2-8 and we'll leave the rest of the expression the same for now. So, our next step is to distribute the -1 in front of the parenthesis with everything inside and combine like terms. This gives us our solution of -28x^3-56x^2+7x+1. Now, let's review substitution. Recall the last problem we did, -28x^3-56x^2+7x+1. Please substitute in -2 for x and evaluate the expression for -2. So the first step is to substitute a -2 for x throughout the expression. The next step is to just simplify 224 - 224 - 13, leaving us with the solution of -13. In the last few lessons, we have learned a lot about exponential and logarithmic functions. We have learned how to recognize their graphs, and evaluate points on their graphs. We looked at how to manipulate exponential and logarithmic functions, how to switch between them, and when we could not evaluate logs, how to change their bases. Lastly, we looked at the relevance of these functions in our daily lives. We hope you will reviewed the material in both the practice sets and the problem sets. Best of luck to you, we know your going to do well. So, welcome back. Now you've completed some more work on Grant's glasses. You looked at simplification of equations, you looked at graphing, and finding equations of lines. And you also looked at calculating the midpoint and finding distances between points. Let's review some problems. Let's begin by reviewing solving equations. Here's a problem for you to try. Let's solve for x. There are variety of ways that we could start this problem. But we're going to start by multiplying both sides of the equation by 4 and then distributing the 3 with the quantity x plus 2. You can continue simplifying the problem combining like terms. This gives us negative 62 equals 9x. You can now divide both sides by 9, and our solution is negative 62 divided by 9 equals x. Here's an expression for you to simplify. There are a variety of ways that we could start this problem. I'll start by simplifying what's under the radical sign, and distributing the 2x with the quantity x plus 1. So if you look at what's under the radical sign, the square root of 2x cubed, broken out, that's the square root of 2 times x squared times x. x squared comes out as x times the square root of 2x. And next, we're going to distribute the 2x with the quantity x plus 1. This gives us x times the square root of 2x, raised to the fourth power, plus 2x squared, plus 2x. Now, let's simplify what's in the parentheses. This gives us 4x to the 6th, plus 2x squared, plus 2x. &gt;&gt; I've drawn a few lines for you to look at. &gt;&gt; Please type the letter of the graph that represents each equation. Take a few moments to look at the solutions. Also note that there are two types of equations, vertical and horizontal. represented amongst these four equations. Now please tell me the slope and y-intercept for each equation. &gt;&gt; Please take a couple of minutes to look at the solutions. &gt;&gt; You might notice there are two special types of lines we've talked about before. &gt;&gt; The first one being a horizontal line, which has a slope of 0, &gt;&gt; And the second one a vertical line which has an undefined slope. &gt;&gt; And note that it has no y-intercept. Here are two points, u and c. Please find the distance between these two points. Recall the formula for finding the distance between two points. Substituting in the formula for u and c, we get. And when we simplify, we obtain the square root of 25 plus 9, which gives us the square root of 34. Great. I bet you thought you are done with this problem, but not quite yet. Let's keep going. We want you to first, find the midpoint between u and c, so let's try that now. Recall how we determine the midpoint between two points. Our x coordinate is found by adding the two x coordinates and diving by two, and the y coordinate is found by adding the two y coordinates and dividing by two. Once we plug in our points, we obtain a midpoint of three halves and nine halves. Find the equation of a line that is perpendicular to the line uc and goes through the midpoint between u and c. In order to complete this question, we need to brainstorm the process to do this. So, first of all, you're going to want to find the slope of line uc. Then, you're going to want to find the perpendicular slope to uc. And finally, use the slope intercept form, y equals mx plus b, to find the equation of the line. Let's take a couple [of] minutes to look at the solutions. When we're looking at the slope of line 'uc,' you can see that our slope works out to be 3/5. Finding the perpendicular slope is then relatively easy. We find the inverse of the slope, which is negative 5/3. Now it's time to find the equation of this line. Let's first recall our midpoint, 3/2 and 9/2, and our perpendicular slope, which is negative 5/3. Please insert those values into the point-slope form and solve. And our equation in slope intercept form is y = -5/3 x + 7. We have learned a lot of new material recently. We talked about linear equations. We talked about inequalities and absolute value. Now let's review. One useful way to represent a line is using the point slope form. If we know the slope of a line, and a single point that the line goes through, we can use this formula to express the equation of a line. Let's say you have a line that goes through the point 4, 7 with slope of negative 3. What is the equation of that line? Well, the point slope formula takes a point written as x1y1 and a slope m. The equation is then, y minus y1 equals m times the quantity x minus x1. In this situation our point is 4,7 and m is negative 3. So the answer is y minus 7 equals negative 3 times the quantity x minus 4. We also learned how to simplify equations by pulling out a common factor. Can you factor out the common term in this expression? The 8 and 12 share 4 as a common factor. They each share an x and a y as well. So the factored version of this would be, 4xy times the quantity 2x plus 3y. We learned that absolute value really represents the difference between two numbers. How would you write the following sentence as an absolute value equation? The distance between x and 8 is less than 3. The distance between x and 8 is represented as the absolute value of x minus 8. Since that must be less than 3, the solution is absolute value of x minus 8 is less than 3. Looking at this statement, the absolute value of x minus 8 is less than 3. How would you write the solution to this inequality using interval notation? We can write negative 3 as less than x minus 8 which is less than 3. Adding 8 gives us 5 is less than x, which is less than 11. We also saw that some equations which don't initially look linear actually are. Can you solve the following equation for x? Noting that x cannot equal negative 4 and x can also not equal 0, since that would make the denominator 0. Multiply both sides by the denominators, the quantity 4 plus x and 2x, not forgetting the parentheses. Distribute. Subtract 6x squared and 23x from both sides and simplify. Add 4x to both sides, then divide by negative 27. And the answer is 4 over 27. &gt;&gt; The past few videos, you've learned about quadratics, inequalities and parabolas. We hope you're seeing how math relates to real life. Now let's practice some more. &gt;&gt; Let's say that we have this graph right here. What can you tell me about it? Please notice that the axis is marked in increments of 2. Where is its vertex? What are the coordinates of the x-intercepts? Where is the y-intercept? &gt;&gt; The vertex in this case is the lowest point since our parabola opens upward. That lowest point or the minimum is at 1,-9. The x-intercepts are at 4,0 and -2,0. As we can see from where the graph intersects the x axis and the curve hits the y axis at the point 0. Negative 8, so that is the y intercept. &gt;&gt; Which of the following equations describes this parabola? Remember that we can easily see what the equation of a parabola might look like if we just think about what its x intercepts are. These are the points where y equals 0. So one of those factors needs to be the x minus 4, since that factor as a whole will equal 0, when x equal 4. And the other needs to be x plus 2, since that will be 0 when x equals negative 2, our other x intercept. So y equals x minus 4 times the quantity x plus 2 must be the correct answer. How would you write the equation for this parabola in standard form? Remember that, in general, the standard form for equations of parabolas is, y equals ax squared plus bx plus c. We just need to distribute multiplication of what's inside the first set of parentheses to what's inside the second set. Doing that gives us y equals x squared minus 2x minus 8. &gt;&gt; Let's look at another equation for a parabola written in standard form. How about y equals x squared plus 3x minus 18? Can you factor the right side of the equation? The equation is, y equals quantity x minus 3 times the quantity x plus 6. &gt;&gt; What are the x-intercepts of the graph of this equation? As we can see from the factored form, the x intercepts are 3, 0 and negative 6, 0.. Can you name two other points that lie on this curve? Pick any two that you want to, as long as they are not the two we've already identified. &gt;&gt; As long as you picked x and y coordinates for each point that satisfy this equation, you got it right. There are an infinite number of possibilities, but here are a few. Zero, negative 18. Four comma ten and negative five comma negative eight. But remember, there are an infinite number of possibilities. &gt;&gt; Which graph matches this equation? &gt;&gt; This one we can see that it passes through our 2x intercepts and the rest of the points on the line satisfy the equation. We just need to pick one other point and test it out to make sure that it works since three points is the smallest number that you need to uniquely define any parabola. For our final problem, let's look at a quadratic inequality. X squared plus x minus 2 is less than or equal to 0. Please solve. In order to solve this quadratic inequality we need to first factor. When we factor we get that quantities x plus 2 and x minus 1 are less than or equal to 0. This gives us our critical points of x equal negative 2 and x equals 1. So if you look over here at our number line, we have our number line with the critical points on it, and we will begin to look at which intervals are true or false. So now you can see we have 3 intervals. We have an interval from negative infinity to negative 2, from negative 2 to 1, and from 1 to infinity. So if we pick a point in each interval and check to see if it's true, we'll find out where out solution set lies. So, let's check in our first interval, negative infinity to negative 2. Let's select the point negative 3. So we select negative 3 in interval negative infinity to negative 2. You can see we obtain the solution of 4, 4 is not in the interval negative infinity to negative 2. So we selected three points, let's look at x equals -3 first, when we substitute that in, we get 4. Is less than or equal to 0 which is not a true statement. The second point we select is 0 we get negative 2 is less than or equal to 0 we can see that, that is a true statement. And the last point we selected 2 when we substitute that in we get 4 is less than or equal to 0 which is also not a true statement. So our solution lies between negative 2 and 1, including both of those points. Our solution is negative 2 is less than or equal to x, which is less than or equal to 1. Hi again. Sadly we've almost come to the end of our time with Grant. However, we wanted you to put a name with a face, so here's Grant. But we will help Grant with one more problem in the coming lesson, since he's learned almost everything he needs to know to deal with the finances of his wiper business. For now let's spend a little bit of time reviewing the topics we've discussed in the past few videos. Parabolas and vertex in standard form, using the quadratic formula and transformations of parabolas. Let's look at the following equation of the parabola in standard form. 4x squared plus 16x plus 14 equals y. Please move this from standard form into vertex form. So first, let's group our x terms. We subtract 14 from both sides to obtain 4x squared plus 16x equals y minus 14, then we complete the square. First, we have to obtain the coefficient of 4 so that we can add 4 times 4 to both sides and simplify. Giving us a solution of 4 times the quantity x plus 2 quantity squared equals y plus 2. So now let's find the vertex of this parabola. From this, you can see the vertex is negative 2 comma negative 2. Now let's look at a graph of a parabola and determine the equation in vertex form. This is fairly straightforward. We can see that the vertex is at negative 3, negative 1. And if we look at how wide the parabola is, we see that it follows the normal parent parabola. The equation is y plus 1 equals the quantity x plus 3 squared. Now let's try finding the solutions for this quadratic equation, 9x squared plus 24x equals negative 16. First, let's check and see if we can easily factor this equation. We need to move the 16 over so that we have 0 on one side of the equation and everything else on the other side. Then we need to try to think of two numbers that multiply to equal 9 times 16 and add to equal 24. Since we can't find two numbers like this, we can't easily factor this. Since we can't easily factor, let's try and substitute into the quadratic formula. We must determine our values for a, b, and c before substituting. Because our discriminant is equal to 0, we have only one solution, which is negative 4 3rds. As a final review problem for now, we're going to try transforming parabolas. First, let's begin with our parent equation, y equals x squared. What happens if we were to move the equation down like this? Now, what would the equation of the graph be? The solution would be y plus 2 equals x squared. So now let's look at our original parent equation of y equals x squared. What happens if we multiply that parent equation by 2? Does it open facing the opposite direction? Is it wider? Is it narrower? Or does it face the same direction? Pick all that apply. And the solution is, it's both narrower and faces the same direction. Similarly, let's try multiplying that parent function of y equals x squared by negative 1 half. Again, compare to the graph of y equals x squared and figure out whether it's facing the opposite direction, wider, narrower, or facing the same direction. Our solution is that the new graph is facing the opposite direction and is wider. Since your first midterm exam is coming up, let's talk about how to review the topics we've covered this far. Our journey with Grant began way back with talking about variables and expressions which we then combined into equations to help him start figuring out a plan for this glasses wiper business. First, he dealt with linear equations and inequalities, how to graph them and how to solve them. Once we encountered situations where Grant needed parabolas and their corresponding quadratic equations, we figured out how to handle those as well. Along the way, we've worked with every category of real number that we talked about at the very start of the course, as well as a new classification of number, complex numbers, which have both real and imaginary components. You've learned a ton about algebra in the course so far, and you may be wondering, how do I study for all of this material? And how do I take a test on the Udacity site? Well, we've come up with a few tips to help you out. Go back and look at practice questions and problem sets for Lessons 1 through 16. I also recommend watching my review sessions and redoing the problems that come after them. Make sure that you're comfortable using MathQuill, since you'll have to input some answers in the test using it. You can look at the MathQuill overview page on the wiki and you can go back to quizzes in the units that use MathQuill and practice typing things in there. Also, make sure you're comfortable working things out on paper, as well as typing them. Best of luck, we know you're going to do great. After this first midterm, we'll be moving on to a second case study, a new context for learning about Algebra. We're sad that our time with Grant is over, but he's going to be just fine handling his glasses wiper business now that we've taught him so much about math. And now, we get to study something new and exciting, architecture. This is going to help us learn about functions, specifically higher order polynomial functions and rational functions and give us a lot of pretty things to look at and understand mathematically. This last lesson before the midterm, sort of stands out on its own, and w're going to do a review section to make sure you've got a grasp on this complex new material that we covered. Just as we started out the course with building up our knowledge of sets of numbers, we're going to round up this section of the class by revisiting this and acknowledging how we've built off of it. As a review of everything that we've learned about sets of numbers, here is a blank version of the full world of numbers diagram. And I would like you to type the name of each set into the proper position on the chart. All of the numbers that we've worked with fall under the category of complex numbers. Complex numbers can have both real and imaginary components. So that means that real numbers and imaginary numbers are each subsets of the complex numbers. Within the real numbers, we have all of the same categories as we did before. Now that we've filled in the proper sets in the proper places in the world of numbers diagram, let's put some numbers in it. As you did early in the course, please place each of these numbers in the place it belongs on the diagram. Label the diagram with each letter in the appropriate box. I filled in the numbers in the proper spots. Irrational, integer, whole, natural, rational, complex, and imaginary. Now that we've looked at complex numbers in our world of numbers diagram, let's manipulate them a bit. Please simplify each of these expressions so that it is written in the standard form for a complex number, a plus bi. Remember, that when we add and subtract complex numbers, the imaginary parts are like terms and the real parts are like terms. So we end up with 1 plus 3i plus the quanity negative 6 plus 2i equals negative 5 plus 5i. 1 plus 3i minus the quanity negative 6 plus 2i gives us 7 plus i. When we multiply complex numbers, this needs to happen by distributing in the same way that we did with binomials involving, involving variables. The quantity 1 plus 3i times the quantity negative 6 plus 2i, gives us negative 6, plus 2i, minus 18i, plus 6i squared. Which when simplified, gives us negative 6, minus 16i, minus 6 or negative 12 minus 16i. And lastly, when we divided complex numbers, the final thing we need to do is to make the denominator into a real number, so that we can just let it modify the coefficients of the real and imaginary parts of the denominator. To change the denominator in this way, we multiply both the denominator and the numerator by the complex conjugate of the original denominator. So, negative 6 minus 2i in this case. Now let's look at the problem. 1 plus 3i, divided by negative 6 plus 2i, gives us 1 plus 3i, times the conjugate negative 6 minus 2i, divided by negative 6 plus 2i, times negative 6 minus 2i. Simplifying further, we got negative 6 minus 2i minus 18i minus 6i squared, divided by 36 minus 4i squared. Which gives us negative six minus 20i plus 6, divided by 36 plus 4 or negative 20i over 40, and finally negative i over 2. Now that we've worked with expressions for a while, let's move on to some equations. Please solve for x in the following equation. 3x squared plus 18 equals 0. Although there are a couple of different methods you could use for solving this, I'd like you to try to do it without using the quadratic formula this time. Please write the solutions in as concise a form as you can. So, when we simplify this, we subtract 18 from both sides and we get 3x squared equals negative 18. We then divide by 3 on both sides, we get x squared equals negative 6, giving us our solutions of x equals plus or minus the square root of negative 6. And when we pull out the negative 1 as an i, we get x equals plus or minus i times the square root of 6. This is two solutions, a plus i square root of 6 and a negative i square root of 6. And now for another equation, this time of a parabola. Here is the graph of a parabola for you. Now, first of all, what is the equation of this parabola in vertex form? Your solution is y plus 3 equals negative one third times the quantity x minus 2 squared. What are the roots of this parabola? List them with commas separating them. We can use a quadratic formula to solve this problem. First we put our answer in standard form, plug in 0 for y, and then substitute into the quadratic formula to obtain our two solutions of 2 plus 3i and 2 minus 3i. Hi everyone, welcome to the review session for this unit. In this unit you've learned how to determine a function, and how to recognize it from its graph. You can also describe the behavior of a function. Find the maximum and minimum, and determine if it's even or odd. Let's check your understanding with a few problems. Since we've helped Athena come to an understanding of what a function is, we are going to begin the review of functions with the equation y equals x squared minus 1. First, we want you to think about how you would determine whether or not this is a function. So consider that for a second, and type what you think you should do to figure this out in this box. So using what you just thought about, is this a function? Please answer yes or no. We would need to make sure that each element of the domain is paired with exactly one element of the range of the function. One way to do this graphically would be to draw the curve, and then, to use the vertical line test to see how many places this curve touches any given vertical line. If it never touches any vertical line more than once, then it is a function. And it looks like the answer in this case is, yes, this is a function. Let's look at this problem a little deeper. Can you find the domain and range of the function? Please write your answers in interval notation. If you answered all real numbers for the domain, you're correct. And the range is negative 1 to infinity. Finally is the function even, odd or neither, and how do you know this? As you may have noticed from the graph, this graph is symmetric about the y-axis, and is therefore an even function. As a review, if the function was symmetric about the origin, it would be an odd function. An example of an odd function would be f of x equals x cubed. Here is what the graph looks like. This graph is symmetric about the origin. Here is six graphs, please match each graph with the equation below. And the solutions are, f of x equals 2 x plus 3 corresponds with letter c. F of x equals x squared plus 6 corresponds with graph of the letter b. F of x equals 2 corresponds with f. F of x equals x cubed minus 1 corresponds with letter a, and f of x equals the absolute value of x minus 2 corresponds with letter d. And finally, f of x equals the square root of 3x plus 2 corresponds with letter e. Take a look at each of these functions. Please write in the domain and range of each function using inequality notation. As well include whether or not the function is even, odd or neither. So let's look at our first function, f of x equals 2x plus 3. The domain is all real numbers, as is the range. And, this function is neither even nor odd. Let's look at our second function, f of x equals x squared plus 6. Our domain is again all real numbers. Our range is y greater than or equal to 6. And this is an even function. Lets look at f of x equals negative 2. Our domain is again all real numbers, but our range is restricted to y is equal to negative 2. And this is an even function. Lets look at f of x equals x cubed minus 1. The domain is all real numbers, as is the range, and this is neither even nor odd. Let's look at the function f of x equals the absolute value of x minus 2. The domain is all real numbers. The range is y is greater than or equal to 0. And this is neither even nor an odd function. Our last function, f of x equals the square root of 3 x plus 2. Our domain is x is greater than or equal to 2 3rds. Our range, y greater than or equal to 0. And again, this is neither even nor an odd function. Hi everyone. This week we continued our work with functions, learning how to find solutions of higher order polynomials. We also worked on dividing polynomials, specifically using long division. You can now find all the possible real and complex zeros of a function. Let's try a few problems to practice what we've learned. We begin by finding the real roots or the real zeros, and sketching the graph of polynomial functions. So let's start by looking at this first function. Please take some time to find the roots of the function g of x equals the quantity x plus 2 times the quantity x Squared plus 1. Remember that the word root and the word zero mean the same thing, values of x that make the function 0. Please separate your answers by commas. So, luckily, this is already factored as much as it can be. We need to solve the equations, x squared plus 1 equals zero. And x plus 2 equals zero. The first one gives us i and negative i. And the second one tells us that the only real zero, or root, in this case, is negative 2. Remember, though, there are three solutions to this problem. I, negative i, and negative 2. For a second review problem, let's take a look at division of polynomials. We've learned two specific new strategies for determining all possible real and complex zeros of a function. Let's next take a look at long division. Divide the following. 4 x squared plus 20 x plus 24 by 2 x plus 6. We can see that when we divide 4x squared plus 20x plus 24 by 2x plus 6, we obtain 2x plus 4. Lastly, this problem will be a bit more challenging than the others we've done today. As we're going to use the intermediate value theorem to approximate the zeros of the following function. Please note that we are calling the independent variable here p instead of x. Remember that we can use any letters we want. When you substituted in for p, you should have gotten negative 11, 1 and negative 11 for solutions. Since we found that f of negative 2 is negative, and f of 0 is positive, then we can conclude that the function has a 0 between negative 2 and 0. And likewise, between f of 0 and f of 2. So, let's take a minute to look at the graph of f of p equals 1 minus 3p squared. We can see there are two different roots here. But for this problem, we're just going to focus on this one. You can choose any intervals you want to approximate the location of x intercepts, depending on how accurately you want to know their values. To approximate this 0 a bit more closely, we need to divide our interval into smaller sections than we did before. So, let's use a distance of 0.5 this time for the interval between -2 and 0. Please take a minute to fill in the missing information for f of x, and then answer the question, as zero is between blank and blank. Let's look at what we found when we substituted in our values of x for f of x. We obtain the values of negative 11, negative 23 fourths, negative 2, one quarter and 1. And from this information we find that a 0 is located between negative 1 and negative 0.5 Welcome back, we're moving fast through this course. This week, we've explored rational functions. We learned about how to sketch their graphs, find their domain and range, and any vertical and horizontal asymptotes. In our investigations, we also encountered slant asymptotes. Finally, we began looking at graphing and answer questions about piecewise function. As usual, we have a few problems from the recent work to summarize. Let's look at those now. To start our review, we'll look at the graph with the function f of x equals 1 over x squared minus 7x plus 12. This graph has lots of interesting features, but we'll start with some you're familiar with from earlier units just to make sure you haven't forgotten about those. We always want to know the x and y-intercepts. Does it have x and y-intercepts? If so, what are they? If not, type none. Separate multiple answers with semi-colons as necessary. As you know from earlier in the course, you can find the y-intercept by substituting in x equals 0. So, the y-intercept is simply f of 0 which as you can see gives us 1 over 12. Are there any x-intercepts? We have to solve f of x equals 0 as you can see here and when we solve that we get 1 is equal to 0 which is not possible, so that there are no x-intercepts. Now, for the asymptotes. Let's check for vertical, horizontal and oblique, otherwise known as slant, asymptotes. If it is not of a particular type, write none in the box. Separate multiple answers with semi-colons. Remember that slant and oblique are referring to the same type of asymptote. They may be used interchangeably. Vertical assymptotes occur when the denominator is 0. This means you have to solve x squared minus 7x plus 12 equals 0. So, we can factor this to x minus 4 and x minus 3 equals 0, which gives us the vertical asymptotes of x equaling 3 and x equals 4. To see if we have horizontal and oblique or slant asymptotes, we need to look at the degrees of the polynomials in the numerator and the denominator. As the numerator is just one, it has a lower degree than the denominator, which means that we have a horizontal asymptote. So, what is this asymptote? The horizontal asymptote tells me roughly where the graph will go when x is really, really big. And we can see that in this case, when the x gets bigger, that the function will move closer and closer to 0. So, the asymptote is y equals 0. And for e, we have no slant or oblique asymptote. Let's have a look at the graph with the intercepts and asymptotes you've just found marked on it. State if the function has a maximum or a minimum, and write the point in the box below. You can see from the graph, there is a maximum point here at 3.5 comma negative 4. Is it a global or relative maximum? Well, it's certainly not a global maximum. As all of these points over to the left and to the right pass the asymptotes, are above it. That means it is a relative maximum. Describe the behavior of the graph within the following intervals. Negative infinity to 3, 3 to 3.5, 3.5 to 4, and 4 to infinity. You may select from the following terms. Increasing, decreasing, or constant. Please put one of those in the boxes to the right. You may have noticed that the symmetric, so what happens on the left is reversed on the right. In the first region, we see the graph starts off at the horizontal asymptote y equals 0, and rises to the vertical asymptote of x equals 3. We can also say it is increasing at the y-value of each point, as we move right, is greater than the y-value of the point before. In the last region, it's the opposite. It starts at the vertical asymptote and falls to the horizontal one, this means it's decreasing. At x equals 3, we have an asymptote. And the curve to the right of that rises from negative infinity up to the maximum that you found in the question before at 3.5 comma negative 4, before falling again towards negative infinity as it approaches the asymptote x equals 4. In the previous example, we didn't have any slant or oblique asymptotes, so let's take a look at those now. For the function f of x equals 3x squared plus 2 over x indicate any slant asymptotes. We can find the slant asymptotes by using long division, and dividing the above function. 3x squared plus 2 divided by x. When we divide that, we get 3x plus 2 over x. As x gets larger, the term becomes infinitely smaller, and we move toward the line y equals 3x, which is our slant asymptote. Finally, we're going to review these really cool functions which put together, are called Piecewise Functions. Let's take a look at a graph of the following function. Match the pieces of the function with the region of the graph. You can choose from x squared, x plus 2, and 2, and please be sure to fill in the corresponding regions on the right-hand side. Fill in the blue boxes with the appropriate symbols and the green boxes with the appropriate numbers. For f of x equals 2. Our region is x is less than negative 2. The next part of the graph is our f of x equals x squared, and that is between the region of negative 2 and 2. And it's inclusive of that region as you can see by the less than or equal to signs. The third part is, f of x is equal to x plus 2 for all values greater than 2.