Welcome to Topic One. Topic One is broken into three lessons. In the first lesson, we'll discuss integers and integer operations, such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. In the second lesson, we'll discuss order of operations. And in the third lesson, we'll discuss how to calculate area and perimeter. Let's get started. Let's talk about number lines. Number lines like this one help us to visualize numbers. There are certain things that a good number line should have. What do you think they are? Arrows on each end, zero, marks to indicate scale, positive & negative direction. Please select all that apply. All of these are correct. A Number Line should have Arrows on each end, Zero, Marks to indicate scale, and Positive and negative direction. So here we have our lovely number line with 0 clearly marked, marks to indicate scale and a positive and negative direction. But what do the arrows at the ends mean? How far do you think these number lines extend on either end? Do they extend to the arrows as far as we want them to? To +100 on the right and -100 on the left? Or do they extend on forever? Please select one. [BLANK_AUDIO] The arrows at the end mean that the line goes on forever. Remember before, when I asked what you thought when you heard of the term infinity? Infinity means something that goes on forever without limit. Infinity can be positive or negative. This is how we write positive infinity and if we want to write negative infinity, we just write a negative sign in front like that. So, which is the largest positive value, is it infinity, one trillion, one billion, one quadrillion? Please select one. The answer is infinity. No matter how big a number you can think of, infinity is always bigger. There is something that we should add to our number line. On the right side, we can write infinity. And on the left, we can write negative infinity. These indicate that the number line goes on forever in the positive and in the negative direction. Now that we know so much about number lines, choose which of the following statements are true, negative numbers are always on the left of zero, positive numbers are always on the right of zero, every number line will always have the same scale, zero should always be marked on a number line. Select all that apply. Negative numbers are always on the left side of 0 and positive numbers are always on the right side of 0. So these two are correct. Every number line will not always have the same scale so this one's not correct. And this one's not correct either. While it's not required that you mark 0, it's really helpful to do so. Time for another quiz. Here's a number line. I have marked some points on the line with the letters A, B and C. In these boxes, please fill in what number each of the letters corresponds to on the number line. A corresponds to -3 on the number line. B corresponds to 0, and C corresponds to 2. [BLANK_AUDIO] Now let's plot some numbers. I want to plot the point -2 on this number line. And for this number line I want to plot 3, and for this one I want to plot 0. For each line, click on the spot where I should plot the point. -2 goes here, 3 goes here, and 0 goes here. What does the term absolute value mean? Absolute value represents the distance that a point is from zero. The important thing about absolute value is that an absolute value cannot be negative because distance can't be negative. Absolute value is represented like this with two vertical lines around a number or expression. So for example, if we're talking about the absolute value of negative five, it looks like this. [BLANK_AUDIO] So how far is negative five from zero on a number line? Write the number of units away it is here, and what is the absolute value of negative five, write your answer here. -5 is 5 units away from 0 on the number line. If we count back from 0, we get 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 5 units away. So then the absolute value of -5 should also be 5. Find the Absolute Value of the following, write your answers in the boxes The absolute value of -2 is 2. The absolute value of 0 is 0. The absolute value of -9 is 9, and the absolute value of 7 is 7. Remember that absolute value is the distance away from 0 and that an absolute value will never be negative. [BLANK_AUDIO] Let's talk now about adding and subtracting integers. Here's a vocabulary word you should write down. A Sum is the result of adding numbers together. Now if my bank account is overdrawn by $20 and I write a check for $15. What is my new bank account balance? Write your answer here. Don't worry about including a dollar sign. [BLANK_AUDIO] My bank balance would be negative $35. I start with negative $20, and I subtract $15 more to get negative 35. We can also think of this as adding negative $15. Let's use a number line to show my overdrawn bank balance. If I start here at $-20 and then I add -15 to that, I can see that I move further away from 0 all the way over to -35. We can see that when we add a negative number on the number line, we move toward the left. Which direction do we move when we add a positive number on the number line? Please select one. When we add a positive number on the number line, we move to the right. Let's practice a few more of these. On each of these number lines, click where the sum will end up for these expressions. So where on the number line will the sum of 3 and 2 end up? [BLANK_AUDIO] You should have clicked on 5, negative 5, negative 1, and 1. Remember that adding a positive moves us to the right and adding a negative moves us to the left. So when you add a positive number to another positive number, like in this example. You move to the right. So we start at 3 and move to the right 2 to end at 5. Here we start with negative 3 and since we're adding a negative we move to the left 2 to end at negative 5. Here we also started with negative 3 but we're adding a positive so we move to the right 2. To end at negative 1. And here we start at positive 3 and move to the left 2, since we're adding negative 2, and we end at 1. -4+-9=-13. 8+-6=2. 11+3=14. 5+-7=-2, and -2 + -3 + 6 = 1. We can break this up into smaller pieces. We can also write this as -5 + 6, because -2 + -3 is -5. [BLANK_AUDIO] Another method for adding integers involves using absolute value. As long as all the numbers we're adding have the same sign, that is they're all positive or all negative, we can just add the absolute value of the numbers together and then use the original sign of the numbers. For example, if we are adding positive 3 and positive 2, both 3 and 2 have the same sign. The absolute value of 3 is 3, and the absolute value of 2 is 2. So we can add the absolute value of 3 plus the absolute value of 2 to get 5. And then use the original sign that 3 and 2 both shared, which is positive, and we get positive 5. Here's where things get interesting. In the case where we're adding negative 3 and negative 2, we can take advantage of the fact that negative 3 and negative 2 share the same sign. They're both negative. We can take the absolute value of each number and then add those absolute values. So, what is the absolute value of negative 3, and what about negative 2. And what is the absolute value of negative 3 plus the absolute value of negative 2. Enter your answers in the boxes. The absolute value of -3 is 3. And the absolute value of -2 is 2. Remember, absolute value is the distance away from zero, and it can't be negative. So the sum of the absolute value of -3 and the absolute value of -2 is 5. That's because this is the same thing as saying 3+2. [BLANK_AUDIO] Okay so we know that the absolute value of -3 plus the absolute value of -2 was equal to 5. Now we have to remember to use the original sign from our original problem, which was -3 + -2 so the original sign was negative. Since both numbers shared a negative sign, we should put a negative in front of what we got when we added the absolute value of -3 to the absolute value of -2. So the answer here should be -5. So for these expressions, can you use the absolute value method for adding integers? Click yes or no. For 1.3, yes, you can use the absolute value method.because 1 and 3 have the same sign. You cannot use the absolute value method for adding -5 + 4 because they have different signs. And yes, you can use it for -8 + -2 because they're both negative. They have the same sign. All right, so far we have been discussing adding positive and negative integers. You may have noticed that subtraction can be thought of as adding a negative. Another way we can think of subtraction is adding the opposite of a number. For example, if we have 6- 10, we are subtracting 10 from 6. We can think of this as adding the opposite of 10 to 6. So what is the opposite of 10, and what do we get when we add the opposite of 10 to 6? Enter your answers in these boxes. The opposite of 10 is -10. When we add the opposite of 10 to 6 we are adding -10 to 6 and we get -4. We originally wrote this as 6-10, but we can also write it as 6+-10 and treat it like an addition problem. Sometimes just to keep things neat we'll put parentheses around a negative number that we're adding. Don't let these parentheses confuse you. These two expressions are equivalent. [BLANK_AUDIO] What happens when we want to subtract a number that is negative? So, for example, if instead of subtracting 10 from 6, I wanted to subtract negative 10 from 6. This is a good place for me to use parentheses to make the notation clear. Remember that we can think of subtracting as adding the opposite. So, what is the opposite of negative 10? Enter your answer in the box. The opposite of negative 10 is positive 10. [BLANK_AUDIO] To subtract negative ten from six. We just found the opposite of negative ten since subtracting is adding the opposite of a number we can rewrite six minus negative ten as six plus the opposite of negative ten which is just ten. So what is six plus ten? Enter your answer here. Keeping in mind that when we subtract a number, we are adding its opposite. What do you think happens when we start with a negative number and subtract a positive number? So if we start with negative 6 and subtract positive 10, what do we get? Enter your answer here. [BLANK_AUDIO] When we subtract ten from negative six, we are just adding the opposite of ten, which is negative ten. So this is the same thing as -6 + -10, which is -16. So far we have tried negative -6-10, 6-10, 6-(-10). But what about -6-(-10)? Enter your answer here. -6- (-10) = 4. When we add the opposite of -10 to -6, we get -6 + 10 which equals 4. A checking account is one helpful way that we can think about adding and subtracting integers. If Sebastian opens a checking account with a deposit of $100 we can think of his balance as being positive $100. What is Sebastian's new balance if he then makes another deposit of $20. Enter your answer here. [BLANK_AUDIO] Sebastian's new balance would be $120. That's because 100 plus 20 equals 120. [BLANK_AUDIO] What if Sebastian now writes a check for $50? What is Sebastian's balance? Enter your answer in the box. Sebastian's balance is $70. That's because when he wrote a check for $50, he was taking 50 away from 120. 120 minus 50 is 70. [BLANK_AUDIO] Now Sebastian writes a check for $75. What is his balance? Sebastian's balance is negative $5 that's because we subtracted $75 from his previous balance of $70. 70 minus 75 is negative 5. His bank charges an overdraft fee of $40 for overdrawing his account. What is his balance? Sebastian's new balance is -$45. [BLANK_AUDIO] Sebastian deposits $80 to avoid further overdraft fees. Now what is his balance? [BLANK_AUDIO] Sebastian's new balance is $35. We add $80 to his previous balance of -$45 to get 35. Now let's get into multiplying and dividing integers. The result when numbers are multiplied is called a product. So let's say I want to buy some gum that comes in packs of five pieces. How many pieces of gum are there in two packs? So what is the product of five and two? Enter your answer here. [BLANK_AUDIO] The product of 5 and 2 is 10. I will have 10 sticks of gum. What happens when we multiply negative numbers together? What is the sign of the product of two negative numbers? So, what happens if I multiply a negative number by another negative number? [BLANK_AUDIO] Is the product positive, negative, or does it depend? [BLANK_AUDIO] The sign of the product of two negative numbers will always be positive. [BLANK_AUDIO] Why is it that the product of two negative numbers is positive? An analogy might help us understand why. Let's say I invite Sarah to my pizza party. We can think of coming to my pizza party as a positive. Sarah says she might not come to my party. We can think of that as a negative. If I then say to Sarah, do not, not come to my party, that's the same thing as saying, come to my party. The word not here can be thought of as negative. So when there are two negatives in a row, they effectively cancel each other out. So with that in mind, what is -3 times -2? And just so you know, this dot means multiply. -3 times -2 is positive 6. The two negatives cancel each other out. Here's a helpful rule that is worth writing down. Whenever you multiply two integers that have the same sign the product will always be positive. For these pairs of integers, do you think their products will be positive or negative? [BLANK_AUDIO] The product of -1 and 2 will be negative. The product of 9 and 5 will be positive. The product of -3 and -4 will also be positive. And the product of -2 and 7 will be negative. Remember, if the signs are the same, the product is positive. [BLANK_AUDIO] There are some different ways of expressing multiplication that we will use throughout this course. They look different, but they mean the same thing. You may be familiar with this notation where an x or a cross in the middle means multiplication. We just use this notation where a dot means multiplication. Sometimes a star or an asterisk will be used the same way. Finally, we can express multiplication by putting the numbers we want to multiply into parentheses and then placing them directly next to each other. These all mean the same thing, that we're multiplying two by two. Which of these does not mean the same thing as the others? Please select one. This does not mean the same thing as the others. All of the other expressions mean that you multiply 3 and 4 together. This is adding, remember, the product is what you get when you multiply two numbers together. [BLANK_AUDIO] Just like there are different ways to express multiplication, there are also different ways to express division. You may have used this division sign before. We can also denote division with this box, or by using a slash like this You should note that the quotient is what we call the result of division. So which of these does not mean the same thing as the others? Please pick one. This is not the same as the others. All these other expressions mean that 10 is being divided into two parts, while this means that 2 is being divided into 10 parts. [BLANK_AUDIO] Earlier we discussed how the product of two integers with the same sign will always be positive. Well, it turns out the same is true for quotients. A negative integer divided by another negative integer will yield a positive quotient. And a positive integer divided by a positive integer will also yield a positive quotient. With this in mind, do you think that quotients are products of two integers with different signs will be positive or negative, or does it depend? Please pick one. When multiplying or dividing two integers with different signs, the product or quotient will be negative. [BLANK_AUDIO] Make sure your notebook has the rules for multiplying and dividing positive and negative integers. When multiplying or dividing two numbers with the same sign, the product or quotient will be positive. And when multiplying or dividing two numbers with different signs, the product or quotient will be negative. Test your understanding of the material with these problems. Fill your answers in the boxes. [BLANK_AUDIO] 4 times -4 is -16. 7 times 3 is 21. -6 times -2 is 12. -1 times 22 is -22. -9 divided by -3 is 3. 14 divided by negative 7 is negative 2. 33 divided by 11 is 3. And -25 divided by 5 is -5. Does order matter when we add 3 and 2? If Paul has 3 shirts and he buys 2 more, is that different than if he starts with 2 shirts and then buys 3 more? Please select one. 3 + 2 is the same as 2 + 3, so this is the correct answer. It doesn't matter what order Paul buys the shirts in, he still ends up with five. What about for subtraction? If Kathleen starts with 3 cupcakes and promises 2 to her friends, is that different than if she has 2 cupcakes and promises 3 to friends? Please select one. 3- 2 is different than 2- 3. So this is the correct answer. If Kathleen starts with three cupcakes and promises two to friends, she's left with one cupcake for herself. But if she starts with two cupcakes and promises three to friends, Kathleen owes one more cupcake than she actually has. She's left with -1 cupcake. Order is important in some operations. By the way, Addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division are all called operations. It's important to understand, when order is important and when it doesn't matter, because that let's us know, whether or not, it's okay for us to switch around the order of our terms. Click true or false to indicate whether the two expressions given are equivalent. [BLANK_AUDIO] 5+2 is equivalent to 2+5, so this is true. 5+2 and 2+5 both equal 7. 5-2 is not equivalent to 2-5, so this is false. 5-2 = 3 and 2- 5 = -3. So the expressions are not equivalent. [BLANK_AUDIO] So we've seen that five plus two is equivalent to two plus five. What about five times two? Is that the same thing as two times five? Is buying two packs of gum with five pieces per pack the same thing as buying five packs of gum with two pieces per pack? Please pick one. Five times two is the same thing is two times five, so this is the correct answer. Let's look into this a bit further. I want to arrange my 10 sticks of gum with 1 pack per column. So if I bought 2 packs of gum with 5 sticks each, I would have 2 columns and each column will have 5 sticks of gum. So I can just rearrange that a little bit, and it'll look like this. I now have 2 columns of gum, 1 column for each pack and 5 rows of gum, so 5 pieces in each pack. To find the total number of sticks of gum, I can multiply the number of packs of gum, which is 2, by the number of sticks per pack, which is 5, and that gives 10. So I have 10 sticks of gum. But if I had instead bought 5 packs of gum with 2 sticks each, I would have 5 columns and each column would have 2 sticks of gum. That would look like this. See, 5 columns, 1 for each pack, and 2 rows, 1 for each piece. I still have 10 pieces of gum. They're just arranged differently. These two arrangements are equivalent. We have just reversed the rows and the columns. Switching the order of the rows and the columns does not change the results. This is the main characteristic of the commutative property. The commutative property states that changing the order of the terms does not change the outcome of the operation. So which operations follow the commutative property? Addition, subtraction, multiplication, division. Please select all that apply. Addition and multiplication follow the commutative property. Switching the order of the terms does not affect the outcome. Subtraction and division, however, do not follow the commutative property. The order is important for subtraction and division. [BLANK_AUDIO] We already saw that order matters in subtraction. If I start off with 3 cupcakes and promise 2 to my friends, I'm better off than if I start with 2 cupcakes and promise 3 to my friends. The order matters for division too, 10 divided by 2 is not the same thing as 2 divided by 10. Would you rather divide $10 between two people or divide $2 between 10 people? $10 divided by 2 sounds like a much better deal than $2 divided into 10. $10 divided by 2 gives $5 per person, but $2 divided by 10 gives just $0.20 per person. So order definitely matters for division, which means division does not follow the commutative property. Earlier, we found that when there are two terms, addition follows the commutative property. But, what about when there are three terms? What if Katy bought two cameras from an electronics store and then ordered five cameras from an electronics website, and then ordered three more cameras from a different website? We can use parentheses to group Katy's online purchases. So, Katy bought two cameras in person and then 5 + 3 cameras online. Is that different than if Katy purchases two cameras at an electronics store five at an electronics wholesaler and three online? Here, I'm going to use parentheses to group the cameras that Katie purchased in person. True or false, 2 + 5 + 3 is the same thing as 2 + 5 + 3? This is true. Adding the terms in the parentheses first, we see that 2+(5+3) becomes 2+8, which equals 10. Likewise, we see that (2+5)+3 becomes 7+3, which also equals 10. Regardless of the order or how the terms are grouped, adding three or more terms together will always give the same sum. Here's another good vocabulary word. The associative property means that regardless of the order or grouping of three or more terms, the outcome is the same. We just saw that addition follows the associative property. What other operations do you think follow the associative property? Check all that apply. Multiplication follows the associative property. Let's see why. Jonathan wants to buy his favorite soda. The store offers soda in 2 x 3 packs, and in 3 x 4 cases. Jonathan buys 4 of the 2 x 3 packs and 2 of the 3 x 4 cases. Does Jonathan have more soda in packs or cases? Jonathan has the same amount in both cases and packs. Jonathan bought four of the two by three packs, so he bought 4 by 2 by 3, 2 times 3 equal 6, and 4 times 6 equals 24. Jonathan bought two of the three by four cases. So he bought two times three times four. Three times four equals 12 and two times 12 equals 24. The sodas group differently, but Jonathan still ends up with the same amount and packs and in cases. We saw that multiplication follows the associative property. Does the associative property work for subtraction? Is 2- (5-3) the same thing as( 2-5)- 3? Please select one. [BLANK_AUDIO] No, they are not equivalent. To see why, we have to do what's in the parentheses first. 5-3 is 2. So, 2-(5-3) can be rewritten as 2-2 which equals 0. 2-5=-3. So this can be rewritten as -3-3, which equals -6. 0 does not equal -6, so we can see that these expressions are not equivalent. That means that the associative property does not work for subtraction. What about division? Does division follow the associative property? Is 12/(6/2) equivalent (12/6)/2? No, they're not equivalent. Again, let's do what's in the parentheses first. 6 divided by 2 is 3, so we can rewrite this as 12 divided by 3, which equals 4. 12 divided by 6 equals 2, so we can rewrite this as 2 divided by 2, which equals 1. 1 does not equal 4, so these expressions are not equivalent. The associative property does not work for division. [BLANK_AUDIO] Does the associative property apply here? Select each expression where the associative property can be applied. The associative property can be applied here and here. That's because addition is associative, and so is multiplication. Subtraction is not associative. Neither is division. [BLANK_AUDIO] Let's talk about exponents. First, do your best to evaluate this expression. What is three squared? It's okay if you're not sure, just try to guess. Enter your answer here. [BLANK_AUDIO] Three squared is nine. You might have guessed six because the sort of looks like three should be multiplied by two, but actually exponents take things a step further How is it that 3 squared =9? Exponents are just a different way to express multiplication. With exponents we start with a base, in this case our base is 3. And then we raise the base to the power of the exponent. In this case, 2 is the exponent. Before I called this 3 squared but we can also call this 3 to the power of 2. So what does 3 to the power of 2 mean? Is it 3 times 2? 3 + 3? 3 times 3? 3 divided by 3? Please pick one. [BLANK_AUDIO]. 3 to the power of 2 means the same thing as 3 times 3. [BLANK_AUDIO] When we have an exponent, we multiply the base by itself. So in 3 squared, the base is 3, and we multiplied 3 by 3. The exponent tells us how many times we should multiply the base by itself. Because 3 was raised to the 2nd power, we multiplied 3 by itself, twice. What about 2 to the 3rd? Which of the following is equivalent to 2 to the 3rd? 2 to the third is equivalent to 2 x 2 x 2. This is because the base is 2 and the power is 3. So we multiply the base by itself three times. 2 x 2 x 2. These expressions can be written as exponents. Write equivalent exponents next to each expression by writing the base in the big box and the power in the little box. 4 times 4 times 4 is 4 cubed or 4 to the 3rd power. 3 times 3 times 3 times 3 is 3 to the 4th power. 3 is the base, 4 is the exponent or the power. 1 times 1 times 1 times 1 times 1 is 1 to the 5th. 1 is the base 5 is the power or the exponent. 7 times 7 is 7 squared, or 7 to the 2nd power. 2 is the power or the exponent, and 7 is the base. Evaluate these exponents. Write your answers in the boxes. 5 cubed is 125, that's because five cubed equals five times five times five. Two to the fifth is 32, two to the fifth is two times two times two times two times two. One to the seventh is one, that's because one times one is one. No matter how many times we multiply one by itself, it still equals one. Four to the fourth is 256, that's because four to the fourth is four times four times four times four. These are easier to do with a calculator but here are some tricks to do them by hand too. You can pair things together, so two times two is four and then four times four is 16. And then I have one two left over, so four times four times two is 16 times two which is 32. Same thing with five, five times five is 25 and then we multiply it by five, 25 times five equals 125. [BLANK_AUDIO] What do you think 3 to the 1st power is? 3 to the first power is 3. [BLANK_AUDIO] When we raise the number to a given power, we multiply it by itself the number of times indicated in the power. So 3 to the 4th is 3 times 3 times 3 times 3. 3 cubed equals 3 times 3 times 3. 3 squared is 3 times 3. So 3 to the 1 is just 3. Every time we go down a power we are multiplying the base by itself one less time. We are essentially dividing by the base every time we go down a power. So if we are dividing by the base every time we go down a power, what do you think 3 to the 0 is? Enter your answer here. Three to the zero is one. We already know that three to the first power is three. And we know that when we go down a power, we are dividing by the base. Three divided by three equals one, so three to the zero power is one. The zero exponent or raising a base to the zero power will not give us zero. This sign means not equivalent to. This is worth writing down in your notebook. Any number raised to the power of 1 is itself and any number raised to the power of zero is 1. Try working these examples, enter your answers in the boxes. [BLANK_AUDIO] 15 raised to the first power is 15. 15 to the 0 power is 1. 129 to the first power is 129. And 129 to the 0 power is 1. 5,006 raised to the first power is 5,006. and 5,006 to the 0 power is 1. Nice work. Parentheses impact how we calculate exponents. Negative four inside parentheses raised to the second power. Is not the same thing as a negative four raised to the second power. Parentheses tell us about what the base is in an exponent. So in the case of negative four in parentheses raised to the second power the base is -4 and the exponent can be expanded to -4 times -4. -4 squared doesn't have parentheses. So I take the negative sign in front of the 4 to mean that I'm finding the negative of four squared. The base is four in effect negative four squared can be expanded to negative one times four times four. Remember that when you see a negative in front of a base and there are no parentheses around it you can just think of it as negative one times whatever the exponent is. Evaluate these exponents and be careful about the sign of your answers. Enter your answers in the boxes. -4 squared, with parentheses, is 16. That's because -4 squared, with parentheses is the same thing as -4 times -4. The base is -4. The negatives cancel each other out, and we're left with a positive answer. -4 squared without parentheses is the same thing as -1 times 4 squared, which is the same thing as -1 times 4 times 4, which is -16. -2 to the fourth, with an exponent, gives 16. That's because -2 to the fourth with parentheses is the same thing as -2 times -2 times -2 times -2. There are an even number of negative signs being multiplied, so they cancel each other out, and I'm left with a positive answer, 16. -2 to the fourth is -16, because -2 to the fourth without parentheses is effectively, -1 times 2 times 2 times 2 times 2. The base is positive 2. And what I'm left with is -16. -3 cubed is -27. That's because -3 cubed is -1 times 3 times 3 times 3 which is -27. Remember that if a negative sign is to be included in the base of an exponent, the base including the negative sign should be in parentheses. We've talked a lot about operations so far, so we should start talking about how to use these operations together. Let's start with an example, given the problem, 1200-6*10, Vanessa and Pablo came up with different answers. Pablo worked from left to right, and got the answer 11940. So, he started with 1200 and subtracted 6 to get 1194, and then he multiplied that by 10. Vanessa got 1140. Vanessa got this by first multiplying 6 by 10 to get 60, and then subtracting that product from 1200. Who has the correct answer? Please select Pablo or Vanessa. Vanessa is right. The answer is 1140. [BLANK_AUDIO] It might seem strange, but we should not solve problems like the last one from left to right. There's a set of rules we call the order of operations to help us with complicated problems that have lots of terms. This should definitely go in your notebook. The order of operations tells us how to solve problems in this order. First perform operations inside grouping symbols, such as parentheses or brackets. As a note there is an implied grouping symbol for the numerator and denominator of a fraction. You need to simplify the numerator and denominator separately before you do the division. Second, simplify exponents. Third, perform multiplication and division from left to right. Fourth, perform addition and subtraction from left to right. Getting back to the problem Vanessa and Pablo worked on, the reason that Vanessa was correct was because she multiplied first and then subtracted, subtracted first and then multiplied, or worked from left to right. Please select the correct answer. Vanessa was correct because she multiplied first and then subtracted. Which is right using the order of operations. [BLANK_AUDIO] You may have previously learned the order of operations using the mnemonic PEMDAS. P stands for parentheses, E stands for exponents, M stands for multiply, D stands for divide, A stands for add, and S stands for subtract. If PEMDAS is a helpful way for you to remember the order of operations, that's great. But keep in mind that even though M comes before D PEMDAS, you should still also do multiplication and division at the same time. Likewise, even though A comes before S, you should add and subtract at the same time. For multiplying and dividing as well as for adding and subtracting, always work from left to right. Now that we know the order of operations, let's try a problem. Now that we know the order of operations, let's try problem. Let's start with 20/5 x4+6 squared. Enter your answer in the box. The answer is 52. Referring back to the order of operations, we should perform operations inside parentheses first. This expression doesn't have any parentheses so we can move on to simplifying exponents. Our exponent here is 6 squared, which is 36. Our new expression then becomes 20 divided by 5 times 4 plus 36. Next, we should multiply and divide from left to right. So that means dividing 20 by 5 which is 4. Again, let's rewrite our expression which now is 4 x 4 + 36. We're still working on multiplication and division from left to right. So, next we multiply 4 by 4 to get 16. Now, our expression is 16 + 36 which gives us 52. Don't worry if you didn't get this right away, there are a lot of rules to remember. The good news is that with just a little bit of practice, the order of operations starts to feel automatic. Let's try another. Evaluate the expression (6 squared -10)*4-8. Remember to use the order of operations and enter your answer here. The answer is 96. The first thing that we need to do is evaluate what's inside the parentheses which is 6 squared- 10. We should treat what's inside the parentheses as a unique expression and follow the order of operations to evaluate it. So exponents will need to be simplified first, 6 squared is 36. So the expression inside the parentheses becomes 36- 10. And our full expression becomes (36- 10) * (4- 8). Next, we subtract within the parentheses and 36- 10 is 26. So with the expression inside the parentheses simplified to 26, we can rewrite our full expression as 26 * 4- 8. Now we should multiply 26 * 4, which gives us 104. And our expression becomes 104- 8. And when we subtract 8 from 104, we get 96. It's important to write out all the steps you are taking as you do these problems. Otherwise, it will become difficult to keep track of what to do next. I also recommend you do one thing at a time. Let's try another practice problem. Evaluate this expression using the order of operations, enter your answer on the box. [BLANK_AUDIO] The answer is negative seven. There's a lot going on here, so let's take this step-by-step. The first thing we need to do is look at the grouping symbols. Here we have nesting grouping symbols with parentheses inside brackets. When this is the case, do the innermost set of grouping symbols first and then work your way out. So the first thing we should do is six minus eight. Six minus eight equals negative two. So we'll just rewrite our expression and substitute in negative two and this is our new expression. Now let's work our way out four minus negative 2 equals 6. We'll rewrite our expression again and substituting six in for four minus negative two, our expression becomes six divided by six plus negative two cubed. When parentheses are used to indicate clarity, for example, keeping a sign associated with a number, we don't treat them as grouping symbols like we normally would. The next thing that we need to do is evaluate this exponent. We're not evaluating this next because of the parentheses but because it's an exponent. So negative two with parenthesis cubed is equal to negative two times negative two minus two which is equal to negative eight. So our new expression becomes six divided by six plus negative eight. Now we've done all the grouping symbols and all the exponents. Next thing to do is multiply and divide from left to right. Six divided by six equals one. We substitute that back into our original equation to get one plus negative eight. One plus negative eight equals negative seven, and we're all set. Melissa is buying carpet for a new recording studio. She does not want to spend more than $475 on purchasing new carpet, and the carpet she wants to use is $2.25 per square foot. Melissa's recording studio is square with sides of length 14 feet. If Melissa buys the carpet, will she be able to stay within her budget of $475. Please select one. Yes, Melissa will be able to stay within her budget. The studio is 14 feet by 14 feet. So, the area of the room equals 14 by 14, which equals 196 square feet. Carpet is $2.25 per square foot. So the total cost of the carpet is 196 x 2.25 which equals 441. 441 is less than 475, so she's within her budget. In order to find out how much Melissa's carpet would cost, you calculated the area of the room she needed to carpet. You probably didn't even think about the formula for calculating area. You might not have even realized you were calculating area at all, you might have just followed your intuition about how to find the cost of carpeting the room. But you did, in fact, find the area of a square. So, what do you think the formula is for the area of a square? L equals the length of one side of the square. Is it L plus L plus L plus L, 4L, LxL, or L squared? Select all that apply. The area of a square is l x l. Since squares have four equal sides, this can also be written as l squared. This formula should be recorded in your notebook. So, we know that the area of a square is l times l, what about the area of a rectangle? What is the area of a rectangle with length equals l and with equals w? Is it l times w? L plus l plus w plus w? L times L L squared. Select all that apply. The area of a rectangle is l x w. [BLANK_AUDIO] So it turns out that the formula of a square is the same thing as the formula of the area of a rectangle. A square is just a special case in the realm of rectangles because in the case of a square w = l. Try calculating the area of these rectangles. Note that they are not drawn to scale. Enter your answers in the boxes. [BLANK_AUDIO] The area of a 4 by 6 rectangle is 24. 4 times 6 equals 24. The area of a 9 by 9 square is 81. 9 times 9 equals 81. The area of a 20 by 21 rectangle is 420. 20 times 21 equals 420. [BLANK_AUDIO] The formula for the area of rectangles seems intuitive. Trying to find the area of a triangle is not as straightforward as trying to find the area of a rectangle. However, with the help of some origami paper, I think we will be able to figure it out. The area is 4x4 equals 16 square inches. If we take that piece of paper and fold it in half diagonally, we have a triangle whose base is still four inches and whose height is still four inches. Remembering that the area of the whole square is 16, what is your guess of what the area of the triangle might be, if it's just a folded in half square? What is the area of a triangle with base equals 4 and height equals 4? Enter your answer here and don't worry about units. [BLANK_AUDIO] The area of the triangles 8 square inches. Remember, we folded the 16 square inch square in half so the area should be half. Half of 16 is 8. [BLANK_AUDIO] So it's pretty clear that this triangle is half the area of this square. But what about an example like this one? We can show with just a couple of folds and cuts that the area of this triangle is a half the area of the rectangle that shares the same base and height. Okay,so I'm just going to fold along these lines and cut where the lines are. Okay, so now I have three triangles, and we can see that they used to make this nice rectangle. But if I just flip some things around, I can see that what I cut out is exactly the same area as what's left. So again, the area of the triangle is half the area of the rectangle that shares the same base, length, and height. So given what we just saw, what is a good formula for the area of a triangle? Here's a hint, the area of a rectangle which we normally write as L times W, is also base times height. Please select one. The area of a triangle is one half base times height. That's because a triangle is going to be half the area of a rectangle that shares the same base and height. Remember Melissa and the recording studio she bought carpet for? Well, she decided that she wants to add a wallpaper border, and it costs $1.75 per foot. Melissa doesn't want to spend more than $100 on the wallpaper border. Will Melissa be able to buy enough border for the 14 by 14 studio without going over budget? Please select one. Yes, Melissa will be able to buy enough wallpaper and stay under her budget. She needs to buy 14 + 14 + 14 +14 feet of wallpaper. 14 + 14 + 14 + 14 = 56. 56 times 1.75, so $1.75 equals 98. It will cost Melissa $98 to buy enough border to go around the 14 by 14 studio, which is less than $100. How did we find out how many feet of wallpaper Melissa needed to buy? We calculated the perimeter of the 14 by 14 room. We did that by adding up all four sides. Remember that all four sides of a square have the same length. If the length of a square is l, what is the formula for the perimeter of a square? Is it 4 plus l, 4 divided by l, l divided by 4 or 4 times l? [BLANK_AUDIO] The perimeter of a square is 4L, or 4 times L. Keeping in mind that to find the perimeter of a square you add together the length of all the sides. What is the perimeter of a rectangle with length equals l and width equals w? Please select one. The perimeter of a rectangle is 2l + 2w. This is because the perimeter is the sum of all the sides. If we add up all the sides we get l + l + w + w. l + l + l together is the same thing as 2l or 2 times l. Likewise, w + w is the same thing as 2w or 2 times w. And so we get 2l + 2w. This formula is useful, but the important thing to remember is that to get the perimeter, you just add up all the sides. [BLANK_AUDIO] Hsiao-lu dances the tango in the shape of a triangle. She starts in the corner and dances eight feet to the right. Next, she cuts ten feet across the room and then dances six feet back to where she started. What is the perimeter of the triangle that Hsiao-lu made when she tangoed? Enter your answer here. The perimeter of the triangle is 24 feet, 8 + 10 + 6 = 24. Just like with squares and rectangles, to calculate the perimeter of a triangle, you just add up the sides. Nice work. Welcome to Topic 2. Topic 2 covers fractions, decimals, how to convert between fractions and decimals, and scientific notation. This is a super useful topic. So let's get started. Welcome to Unit Two. Let's start with a question. What is a fraction? A fraction is just a part over a whole. A good example might be pizza. Let's say I order a pizza to share between myself and my three friends, Andy, Bob, and Carol. So, here's the four of us. This is me and Andy, Bob, and Carol. There are four of us sharing this pizza. So what is the smallest number of pieces that we can cut this pizza into so that we all share it equally. Enter your answer here. We should cut the pizza into 4 pieces. That means we each get one-fourth of the pizza. When we cut the pizza into fourths and each of us got 1 piece, we saw that we each got 1/4 of the pizza. Now that the pizza is cut into 8 parts and we each get get 2 pieces, how can we represent the amount of pizza that each person gets as a fraction? Write your answer here. Enter the numerator into the top box and the denominator into the bottom box. You can write this as two eighths. Remember two is the number of pieces that you get, and eight is the total number of pieces. Now if everyone gets 2/8 of the pizza instead of 1/4 of the pizza, has the amount that each person gets changed? Am I getting more pizza, less pizza or the same amount? Please select your answer. I'm getting the same amount of pizza. Even though the fraction one-fourth looks different than the fraction two-eighths, they are actually equivalent fractions. I'm still getting one-fourth of the pizza, but my portion of the pizza has been cut into two slices instead of one. I can show that they're equivalent by finding a common factor in the numerator and the denominator. The factors of 2 are 1 and 2. The factors of 8 are 1, 2, 4, and 8. The greatest common factor that they share is 2. We usually don't consider 1 when finding the greatest common factor. Because 2 and 8 have factors in common, we can write two-eighths in a different way. 2 can also be written as 2 x 1. And 8 can be written as 2 x 4 because 2 x 4 is 8 and 2 x 1 is 2. If I divide out the 2 in the numerator and the 2 in the denominator, I am left with one-fourth. Let's try doing this with another fraction, like six over nine. What is the greatest common factor that six and nine share? Enter your answer in this box. 6 and 9 share the factor 3. Reducing means writing fractions in their simplest possible form. Try to reduce 6 over 9. Enter your answer over here. Enter the numerator in the top box and the denominator in the bottom box. [BLANK_AUDIO] We can reduce six-ninths into two-thirds. We can do this because 6 and 9 share the common factor 3. That means we can write 6 over 9 as 3 times 2 over 3 times 3. Now I can divide out the 3 from the top and the 3 from the bottom, and what I'm left with this two-thirds. This might be a good time to remind you that it's okay to do this, divide out the 3 from the top and the 3 from the bottom, because any number over itself is equal to 1. So here, 3 over 3 is just the same thing as 1. We used the term reduce to describe removing a common factor, in this case two, from the numerator and the denominator. Have we actually reduced the fraction? Is eight-tenths less than 16 over 20? Please select your answer. No, eight-tenths is not less than 16 over 20. Even though we call this process reducing, the fractions are still equivalent. In this rectangle, 8 out of 10 of the pieces are filled in. This is eight-tenths. In this rectangle, 16 out of the 20 of the segments are shaded in. This represents sixteen-twentieths. Even though the fractions look different, the same area inside the total box is shaded for both of these. The process that we've been referring to as reducing is sometimes also called simplifying. If you are asked to simplify a fraction, remember that it's the same thing as reducing the fraction. [BLANK_AUDIO] All right, so we know that 16 over 20 reduces to eight-tenths. Eight-tenths can be reduced even more, though. I notice that eight and ten have another common factor. So, what is the greatest common factor and what is the fraction that eight-tenths reduces to? Write the greatest common factor here and the reduced fraction here. The greatest common factor is 2. We can reduce 8 over 10 to 4 over 5. Sometimes even after a fraction is reduced, it might need to be reduced even further. For example, I might see that sixteen and twenty have a common factor of two. If I reduce sixteen over twenty using two as the common factor, what fraction will I get? Enter your answer here, numerator on top, denominator on the bottom. I will get 8/10. 16/20 can also be written as 2 x 8 / 2 x 10. I'll divide out the 2 in the numerator and the denominator and then I'm left with 8/10. How do I know when a fraction can't be reduced any further? Please select all that apply. We know that a fraction can't be reduced any further when the numerator and denominator have no more factors in common. Simplify the following fractions to their most reduced form. If the fraction cannot be reduced any further, enter the fraction in its original form. For example, since I can't reduce one-half any further, I should just enter one-half. 12/36 reduces to 1/3, 9 and 14 don't have any factors in common so it can't reduce any further. So the answer here is just 9/14. 15/75 can be reduced to 1/5, and 8 and 11 don't share any common factors so it'll just stay 8 over 11. Let's get back to our pizza example. What happens if I eat my two slices of pizza? And then Bob eats his one slice of pizza. How many pieces of pizza are left? Enter your answer here. There are five pieces of pizza left. We started with eight, I ate two so we subtract two. Bob ate one, so we subtract another. That leaves us with five. We could also just count, one, two, three, four, five. What if we added a whole new pizza to the one we already ordered? That means we have two pizzas and they're both cut into eight slices, each full pizza is eight over eight. How many pieces of pizza are there and two whole pizzas? Enter your answer here. There are 16 pieces of pizza total. That's 8 per pizza. We can actually express this as a fraction. We can write 16 over 8. That's because we have 16 pieces total, but there is still 8 pieces in one whole pizza. When we have a fraction like this, where the numerator is bigger than the denominator, that's called an improper fraction. This is another important vocabulary word that you might want to write down. A proper fraction might be something like 7/8, where the numerator is still smaller than the denominator. Now that we have two pizzas, if I ate my two slices and Bob ate one slice, how many pieces are left out of our original 16? Enter your answer here. There are 13 pieces of pizza left. We can express the amount of pizza left as a fraction, thirteen-eighths. Remember that each whole pizza is eight slices and the denominator needs to tell us the number of pieces that are in one whole. The improper fraction thirteen-eighths tells us that we have more than one whole pizza because the numerator is bigger than the denominator. What is another way to write thirteen-eighths? Select all that apply. We can write this as 1 5/8. We have one whole pizza plus 5/8 of another pizza. 1 5/8 is an example of a mixed number. Mixed numbers have both whole numbers and fractions. In this case the whole number is the 1, and the fraction is the 5/8. Any improper fraction like 13/8 can also be written as a mixed number like 1 5/8. It works the other way around too. Any mixed number can also be written as an improper fraction. For these numbers please indicate whether each one is a proper fraction, an improper fraction, or a mixed number. One and three-fourths is a mixed number. Twenty-nine-fifths is an improper fraction. Seven-eighths is a proper fraction. 101 over 100 is an improper fraction. Five and one-third is a mixed number. And 100 over 101 is a proper fraction. Remember that a mixed number will have both whole numbers and fractions. Improper fractions will have a greater numerator than denominator. And proper fractions will have no whole number and a smaller numerator than denominator. What if I had a big pizza party with lots of friends and lots of different kinds of pizza and at the end of the party there were lots of leftovers. And I had the choice to take home three-eighths of the anchovy pizza or five-sixteenths of the pepperoni pizza. Which one should I take home if I want as much leftover pizza as possible. How do I compare three-eights and five-sixteenths? One way we can compare three-eighths and five-sixteenths is using a number line. Here's our number line and notice that it goes from zero to one. On this number line please select where three-eighths and five-sixteenths should fall. So you'll be selecting two boxes and just as a little hint, each of these little tick marks is one-sixteenth. The two boxes you should have selected are this one and this one. Five-sixteenths corresponds to this, and we know that because each of these hash marks is one-sixteenth. And so, we get one-sixteenth, 2 over 16, 3 over 16, 4 over 16, 5 over 16. And this corresponds to three-eighths, that's because it's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and over 16, and these are equivalent fractions. So this is great. We just saw that number lines can help us compare numbers. For each of these numbers there is a number line. Please plot each number on the number line. You should notice that each number line has zero at the center, but the scales are not all the same. Also notice that negative numbers go on the left hand side, and positive numbers go on the right hand side. Also note that I've labeled all the whole numbers positive and negative on each of these number lines. 4/5 is here, -3/4 is over here, 2 1/2 is here, -3 1/2 is right here, and -1 11/2 is right here. Great work. Number lines can be used to plot mixed numbers and negative numbers too. Thinking back to our example, the pizza cut into eight slices, we remember that Bob and I are sharing the pizza. We know that if I eat two slices, so these are my two slices, that's me, and Bob, and this is Bob, eats one slice of pizza, that means we've eaten one, two, three slices of pizza. We remember from our previous example that I ate two-eighths of the pizza because two slices out of the eight total slices. And Bob ate one-eighth of the pizza, that's his one slice out of eight total slices, and together we ate three-eighths of pizza. How can we find out how many pieces of pizza are left? Well, we could just count them and see that we have one, two, three, four, five pieces of pizza left but I'd like to show this in a fraction. To show what's going on with the fraction, we should start with eight-eights because that represents the whole pizza, eight slices out of eight. Then we should subtract the amount that we've eaten already which is three-eights. This problem is in a convenient form for us because we can see that the denominators are the same. They are common denominators. When we have fractions like this with common denominators, all we have to do is look at the numerators. We know that no matter what the fraction that results will have an eight in the denominator. So what's 8 minus 3? 5. And when fractions have common denominators, we know that the denominator here will be the same thing as what we have here. So it's 8, five-eighths. [BLANK_AUDIO] Just like when we counted. So remember, when you have common denominators in your fractions, all you have to do is keep the denominator the same. And then add or subtract what's in the numerator. Let's try some practice problems. Add or subtract the following corrections. Write the answer in these boxes, write the numerator in the top box and the denominator in the bottom box. The answers are, nine-tenths, five-fifths, three-fourths, and four-eleventh's. Remember, first add or subtract the numerators. And then keep the denominator the same. Let's think back to the leftover pizza from the big pizza party again. Remember, I was choosing between three-eights of a pizza and five-sixteenths of a pizza. What if I took both sets of leftovers home? What is three-eights + five-sixteenths? Is it eight-eights? Eight-sixteenth? Eight-twenty fourths? Or is it something else? The answer is it is actually is something else. We can't add this fractions yet because 3-8th's and 5-16th's have different denominators. In order to add these two fractions together we need to find something called a common denominator. One way we can do this is to compare multiples of the denominators and see if any of the multiples are the same. Some multiples of 8 are 8, 16, 24, 32, 40, and it keeps going on. Some multiples of 16 are 16, 32, 48, and on and on. What is the smallest multiple that our denominators have in common? That is what is the least common denominator enter your answer here. 16 is the least common denominator. [BLANK_AUDIO] Now that we found the least common denominator, which is 16, we have to find equivalent fractions of three eighths and five sixteenths that have the least common denominator. Five sixteenths already has sixteen in the denominator, but what about three eighths? Which of these fractions is equivalent to three eighths and also has sixteen in the denominator? Please pick one. 6/16 is equivalent to 3/8 and it has 16 in the denominator. How do we determine that the numerator is six? Well, our original fraction was 3/8 and we wanted to turn that into some fraction that had 16 in the denominator, no numerator yet though. So we need to turn 8 into 16. I know that eight goes into 16 two times. So I have to multiply eight by two. if we want this fraction to stay equivalent to three eights anything that we do to the denominator we must also do to the numerator. So multiply by two on the top as well and three times two equals six. Now, it's time to practice. Turn all of these fractions into equivalent fractions that have 16 in the denominator. 1/2 is equivalent to 8/16. 3/4 is equivalent to 12/16. And 7/8 is equal to 14/16. For each of these fractions we had to multiply the numerator in the denominator, each by some number in order to get our new numerator over 16. So, what did I multiply by two to get 16? I know that two goes into 16 eight times. Well if I do anything to the denominator I have to do the same thing to the numerator in order for it to be the same fraction. And then I get 1 x 8 = 8, and that's my numerator. And for 3/4 I had to find some number to multiply it by the denominator, 4, to get the new denominator, 16. And I know that 4 goes into 16, four times, and I do the same thing to the numerator. And then 3 x 4 gives me 12. And for 7/8, I know that eight goes into 16 two times. Two over two. 7 x 2 me 14. It's okayif this is not coming to you right away. We'll give you lots of practice, so you can get more comfortable. What is one-fourth + one-third? The first thing you need to do is find the Least common denominator that one-fourth and one-third share, write that here. And then write the equivalent fractions of one-fourth and one-third here and here, and write the final solution here. The least common denominator here is 12. 1/4 is equivalent to 3/12, and 1/3 is equivalent to 4/12. Remember, we add the numerators together and keep the denominator the same. So that leaves us with 7/12. Enough talk about pizza. Let's talk about cookies. Imagine you have a cookie recipe that makes 48 cookies. The recipe calls for half a cup of sugar. If you instead want to make 24 cookies, how much sugar do you need? Enter your answer here, with the numerator on the top and the denominator on the bottom. You need one-fourth of a cup of sugar. How did you know how much sugar to use in the smaller batch of cookies? You probably noticed that 24 cookies is half the number of cookies that the recipe normally yields, 48. And that means you probably knew that you would need half as much sugar to make half as many cookies. That means you needed to find half of one-half of a cup. So that means you needed half as much sugar as the original recipe, so one-half cup, and then you just took half. And that gave us one-quarter cup. One-fourth is one-half times one-half. For both the numerator and the denominator, please check one. Do you add the numerators, subtract the numerators, multiply the numerators, or don't change? And for the denominators, do you add, subtract, multiply, or don't change? When multiplying fractions, you multiply the numerator and multiply the denominator. So, in order for us to have gotten one fourth here, we multiplied 1 times 1, to get 1, and you multiplied 2 by 2 to get 4. Try multiplying all these fractions. 1/3 x 1/2 gives us 1/6. 1 x 1 equals 1. 3 x 2 equals 6. 2/3 x 2/3 gives 4/9. 2 x 2 is 4 and 3 times 3 is 9. 5/6 x 1/4 gives 5/24. 5 x 1 equals 5. 6 x 4 equals 24. 1/10 x 3/4 gives 3/40. 1 x 3 equals 3. 10 x 4 is 40. Now let's try dividing fractions. What is one-third divided by one-half? This is tricky, but try your best. 1/3 divided by 1/2 is 2/3. So how is it that one-third divided by one-half is two-thirds? Well, dividing fractions can also be thought of as multiplying by the reciprocal. A reciprocal, this means that you switch the numerator and denominator, so the reciprocal of one-half becomes two over one. Since dividing is the same thing as multiplying by the reciprocal, one-third divided by one-half becomes one-third times two over one and we remember from before, that we just multiply the numerators. So one times two gives us two and we multiply the denominators, three times one gives us three. Find the reciprocal of these numbers, two-thirds, fourteen-fifths, three, one-seventh. Here's a hint, any whole number is the same thing as that number over one, so three is three over one. The reciprocal of two-thirds is three-halves, the reciprocal of fourteen-fifths is five-fourteenths, the reciprocal of 3 is one-third, and the reciprocal of one-seventh is 7 over 1, which is the same thing as 7. Try dividing these fractions. Enter your answers in their most simplified form in the boxes. One-fourth divided by one-third can also be written as one-fourth times 3 over 1. 1 times 3 equals 3, and 4 times 1 equals 4, so that gives us three-fourths. One-third divided by one-fourth can also be written as one-third times 4 over 1. 1 times 4 gives us 4, and 3 times 1 is 3. This is important. Notice that the order matters. One-fourth divided by one-third is not the same thing as one-third divided by one-fourth. Five-twelfths divided by one-fourth can be written as five-twelfths times 4 over 1. 5 times 4 equals 20, and 12 times 1 equals 12. This needs to be simplified. We know that 20 and 12 share a common factor of 4. 20 can be written as 4 times 5, and 12 can be written as 4 times 3. I divide out the 4 from the top and the bottom, and that leaves five-thirds. Two-ninths divided by three-fifths can also be written as two-ninths times five-thirds. 2 times 5 gives us 10, and 9 times 3 gives us 27. This is already simplified, so this is our answer. Suppose you make $7.95 an hour and you work for 8.5 hours. We calculate the total amount you make by multiplying these two numbers together. So what is 7.95 x 8.5? Enter your answer here. [BLANK_AUDIO] Let's use Google Calculator to find this out. 7.95 times 8.5 equals 67.575. So $67.575, that's not quite right is it? It seems like having three decimal places here is too many. How can we figure out what your paycheck should actually say? We need rounding to do this. For now it's okay if you included the entire answer, so all three decimal places, but let's figure out what we need to do to make this make a little more sense. Rounding is a way to take a number and say what it's about equal to. If someone asks you for the time and you look at your watch and it says 6:01, you may just say 6 o'clock. When you do this, you are rounding to the nearest hour. Whenever we round, we are taking a number and saying what that number is close to. Let's take a look at numbers with a single digit after the decimal point like 2.6, 3.4, or 1.5. How do you think we would round these? For example, let's look at 2.6. Looking at the number line, we know that 2.6 is somewhere in-between 2 and 3, but the question is, is 2.6 to the right or to the left of the midpoint in-between 2 and 3? First, let's figure out what the midpoint is. What is the midpoint between 2 and 3? Enter your answer in this box. The number that is exactly halfway in between 2 and 3 is 2.5. 2.6 is on the right side of the line which means it's closer to 3 than it is to 2. So if we wanted to round 2.6 to the nearest whole number, it would round to 3. In general, when we want to round to the nearest whole number, we round up when the number after the decimal is 5 or bigger. When the first number after the decimal is 4 or smaller, just leave the whole number as it is. Now, you try. Round 3.4 and 1.5 to the nearest whole number. Enter your answers in these boxes. 3.4 rounds to 3. Since 4 is less than 5, we just drop that off and it becomes 3. 1.5 rounds to 2. Remember, round up when the number after the decimal is 5 or bigger. Try rounding these numbers to the nearest whole number and enter your answers in these boxes 2.9 rounds to 3. 4.1 rounds to 4. 3.5 also rounds to 4. 11.6 rounds to 12, and 20.4 rounds to 20. Remember if it's greater than 5, you round up. We don't always round to the nearest whole number. Let's say we have some number like 3.5945. If we want to round but we want more precision, we may round to the first, or the second, or even the third decimal place. If I say let's round to the first decimal place, the first thing we do is find the first decimal place and then look to the right of that. So, now we're looking at the second decimal place. .And now, we use the same rules as before. So, if it's 5 or greater, we round up. And if it's 4 or smaller, we just keep it how it is. So, 3.5945 rounded, to the first decimal place is 3.6. What do you think 3.5945 is rounded to the second decimal place? Enter your answer here. The first thing we need to do is find the second decimal place. Here, the second decimal place is 9. And now we look to the right. That's the 4. And now we need to decide whether 4 is 5 or greater or if it's less than 5. Since 4 is less than 5, we can just drop off these last two decimal places, and then we're left with 3.59. Okay, let's try a slightly trickier one. What about 3.5955? How do you around 3.5955 to two decimal places? Please select one. The answer is 3.60. In 3.5955, to round to the second decimal place, we first find the second decimal, which is 9, and then we look to the right, and we get 5. That means that we have to round up. How do we round up a 9 though? Well, we don't increase the 9 to a 10, so it's not this one. Instead, let's look at a zoomed in number line, around 3.5955. Here we have 3.58 and 3.59. And here we have 3.60 and 3.61. And somewhere in between 3.59 and 3.60, we have 3.5955. We also know that the midpoint between 3.59 and 3.60 is 3.595. 3.5955 is bigger than 3.95. It's to the right, over here. So, it's closer to 3.6 than it is to 3.59. That means we round it to 3.60. Let's go back to the question about your paycheck. You make 7.95 an hour and you work for 8.5 hours. We multiply those two together to get 67.575, but your employer is probably not going to write you a check for $67.575. That doesn't make very much sense. So that means, we need to round this to the hundredths place, which means rounding to two decimal places. Round 67.575 to two decimal places, enter your answer in this box. All right, we're rounding to two decimal places. So here's the second decimal place. Let's look to the right to 5. The 5 means that we round up. So our answer is $67.58. Andy and I are going to start out by taking a few measurements. So, what we have are two circles. We've got a big one, which is a bike tire. And we've got a little one, which is a pie. We're going to be measuring the circumference, which is the length all the way around the outside of the circle. And we're also going to be measuring the diameter, which is the length across the circle. All right, so let's start with the bike tire, and measure it's circumference. I'm going to start here and go all the way round. Thanks for helping, Rachel. And there we go. Now I'm going to measure the length of this using the tape measure. Or, Rachel will. [BLANK_AUDIO] Okay, and it's 88 inches. I'm going to write that down. Okay, so now let's measure the circumference of the pie. And again, I'm going to start here and ask Rachel to help hold it. And go all the way around. All right, and when we measure the length of that. Okay, and that's 28.25 inches. I'll write that down too. [BLANK_AUDIO] And now, let's measure the diameter of the bike tire. Looks like it's 28 inches. And the diameter of the pie [BLANK_AUDIO] Is about nine inches. Now that we've measured the circumference and the diameter of both the bike tire and the pie, it's time for a quiz. Divide the circumference by the diameter for both the tire and the pie and do your answers here. Round to two decimal places. For both the tire and the pie, you should have gotten 3.14. [BLANK_AUDIO] We could actually do this calculation, the circumference over diameter, for any circle and get the same number. Its true value is actually 3.141592, and actually it just keeps going on and on and on pretty much forever. But usually it just gets rounded to 3.14. We give this number the name pi, which we write like this. So this is the symbol for pi and we can also write it like this, P-I. Remember that the circumference is the length around the outside of a circle. So that's this blue line here. And the diameter is the length of a line that passes through the center of the circle and whose endpoints lie on the circle. So this line here. You can also think about this as the width of the circle. This should not be confused with the radius which is the length of a line from the center of the circle to the perimeter. It's important to note that the radius is half the length of the diameter or the diameter is twice the length of the radius. There is a relationship between circumference and diameter. Pi links them. We can find the circumference C of any circle using C = Pi times diameter D. Since diameter is the same thing as twice the radius this can also be written as c = 2 pi r Given that circumference equals pi times diameter. What is the circumference of a circle with diameter equals 3? Enter your answer here. And remember pi equals about 3.14. The circumference is 9.42. That's because the circumference equals pie times the diameter, which is equal to about 3.14 times the diameter, which is 3. And that gives us 9.42. Now what is the circumference of a circle with r = 3. Remember that the radius is half the diameter. When the radius is 3, the circumference is 18.84. We can calculate this with c equals 2 pi r. So we get 2 times 3.14 times 3, which gives us 18.84. The radius at pi come together in the equation for the area of a circle. Area is a measure of how much space is inside of a circle. So, ll of this dark green parted here. The relationship between area radius and pie is a equals Pie r squared. Remember A is for area. R is for radius. So if we had a circle with radius = 2, the area would be equal to 3.14 times 2 squared which = 12.56. So what is the area of a circle with a radius of 6? Enter your answer here. The area is 113.04. That's because area = 3.14 times 6 squared. We do that calculation to get 113.04. Now, what is the area of a circle with diameter equals 6? Be careful. This one's a bit tricky. The area is 28.26. Remember that the diameter is twice the length of the radius. If the diameter is equal to 6, we know the radius will have to be half of that. So the radius would be 3. So now we can plug that into our formula, A equals pi r squared, which gives us 3.14 x 3 squared. Square the three, multiply it by 3.14 and you get 28.26. What is one-fourth plus 0.32? How do you get your answer? To answer questions like this, we need to know how to convert fractions to decimals and decimals to fractions Before we start converting fractions to decimals, let's think about what a fraction is. If I write one-fourth, what am I really doing? One-fourth is the same as 1 times 4, 1 divided by 4, 1 plus 4, or 1 minus 4? Please pick one. One-fourth is the same thing as one divided by four. That's what a fraction is. So since fractions are just division, we can convert a fraction to a decimal by performing that division. Let's take an easy one, one half. This is the same thing as 1 divided by 2. This might be a good time to remind you that 1 is the same thing as 1.0 which is also the same thing as 1.00, which is also the same thing as 1.000. Adding more 0's after the decimal point here does not change the value of 1. It just tells us a more precise value for 1. So in order to be more precise and to make division here a little more easy, I'm going to add a few extra trailing 0s here. And by adding these extra 0s after the decimal point, I still have not changed the value of 1. I'm just being more precise. All right, on with the division. 2 goes into 1 0 times. Now let's make sure that we put our decimal point that's here, we'll also put it up here. So now how many times does 2 go into 10 here? It should go in 5 times. 2 times 5 is 10. And when we subtract, we get 0. And there we go, we have 0 here, so 0.5 is our answer. One-half is the same thing as 0.5. Now you give it a shot. What is three-fifths as a decimal? Enter your answer here. Three-fifths is same thing as 0.6. Let's see why. Three-fifths is same thing is 3 divided by 5. To make life a little easier and to be more precise, I'm going to add a few trailing 0s. And then I want to remember to put my decimal place up here. And how many times does 5 go into 3? Well, 0. What about 30? 5 goes into 30, 6 times. 5 times 6 is 30. Subtract and we get 0. All right, we have 0 down here, that means we're done. Our answer is 0.6. Now, not every fraction is so easy. Some go on forever. For example, let's say we want to convert one-third to a decimal. Let's try doing the same method we did before. So this is the same thing as 1 divided by 3. And again for precision, we'll add a few trailing 0s here, and we'll add a decimal point right here. So how many times does 3 go into 1? 0, and how many times does 3 go into 10? That'd be 3. 3 times 3 is 9. Let's do our subtraction, and we get 1. We'll bring our 0 down. And now how many times does 3 go into 10 here? Once again, it'll go in 3 times. And we get 9, we do our subtraction, and what do you know? We get 1 again. Bring down our 0 and same as before, 3 goes into 10 3 times, and it looks like there's a pattern here. It looks like we could just keep going on forever and we would just keep adding more 3s. And in fact, that's true. This is called a repeating decimal. It's called a repeating decimal because the 3 here repeats on forever. So we can write this a couple of ways. The fraction one-third is equivalent to 0.3 with a bar over it. The bar over the top here means that the 3s go on forever. But because there's a bar, we don't have to keep writing the 3s. Sometimes this is also written as 0.33 with a bar over it. It's the same thing. We could also use rounding, and if we decide to round to two decimal places, that means we look at these two 3s, and we move over to the right one. And because this is less than 5, we can just ignore it. So I will use this symbol which means about equal to 0.33. We rounded off all the 3s after the first two decimals. We can write one-third is approximately equal to 0.33. Now can you tell me what is one-seventh as a decimal? Round your answer to two decimal places and enter it here. The answer rounded to two decimal places is 0.14. Let's take a look at the division. Seven goes into one zero times and it goes into ten and one time. We do our subtraction and we get three. Let's bring that zero down. Seven goes into thirty four times, seven times four is 28. Do our subtraction, we get 2, carry that next 0 down, 7 goes into 20 2 times, 7 times 2 is 14. Do our subtraction, bring down another 0. 7 goes into 60 8 times, 7 times 8 is 56, and again we do our subtraction. It's starting to look like we could keep doing this for a really long time. Fortunately, we just had to round to two decimal places, just 0.14. So if you wanted to add 1/4 + 0.32, what would the answer be? Write your answer here as a decimal. The answer here is 0.57. And in order to get this answer the first thing that we should do is convert 1/4 into a decimal. Let's use our regular procedure for turning a fraction into a decimal. 4 goes into 1, 0 times. 4 goes into 10, 2 times. 2 x 4 is 8, subtract that and get 2. Bring down a 0 and 4 goes into 20, 5 times. 4 x 5 is 20. Do our subtraction and hey, we have 0, so we can just stop right here. 1/4 as a decimal is 0.25. So 1/4 + 0.32 is really the same thing as 0.25 + 0.32. And what we're left with is 0.57. [BLANK_AUDIO] Let's think about one-fourth plus 0.32 a different way. Previously, we turned one-fourth into a decimal and added it that way. But we can also solve it by adding fractions. That means we have to convert a decimal into a fraction. But how do we do that? First let's think about how we even read decimal numbers. What is the proper way to state this decimal? Is it 627 tenths? 627 hundreths? Or 627 thousandths? Please select one. [BLANK_AUDIO] The correct answer is six hundred twenty seven thousandths. Remember, when we see a number like 142, the 1 represents, 1 hundred, the 4 is, 4 tens and the 2 is just 2 ones. We call this the ones place, this is the tens place, and this is the hundreds place. Likewise, in a decimal like 0.627, the 6 represents 6 tenths, the 2 is 2 hundredths, and the 7 is 7 thousandths. Altogether, this is six hundred twenty seven thousandths. The way that we say this number gives us a clue about how to write it as a fraction. 0.627 or six hundred twenty seven thousandths, would be written as a fraction as six hundred twenty seven over a thousand. Using this place value chart, write one hundred and nine thousandths as a fraction. Write your answer in these boxes with the numerator on the top and the denominator in the bottom. One hundred and nine-thousandths as a fraction would look like this, 109 is the numerator and 1000 is the denominator. As a decimal it looks like this. [BLANK_AUDIO] So, how do we do this with other decimals? Once we know how to state the number, we can make the conversion. Let's look at these three decimals. How would we talk about these numbers? Well I'd say three-tenths, nineteen-hundredths, and two-hundred-and-eleven-thousandths. The number written in purple becomes the numerator, and the word written in green becomes the denominator tenths. This becomes nineteen-hundredths and this becomes two-hundred-and-eleven-thousandths. So what is the equivalent fraction of eighty-one-hundredths? Write your answer here with the numerator up on the top, and the denominator down on the bottom. The equivalent fraction of 0.81, is 0.81 over 100. What is the equivalent fraction of 0.82? Enter your answer here and make sure it's in its simplest form. [BLANK_AUDIO] The answer is 41 over 50. To get this we start by writing eighty-two hundredths as a fraction. And we notice that 82 and 100 have a common factor of two. We can write this as 2 times 41 / 2 times 50. Divide the two out of the numerator and the denominator and we're left with 41/50. Let's try something a bit more interesting. How would you convert 2.18 into an equivalent fraction? Enter your answer here and don't worry if you don't get it right away, this one's a bit tricky. The answer here is 218/100. This number 2.18 hundredths is the same thing as 218 hundredths, which using our convention becomes 218/100. We should actually have simplified this to 109/50, but either one will work for this answer. Okay. So what is one fourth + 0.32 as a fraction? This is a bit tricky again. You'll need to find a common denominator. Enter your answer here with the numerator on the top and the denominator on the bottom. The answer is 57/100. The first thing we did to solve this problem was to write 32 hundredths as a fraction. 32 hundredths becomes 32/100. So our new expression is 1/4 + 32/100. We need to find a common denominator, which we can get by multiplying 1/4 by 25. Don't forget you multiply both the numerator and the denominator by 25. Our equivalent fraction is 25/100 and now our expression becomes 25/100 + 32/100. These two fractions have a common denominator, so we just add the numerators together and they add to 57. And the denominator stays 100. So there we go, 57/100. The US National Deficit is about $17 trillion. This is what $17 trillion looks like with all the zeros written out. That's a lot of zeros. Writing out all those zeros took, writing out all those zeros was kind of annoying. Luckily, we have something called the scientific notation to help us write really big or really small numbers. Using scientific notation, we would write this number as 1.7 times ten to the tenth. Let's learn how to do that. Let's start our scientific notation discussion by talking a bit about powers of ten and exponents. Can you tell me what is 10 to the fourth? Write your answer in this box. 10 to the fourth is 10,000. This is an exponent, and an exponent means we multiply the base by itself, the power number of times. So 10 to the fourth equals 10 times 10 times 10 times 10. So there are four tens here, 10 times 10 times 10 times 10 equals 10,000. Notice that there are four zeros, and the power is four. Let's take this one step further. What does 1.5 x 10 to the 4th mean? We know that 10 to the 4th equals 10 x 10 x 10 x 10, which equals 10,000. So 1.5 x 10 to the 4th is the same thing as 1.5 x 10,000. What is 1.5 x 10,000? [BLANK_AUDIO] 1.5 times 10,000 is the same thing as 15,000. [BLANK_AUDIO] How many places did we move the decimal in 1.5 x 10 to the 4th, to get to 15,000? Enter your answer here. The decimal moved 4 places. This might be a good time to explain that 15,000 is written in standard notation which is probably how you're used to seeing large numbers written, but when working with very large numbers or very small numbers, it can sometimes be easier to write them in scientific notation. 1.5 x 10 to the 4th is in scientific notation. 3.2 times 10 to the 5th is in scientific notation. Try writing it in standard notation. 3.2 times 10 to the 5th is 320,000 in standard notation written like this. We got this by multiplying 3.2 times 10 to the 5th which is the same thing as 3.2 times ten times ten times ten times ten times ten, five tens. Which is the same thing as 3.2 times 100,000. Notice again that there are five zeros here, and ten was raised to the fifth power. When we multiplied 3.2 x 100,000, the decimal place started between the 3 and the 2. Then we moved the decimal place over five times. One times, two times, three times, four times, five times to get 320,000. [BLANK_AUDIO] We know that 1.5 times 10 to the fourth is 15 thousand. What do you think 1.5 times 10 to the negative fourth is? Here's the hint, when we multiplied 1.5 times 10 to the fourth we move the decimal place to the right 4 times. Enter your answer here. 1.5 times 10 to the negative fourth is 0.00015. We moved the decimal place to the left four times. We multiplied 1.5 times 10 to the negative fourth which is 0.0001. 1.5 times 0.0001 = 0.00015. The decimal place moved to the left four times. One, two, three, four When we multiply something by a positive power of 10, the product is a bigger number and we move the decimal to the right. When we multiply something by a negative power of 10, we get a smaller number and we move the decimal to the left. This is worth writing down. Now convert 3.2 x 10 to the -5th into standard notation. [BLANK_AUDIO] 3.2 x 10 to the -5th = 0.000032. We move the decimal five places to the left. What do you think is the correct way to write this number in scientific notation? Please select one. This is the correct notation. You may have noticed that all of these are equivalent to our original number, but only this one is in the correct notation. In scientific notation there should only be one number on the left of the decimal point. It doesn't really matter how many numbers are in the right of the decimal point, but usually it's no more than two or maybe three. Another thing to note the number on the left of the decimal point should not be 0. You might have noticed that moving the decimal place to the right decreases the power that 10 is raised to, and that moving the decimal place to the left increases the power the 10 is raised to. So, every time we move the decimal to the right one place, as we do with .27 to 2.7, we have to take one away from the number that 10 is raised to, so we go from 10 to 9. These numbers are not written in scientific notation. For each number, correct it, so that it is written in scientific notation by first entering what the decimal should look like, and then, entering what power 10 should be raised to. I'll help with the first one. 33 times 10 to the 3rd should be 3.3 times ten to the 4th. If you're having trouble, it might help to write out the full number, and then, turn it into scientific notation. This should be 9.8 x 10 to the 8th. We moved the decimal to the right two times. So we need to decrease the power of 10 two times. This should be 7.0 x 10 to the 9th. We moved the decimal to the left two times and so we need to increase the power of 10 two times. Convert 34 million to scientific notation. As in the previous example, the decimal should go here and the power should go here. 34,000,000 in scientific notation is 3.4x10 to the 7th. Scientific notation can be used for very small numbers too. As we saw previously, when we discussed standard notation, when we are working with numbers that are much smaller than 1, for example 0.000001 10 is raised to a negative power. So, in order to write this in scientific notation, I would have to write 1.0 x 10 to the negative 6. That's because I moved my decimal place 6 places to the right to turn 0.000001 into 1.0. Now you try. Write this number in scientific notation. Again, put the decimal in this box and indicate the power here. This should be 1.97 x 10 to the -8. We move the decimal place over to the left eight times. Great work, we've covered a lot of material. [BLANK_AUDIO] Did you know that nine out of ten mathematicians say that learning ratios is super important? In this topic, we're going to talk about ratios, rates and unit conversions. And if you've ever used a term like miles per gallon or dollars per hour, you've used a rate. And if you've ever converted between kilometers and miles or dollars and euros, you've used a unit conversion. This stuff shows of all the time and maybe the most useful stuff you learn in this class. So I hope you're as excited as I am. Let's get started Today we get to talk about one of the most relevant, useful, and interesting aspects of math. We get to talk about rates. And when we talk about rates what we're really talking about is this sign. And all of the interesting math underlying both the number and the unit associated with that number. So before we really get started, I have a question. How would you read this sign? I know that it's 35 and that the M stands for miles and the H stands for hour, but what does the P stand for? Enter your answer here. The P stands for per. By adding these three letters, MPH, we've taken what would otherwise be this boring old number, 35, and we've brought it into reality. This number now means something, but what does it mean? So let's explore this a little more, we know it means 35 miles per hour, but can you tell me which of the following is the best way to represent this number mathematically? And maybe you know this one or maybe you don't doesn't really matter but take a look at the three options and select what you think is best. And the correct representation is the first. 35 miles per hour is the same as 35 miles divided by 1 hour. So it looks like this word, per, means division. And this quantity, 35 miles per hour, is what we call a rate. And in this case this particular rate is comparing miles to hours. And we use these rates whenever we compare two quantities that have different units, so for example, miles and hours. And this is important enough that it may be worth writing down. So, we use rates to compare two quantities with different units. Maybe you can use information to answer a question. Which of the following sentences contain a rate? I make $12 an hour. I'm so thirsty, I could drink three cups of water. 4 million babies are born per year in the United States or in every 20 ounces of coke, there 260 calories. Check all that you think apply. And three of these are rates. In each of these I can identify the two different quantities. For example, dollars and hours, babies and years, and ounces of Coke and calories. Which means I could write write these rates as $12 divided by one hour, four million babies divided by one year, or two hundred sixty calories divided by twenty ounces of coke. And notice that the word and here actually corresponded to per, it actually meant division. And also notice that over here, even though ounces of Coke, came first in the sentence, I decide to put it in the denominator of my rate. And will see that with rate we have the freedom to decide which quantity goes in the numerator and which goes in denominator. But we'll explore that a little bit more later. Now that we know a little bit about rates let's put them into use. For example, let's say we have a waiter at a restaurant who in three hours time makes $40 in tips. So what I want to know is if we have this waiter who makes $40 in three hours, what is his tip rate? Enter your answer as a fraction with the numerator here and denominator here and don't forget your units. The words dollars and hours should appear in your answers. And the answer is $40 over 3 hours. Now, technically, if you wrote 3 hours over $40, you would have been correct, but in this case it makes more sense to talk about the tip rate in dollars per hour. Back in the days before email campaigns, contacting a lot of people meant stuffing envelopes. So, let's say that a group of volunteers can stuff 205 envelopes in 10 hours, and what I want to know is, what is their stuffing rate? Enter your answers as a fraction in these boxes, and don't forget your units. And the answer is 205 envelopes over 10 hours. But let's take a look at 205 over 10. Well they each share a common factor 5. 205 is 5 times 41 and 10 is 5 times 2. They can simplify and this means that I should really write my answer as a 41 envelopes over two hours. In the last question of the previous section, we saw that if you drive your car 150 miles in three hours, you can describe that with a rate of 150 miles over three hours. This rate simplifies into 50 miles over one hour or 50 miles per hour. This version of the rate is what's known as a unit rate. The reason this is a unit rate, we have this uni in here which means one, is because a unit rate is any rate where the value of the denominator is 1. These rates can be super useful, primarily because they're easy to compare. Let's start with a simple question. Rafael drives his car at 64 miles an hour and Anastasia drives at 62 miles per hour. Who drives faster, Rafael or Anastasia? This is not a trick question. And the answer of course, is that Rafael drives faster. 64 miles per hour is faster than 62. And the reason this was so easy to compare is because 64 miles per hour, really means 64 miles divided by 1 hour. And 62 miles an hour mean 62 miles divided by 1 hour. They have the same denominator and it's easy to compare. And see that this quantity is great than this. So that question is pretty straightforward, let's see where unit rates really become helpful. So, let's say that Rafael drove his car for 7 hours and went 448 miles. And Anastasia drove 496 miles in 8 hours, now who drove faster? Rafael or Anastasia? And if you haven't written this down yet, it may be a good time to do so. It will help you solve this problem. Well, let's see. Hidden in these two statements are two rates. The first compares 448 miles to seven hours, and the other compares 496 miles to eight hours. And we want to see which of these rates, which of these speeds, is higher. So we're going to convert them to a unit rate. So, let's see. For Rafael, he went 448 miles in seven hours, 448 is actually just seven times 64. So I have this, over this, and notice the common factor. So we simplify, and this gives me a unit rate of 64 miles over one hour. So again, he was going 64 miles per hour. We can do the same thing for Anastasia, and I notice that 496, is just eight times 62, I see there's a common factor, and so written as a unit rate, Anastasia's speed is 62 miles per hour. 64, once again, is bigger than 62, so Raphael went faster. Even though Anastasia went farther, 496 versus 448 miles, it took her an hour longer. To calculate their speeds, I had to calculate a unit rate. Let's do the practice question with speed. Let's say I drive 160 miles in 3 hours. What is my speed? Be careful 3 doesn't divide evenly into 160, so please round to one decimal place. Enter your answer here, a unit rate with one hour in the denominator. I've already given you the denominator and don't forget to include your unit in the numerator. And the answer's that my speed would be 53.3 miles divided by 1 hour. 53.3 miles per hour. Unit rates aren't always used to talk about speeds, like miles per hour. They can even be used for a ton of purposes like talking about the price per ounce of a box of pretzels. So can you tell me what is the the price in dollars per ounce of Pretzelicious pretzels? Enter your answer here, and all you have to provide is the number of dollars. I've included the dollars per one ounce. And you should round to the nearest cent. Well, I want to write this as a unit rate. I have $3.50 over 15 ounces. So 3.5 dollars over 15 ounces. And if I do 3.5 divided by 15, I get 0.23 dollars over 1 ounce. And what's cool about these unit rates is I can use them to make decisions. So let's say I'm comparing Pretzelicious pretzels to Pretztastic pretzels. And these are more expensive but they're a little bigger. What I really care about is which one's a better deal, Pretzelicious or Pretztastic pretzels. Compare their unit rates and choose the best answer. Well we already saw Pretzelicious was $0.23 per ounce. Pretztastic is three 360 or $3.6 over 18 ounces. And when I do this division, 3.6 over 18, I find a unit price of $0.20 per ounce, and that's less than Pretzelicious. So since these are cheaper per ounce, they're a better deal and I'm going to go with Pretztastic. Well in order to compete with Pretz-tastic fantastic prices, Pretzel-icious had to make a sale. Now for a limited time only they only cost $2.75 for a 15 ounce box. Now what's the better deal pretzel-icious or Pretz-tastic? Well Pretz Tastic is still the same unit cost, 20 cents per ounce. Pretzelicious is 2.75 for 15 ounces. When I do the division, 2.75 divide by 15 is $0.18 per ounce, which is two cents cheaper, making Pretzellicious the new best deal. Gas is expensive. So it's good to know about mileage. Let's say Melissa and Shanice are comparing their cars. Melissa's car goes 343 miles with 15 gallons of gas. Shanice's car goes 300 miles on 12 gallons of gas. I want to know what is the gas mileage of each car? Enter you answer in these boxes in miles per gallon. And I've already given you the unit. So you just have to enter the number. Well let's see for Melissa's car 343 miles divided by 15 gallons. Well 343 divided by 15 is 22.8666 repeating. Okay. Okay. So I'm just going to call that round up to 23 miles per gallon. And for Shanice, well we could do the same thing. With 300 divided by 12 is exactly 25. So she gets 25 miles per gallon. So we know their miles per gallon. Which car gets better gas mileage? Melissa's or Shanice's? Better means higher because we'd rather go more miles on a single gallon of gas. And Shanice's goes two miles further than Melissa's does on one gallon of gas. In the previous section, we saw that rates compare two quantities with different units. For example, 25 miles per gallon, $0.23 per ounce, or 0.7 hits per at-bat. These are all rates. But what if we want to compare two quantities with the same units. Then we don't want rates. What we actually want are called ratios and they're very similar to rates but the two quantities have the same unit. For example, let's say a TV commercial says something like three out of five dentists recommend Toothtaste. Which of course is the flavorful toothpaste. This is a ratio because what we're actually saying when we say three out of five dentists, is three dentists out of five dentists prefer this toothpaste. It compares dentist to dentist. Can you identify the following examples as rates, ratios, or neither? Eight out of ten cats prefer Whiskas, gas costs $4.25 per gallon, out of 500 graduates, 200 got business jobs, and the Eiffel Tower is 324 meters tall. In each of these boxes, enter either rate, ratio, or neither. Well let's see. Eight out of ten cats prefer Whiskas. That's comparing eight cats to ten cats. Even though I didn't write cats here, this eight was referring to cats. So those are the same units, that makes that a ratio. Gas costs $4.25 per gallon. So gallon is one unit and dollars is a different unit. Okay so that's different units means rates. Out of 500 grads, 200 grads got business jobs. That's a ratio. And the Eiffel Tower is 324 meters tall. Well, that's just a fact, that's neither a rate nor a ratio. If you got these all right, great work, and if not don't worry. We're going to talk more about this in this lesson. Now with our dentist example, we wrote 3 dentists out of 5 dentists to describe the ratio of dentists that prefer a certain toothpaste. But in math, our units, which in this case we're referring to dentists, they behave a bit like numbers actually. And so what that means is when I have dentists over dentists like this, I can actually simplify by just crossing out the common, we can think of it as a factor. This means that 3 dentists out of 5 dentists is the same as 3/5. That is our ratio here, and it's just a pure number again. No units involved at all. We'll see why this is useful in a bit, but first let's do a little bit of practicing. Let's look at the first ratio from our previous question. 8 out of 10 cats prefer Whiskas. Can you write this is a ratio? Enter your answer in this box, and keep in mind what we did here to go from 3 out of 5 dentists to just 3 over 5. Well, 8 out of 10 cats prefer Whiskas, so we could write, 8 cats out of 10 cats. But the units will simplify, which means we just have 8 out of 10. That further simplifies to 4 out of 5. What about this example? Out of 500 grads, 200 got business jobs. Can you enter this as a ratio? And be careful about what goes in the numerator and what goes in the denominator. The answer to this one is actually 2/5. And don't worry if you put 5/2, or 200/500. We're still learning this stuff. But just because I said 500 first does not mean it goes in the numerator. So how do we decide which number goes in the numerator? So we know we can identify a ratio by seeing if it's comparing two quantities that have the same units, comparing dentist to dentists or graduates to graduates, but which quantity comes first? To answer this question, I like to think to myself, how could I phrase this as a out of b something. And let me explain what I mean, when we had the statement, three out of five dentists recommend Toothtaste, the tasty toothpaste, our ratio was three out of five, three over five. In this case three dentist was my a and five dentists was my b. Or we could think it as three was my a and five was my b, but when we had the statement out of 500 grads, 200 got jobs in business. Well, I could not say 500 out of 200 grads got jobs in business, that's wrong. So I could not write 500 out of 200 or 5 out of 2. However, I could have rephrased this as, 200 out of 500 grads got jobs in business. And now 200 is my a, 500 is my b and my ratio is 200 out of 500 or 2 out of 5. So it looks like once I can phrase something as a out of b, then I can say that the ratio is a over b. Let's do a little bit of practice. So for the following ratios, select which quantity goes in the numerator. Three out of four students are girls. For every 17 cars on the road, 2 are unregistered. And for every 90 babies, 32 will live to be 100. For each of these three statements, select the appropriate button for the quantity that belongs in the numerator. Well three out of four students are girls. This is already written as a out of b. And the first one goes in the numerator. For every 17 cars in the road 2 are unregistered. Well I wouldn't say 17 out of 2 are unregistered. I would say 2 cars out of 17, so 2 comes first. Finally, for every 90 babies, 32 will live to be 100. Well, I would say 32 out of 90 babies will live to be 100. [BLANK_AUDIO] Let's do a little more practice. So, what's the ratio in the following sentence? In our building, there are two color printers for every nine printers. Enter the ratio in these boxes. Numerator up here, denominator down here. Well, out phrase says, 2 out of 9 printers are color printers. So 2 out of 9. Let's do one more example, of the 500 students who graduate this year from high school, 250 are going to go to college. Can you tell me what's the ratios of students who will attend college to total number of graduates and to answer here as a fraction. Well it looks like 250 students out of 500 students will attend college, so we have 250 out of 500, and this simplifies to one out of two. Half of the students will attend college. Now in this previous question, the ratio is 1 to 2. Sometimes you'll see such a ratio written as 1 colon 2. And this just means the exact same thing is 1 over 2. I actually prefer 1 over 2, because really what we're doing is division, but you will see this a lot and I don't want you to be confused when you do. So, for example with 3 out of 5 dentists, this ratio is the same as 3:5, and you would read that as 3 out of 5, or 3 to 5. And so, thinking of the examples we've gone over so far. 3 out of 5 dentists, 8 out of 10 cats, 200 out of 500 graduates, and 2 to 9 being the ratio of color printers to total printers, we could have written any of these using our colon notation. 3:5, 8:10, 200:500, 2:9. Of course, we should still simplify when we can, but the idea is the same. Let's do a little bit of practice. As I'm filming this, it's near tax day in the United States. So 3 out of 36 forms were filed incorrectly. I want to know, what's the ratio in this sentence? Enter your answer in this box, and this time, try using colon notation. Well let's see, 3 out of 36. The first thing I'm going to do is simplify, and that simplifies to 1 out of 12 and so I'm going to write that as 1:12. This lesson is all about the world's most amazing number. And I really mean this. This is an exciting number. And it's okay if you don't get as excited as I am, but the number we're going to talk about today really is mind blowing. And the amazing things you can do with it are incredibly useful. And this number has two important properties that I want to discuss. One of these properties has to do with multiplication, and the other has to do with division. So let's actually start with the second property, division. And let's do that by doing some division problems. So can you tell me what is 3/3, and what is pi/pi? And also, what is -4/-4? Enter your answers in these three boxes. And bear with me, this lesson is going to start a bit slowly, but I promise it's going to get very interesting. And the answer is that 3/3 is 1, pi/pi is 1, and -4/-4 is also 1. In fact, any number divided by itself is 1. And this may seem obvious, but it's actually pretty incredible. So, a number divided by itself is 1, but this doesn't just work for numbers. It works for things too like eggs. So let's say I have two eggs and I divide them by two eggs. What does that equal? [BLANK_AUDIO] Think about it. I know this is a weird question, but I promise we're going somewhere with this. Enter your answer here. Well, it's equal to 1. 2 eggs divided by 2 eggs is just 1. [BLANK_AUDIO] But let's explore this a little bit further because I don't buy eggs individually from the store, I buy them in carts. And just like with anything else, I could say that one carton divided by one carton is equal to one, but there's something else I could say. There's a relationship between the cartons and eggs. Can you tell me, one carton is equal to how many eggs? Enter your answer here. Well, one carton of eggs is equal to 12 eggs, and maybe he did that by just counting up all the individual eggs or maybe you knew already. Okay so we agree one carton of eggs is really the exact same thing as 12 eggs. They're equal but I don't like having a whole carton of eggs floating around. [BLANK_AUDIO] So I'm just going to say 1 carton and because they're equal I can say 1 carton equals 12 eggs. Or that 12 eggs equals 1 carton, they're the same thing. And now I'm going to do something a little strange. So we've seen that 1 carton divided by 1 carton is 1. We've seen that 12 eggs equals 1 carton. What is 12 eggs divided by 1 carton? This is a tough question. I want you to really think about this and enter your answer here. And 12 eggs divided by 1 carton is equal to 1. Now this is kind of mind blowing. You may have said 12, and that sort of makes sense right 12/1, but because we're talking about eggs and cartons and we know that 12 eggs is the same thing as 1 carton this is actually equal to 1. So, 12 eggs divided by 1 carton is 1. Let's explore the consequence of this. [BLANK_AUDIO] Can you tell me how many eggs are in 3 cartons. And there's a lot of ways to solve this, and I bet you'll get the right answer. But what's interesting here is how you get that answer. So, go ahead and put your answer here And the answer is that in 3 cartons, there are 36 eggs. Now you may have bought three cartons of eggs and counted them up or you may have done some multiplication. If you multiplied, you may be tempted to say you multiplied by twelve. But you actually didn't. To solve this problem by multiplication you do not multiply by 12, not really at least, you actually multiply by 1. [BLANK_AUDIO] Because multiplying by 1 never changes our number. 3 cartons times 1. So what next? Well I have a very special version of 1 that I'd like to use, one that we just came up with. 12 eggs divided by 1 carton, and I'm free to do this because hey, this is equal to 1. And now something interesting happens. Because cartons is up here and carton is down here, it's like a common factor. And common factors simplify, they cancel out. Now what I'm left with is 3 times 12 eggs, divided by 1. Well division by 1 never changes anything, so let's just get rid of that. And 3 times 12. [BLANK_AUDIO] That's just 36. So 3 kinds of eggs is really equal to 36 eggs. And we got it by multiplying by 1, or a special version of 1. And we call that version a conversion factor. And a conversion factor is just a number that relates amount of one thing to the amount of another thing, and it's always equal to our favorite number 1. And we've already seen how to use a conversion factor to go from number of cartons to number of eggs. And the conversion factor we used was 12 eggs divided by 1 carton, but cartons and eggs aren't the only thing that we can convert using a conversion factor. We can convert between units of distance, or volume, or even money. If we have the correct conversion factor, for example, let's look at yards to feet. There are three feet in every yard which means 3 feet = 1 yard, in the same way that 12 eggs was equal to one carton. But that's not quite our conversion factor. The conversion factor is 3 feet divided by 1 yard and this is equal to 1 since these quantities are identical. So let's practice using one of these conversion factors. Let's say that you need 4 yards of ribbon. I don't know, maybe you're having a birthday party or something. But the store you're in sells ribbon by the foot. How many feet of ribbon should us for ask for? Enter your answer here. Well let's see, we want 4 yards, but we want to convert yards into feet. So we should use our conversion factor. So I multiplied by 3 feet over 1 yard. I've got this common factor in the numerator and the denominator, and I'm left with is 4 x 3 feet, which is 12 feet of ribbon. For the next few questions, I'm just going to give you a few true statements, and you're going to have to create the conversion factor, select the appropriate one, and answer the question. So, here are some conversion factors. They relate to distances, miles to feet, volumes, like gallons and quarts. And weights like grams and milligrams, or pounds and ounces. So for the first question, let's say that your friend lives 3 miles from your house. How far is that in feet? Enter your answer here, and you may want to use a calculator for this one. Well, let's see. 3 miles, that's the distance we're working with. And I'm going to be relating miles to feet, so it looks like I'm going to use this statement somehow. And I know I want to multiply by something, but what's my conversion factor going to be? Is it going to be 1 mile divided by 5282 feet? No, it can't be, because miles doesn't cancel out. Here we have miles up top and feet down below. What we really want is to cancel out this unit of miles so that we're left just with feet. So this, this is wrong. Instead I'm going to multiply by 5280 feet divided by 1 mile. And I'm allowed to do that. It doesn't matter if feet or miles goes on top because either way I'm multiplying by 1. I just have to select the correct conversion factor so that miles will cancel out. I'm left with 3 x 5280. My units are feet. And if I plug this into my calculator or do some multiplication, I find a distance of 15,840 feet. Let's do some more practice. Let's say you need to buy two and a half gallons of milk. And let's say that the store only sells gallons and quarts. How many gallons and how many quarts should you buy? And you want to make sure the buy exactly two and a half gallons with no extra milk, and that you don't buy any more containers than necessary. How many containers of each size should you buy? Well the first thing I'm going to do to get two and a half gallons of milk is buy the two gallons. Then I still have a half gallon left to buy. I'm going to write that as 0.5 gallons that I want to buy. And obviously I can't buy another gallon of milk, that'd be too much, and I said I can have any left over, so I need to buy quarts. So I'm going to multiply by my conversion factor, which is four quarts over one gallon. I see an opportunity to simplify, and then I have 0.5 x 4. My unit is quarts, and so I should buy two quarts. Two gallons and two quarts. All right. Let's do another practice question using unit conversions which, of course, means using our favorite number, one. So let's say we're throwing a party and we're going to serve chicken wings to our guests, and we're going to serve 0.3 pounds of wings per person. And we're expecting that there will be 60 people at the party. And, finally, we know that chicken wings come in 24 ounce packages for $6 each. The question is how much will you pay. Enter your answer here. And this is a pretty involved question, so if you don't get it right the first time, don't worry. But give it your best shot. Now I have to admit there's a lot going on in this question. At the end of the day, we want to know how much we have to pay. Well, that's a question of money and money shows up here. It's $6 for each 24 ounce package of chicken wings. Okay, so I guess that means I need to know how many 24 ounce packages I need. Which means I need to figure out how much chicken I need to order. Okay, well the first thing I want to do is figure out how many pounds I'm going to have to order. And I know I'm getting 0.3 pounds per person, which I can write like this, and that there are 60 people. So I'm going to multiply by 60 people. Well, person, people, same thing then they cancel out. So I have 60 times 0.3 and the only unit left is pounds. And this works out to eighteen pounds. Okay, so I need to buy 18 pounds of chicken. How many ounces is that? Looks like I need to convert to ounces to figure out how many of these packages I have to buy. Well, I'm going to multiply by my conversion factor, which is going to be 16 ounces divided by one pound. Again, my units cancel. I'm left with 18 times 16 ounces. Plug that into my calculator, and I find that I need 288 ounces of chicken wings and I should point out that, normally I'd be doing this all on separate lines. And that's how you should be doing it in your book. I just want to make sure this all stays on the same page, so I'm being a little bit sloppier than I normally should be. So we need 288 ounces of chicken. How many packages is that? Well,l I could just think of this is dividing 288 by 24 and that would give me the answer. But as long as we're thinking in terms of conversion factors, I want to write it like this. Times one package over 24 ounces of chicken. And again, units cancel. Ounces of chicken go away. But now I have to multiply by 1 over 24. Which, again, is just like dividing by 24. And the unit I have left is package. So I get 12 packages of chicken. Now how much do I have to pay? Well, it's $6 per package. I can even think of that as being a conversion factor. Package cancels, and I'm left with $72. And that's the answer you should have gotten. And if you didn't, believe me, I understand. There was a lot going on here. I would re-watch this video and see if you can make sense of all of the different uses of conversion factors because there were a ton in here. Once you can get to the point where you can answer this question without seeing the solution video, well, you're good to go. This is a map of the United States. Right now, I live in California which is over here. But when I was growing up, I lived somewhere here in Vermont. And notice that Vermont is right next to the border of Canada. And as a kid, I'd go up to Canada pretty often. And when I did, something interesting would happen. The speed limit signs would change from this, which means 65 miles per hour, to this. And my question is, what explains this change in speed limit? Do they just drive faster in Canada? Do they measure distance differently? Or do they measure time differently? The answer is not the first one, please do not cross the Canadian border and start driving 100 miles an hour. And it's not the third. Pretty much all around the world, people use seconds, minutes, and hours to measure time but there is a difference in how people in the United States and people in Canada measure distance. In fact, most of the world uses the kilometer to measure distance, whereas in the United States people use the mile. Converting from miles to kilometers, or kilometers to miles is one example of a conversion between the US and Metric systems. And these conversions work just like any other, except oftentimes the numbers aren't quite as pretty. For example, one mile is equal to about 1.609 km. So using this information, you should be able to answer a question like, if you run 5 km, how many miles do you run? And you answer in this box. Well I'm going to start by writing down 5 kilometers, and then I know I need to convert, so I'm going to get ready for my conversion factor. And I want kilometers on the bottom, so I can simplify with this. So I multiply by 1 mile divided by 1.609 kilometers and kilometers cancel. And carrying out this multiplication, I find I've run a distance of about 3.1 miles. So if you've ever run a 5K, as people call it, you've run 3.1 miles. So, in the previous example we went from kilometers to miles. And it wasn't too difficult since we knew the relationship between the two. Sometimes they'll be intermediate steps. So let's say you had a conversion chart with a whole bunch of unit conversions. For example, here we have relationships between miles and kilometers, and yards, and feet, and meters, centimeters, millimeters. And then, what the heck? I started talking about volume and gave some conversion factors between gallons, cups, and liters. Now, let's say you want to convert a distance that you knew in centimeters to a distance in feet. Just a few things you could do. One option is, you could start with centimeters, convert to meters, then convert from meters to yards, and then go from yards to feet. Or maybe you want to go from centimeters to meters and then from meters to kilometers. Then maybe from kilometers to miles, miles to yards, and yards to feet. In general, there's a lot of ways you can perform your unit conversions. In this case I'd prefer option one because it involves fewer steps, but option two isn't wrong. Let's practice this with a problem. Let's say you're having a party again and you want to serve 26 guests. And you think that each of them are going to drink 5 cups of juice, but the juice you're buying sold by the liter. How many liters of juice should you buy? Enter your answer in this box. Well, let's see. The first thing I want to figure out is how many cups of juice my guests are going to drink. And since I have 26 guests and they're each going to drink 5 cups, they're going to drink 26 x 5 cups of juice. And that's equal to 130 cups. But I want to know how many liters to buy. So first I'm going to convert to gallons so that I can then convert from gallons to liters. So, I'm going to multiply by 1 gal divided by 16 cups, which lets me simplify cups. And then multiply by my gallon to liter conversion of 3.785 liters per gallon. Gallon simplifies, and I'm left with liters. When I carry out this multiplication, I find that I need 30.75 liters, which would actually mean I should buy 31 one-liter bottles. So if you put 31 that was okay, too. In this section we're going to talk about converting from decimals to percents and back. Now I want to start by saying this is going to be very brief section. The assumption is that you've seen this before and this is just a reminder. So if this is insufficient, there's plenty of other resources online that can help you learn how to convert between decimals and percents. And you can find them linked in the instructor notes section below this video. So let's start with a candy bar. That's one whole candy bar. This is half of a candy bar. So if you have half a candy bar, what percent of the original candy bar do you have left? And you answer in this box, and you don't need to include the percent sign. I'll include it for you. Don't worry if you don't know how to do this quite yet. We're going to review this in the next video. This is just to get you thinking. And the answer is 50%. And what I actually had to do here was convert this fraction to a decimal, which is 0.5 and then convert this decimal to a percent. So we went from one-half to 0.5, just by doing normal division. 1 divided by 2. Well, let's see, two doesn't go into one at all. Zero times two is zero. Two goes into ten five times. Dont forget the decimal. Right. 1 divided by 2 is 0.5. Now, how do we get from 0.5 to 50%? Well, let's see. The reason why 0.5 equals 50% is because percent means per 100. In fact, cent is a prefix meaning 100, centuries, 100 years. The word cent is one hundred in French. So percent really means out of 100, percent. So what this statement really says, is that 0.5 equals 50 out of 100. That's what this symbol means, out of 100. So what this means is that if you can write a number as something over 100, then that something is your percent, just like 50 out of 100 is 50%. Now a trick is that to convert from decimals to percents, we just move the decimal point two places to the right. So in the case of 0.5, we move this decimal place one, two, and actually we have to put a zero there, so now instead the decimal being here, it's over here. It's 50%. And there's a little decimal place we can think of being there. Can you practice this by converting the following numbers from decimals to percent? For each of these four numbers, write the corresponding percentage over here. Well let's see. 0.67 if I move the decimal place two to the right, it's 67.0 I could say, which is 67%. 0.9 becomes 90%. 1.23 becomes 123%. And 0.005 becomes, well it looks like 0.5%. If you've got all these, good work, and if not, keep practicing. We saw we can go from decimals to percents, now let's go the other way around. This is exactly the opposite of the procedure we used before. Instead of moving the decimal place two to the right, we'll move our decimal place two to the left. Let's try this out with the quiz. In the U.S. Senate a 60% supermajority is required to stop a filibuster. A filibuster is basically just somebody talking a lot. What is 60% in decimal form? Enter your answer here. Let's see. Sixty percent. I'm going to write 60.0 just make it a little easier for me. Them I'm going to move the decimal place two to the left. So now it's point six. I always like to include a zero before, so I'm going to call it 0.6. And you may have included a zero here as well. It actually doesn't matter. Now let's try something a little more tricky but a lot more useful. Let's say that sales tax is 6.75%. And you spend $40 at the store. How much will you have to pay for sales tax? And for this question I recommend you try something. And then see if your answer is reasonable. If you get an answer of $240, that probably doesn't make a lot of sense. That's too much sales tax. So just keep that in mind as you're entering your answer. And you can enter your answer here in dollars. You don't need to include the dollar sign. I'll put it there for you. So to calculate how much sales tax you pay on this $40, we have to first convert this to a decimal. And by moving the decimal place to the left we find that it's 0.0675. To calculate how much we pay in dollars, we have to multiply this by $40. And that gives me 40 times 0.0675 and we need to use a calculator for this, 2.7 or $2.70. Let's do one more practice question involving a discount. So let's say the earrings are 30% off at your favorite store. Anyways, they're on sale 30% off, and you buy a pair that normally costs $25. How much will you pay after the discount? And be careful here, I'm not asking what the discount is. I'm asking how much do you pay after the discount? And you can enter your answer in this box. And I've given you the dollar sign. First let's calculate what the discount is. Let's convert 30% to a decimal. And I'm going to multiply that by my $25 and that gives me $7.5 or $7.50. That's just how much the discount is. So I save 7.50 which means I'm paying 25.00- 7.50. So, it looks like I'm only going to have to pay 17.50 for these earings. If you got that right, good work. And if not, go back through and go through the steps of the solution. There is a lot going on here. Welcome to topic four. Topic four is all about expressions and equations. The difference between expressions and equations comes down to a simple equal sign, but that equal sign is pretty powerful. Equations help us understand natural phenomena using numbers. Let's get started. What do you think a variable is anyway? Take a guess and pick one of these. A variable is a symbol or letter that can be used to represent an unknown value. This is an important vocabulary word that should go in your notebook. In the algebra cafe example, c, t, and j were variables that we used to represent the prices of coffee, tea, and juice. So if I ask you to calculate the cost of four coffees and two teas, how can we represent that with variables? Select all that apply. We can represent the cost of four coffees and two teas as c + c + c + c + t + t. We can also represent it as 4c + 2t, which is the same thing as 4 times c + 2 times t. This is the shortest way to represent the cost of 4 coffees and 2 teas, and usually the shortest way to express something is better. If you replace c with the cost of coffee and you replace t with the cost of tea, what does 4c + 2t equal? Don't worry about including a dollar sign in your answer. I've already done it for you. [BLANK_AUDIO] 4c + 2t = $15.00. When we replaced c with the cost of Coffee, we get 4(2.00). And when we replace t with the cost of Tea, we get 2(3.50). This is the same thing as 8 + 7 = 15. What is 3x + 2. Please select one. We cannot determine the value of 3x + 2. That's because we don't have a value to substitute in for x. 3x+2 is an algebraic expression. An algebraic expression has terms that include numbers and variables that are connected by addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. In 3x+2, 3x is a term, and 2 is a term. They're separated by the operation of addition. Remember that a variable is a letter or symbol that we use in an equation or expression to represent an unknown value. X is a very common letter to use for a variable, but you could use any letter in the alphabet. In the algebraic expression 3x+2, we have not been given a value that we can substitute in for x, so x can be anything. For now, let's say that x=4. If x=4, what is the value of 3x+2? Please pick one. 3x + 2 is 14. If we substitute 4 in for x, we get 3(4) + 2. That's the same thing as 12 + 2 = 14. If you have an algebraic expression like three X plus two and you are given a value for X. You can replace X with the value you are given everywhere that you see X. After you substitute in the number follow the order of operations to evaluate the expression. Evaluate means to find a value for an expression by substituting a value n for your variable. Try evaluating 3x+2 using these values of x, enter your answers in the boxes. When x=1, 3x+2=5. When we substitute 1 in for x, we get 3(1)+2, which equals 3+2, which equals 5. When x=5, 3x+2=17. When we substitute 5 in for x, we get 3(5)+2 ,which is 15+2, which is 17. When x=-2, we get -4. Substituting -2 in for x, we get 3(-2)+2, which equals -6+2. We get -4. Here's a slightly more challenging one. Evaluate 8x squared + 9, when x = -2. Remember to use the order of operations, and enter your answer in the box. When x = 2, 8x squared + 9 = 41. This is pretty tricky, especially if you're relying on a calculator. So it's really important that you write out every step. When we evaluate the expression, we replace x with -2, and the expression becomes 8 * (-2) squared, + 9. Remembering the order of operations, we should evaluate the exponent first. (-2) squared = -2 * -2, which is positive 4. Our new expression becomes 8 * (4) + 9. Next we multiply 8 * 4 which gives us 32. Our new expression becomes 32 + 9. 32 + 9 = 41 Evaluate 7 + 3 times x- 2 when x = 4. Enter your answer in the box. Again, be really careful about writing out every step and following the order of operations. When x = 4, 7 + 3(x- 2) is 13. When we plug 4 in instead of x, we are left with the expression 7 + 3 (4- 2). We should evaluate what's in the parentheses first, 4- 2 = 2. So our new expression becomes 7 + 3(2). Again, following the order of operations, we should multiply 3 by 2. 3 times 2 is 6. Finally, add 7 + 6 together to get 13. Evaluate these expressions for the given value of each variable. Enter your answer in the box. When a=4, -3a squared plus 1 equals -47. When q=10, 4q minus 2(q+1) equals 18. When z=-2, 9z plus z squared equals -14. These can get a little complicated. Remember to write everything out and take it one step at a time. Is 4x+5x-7 the same thing as 9x-7. Please pick one. Yes, they are equivalent. 9x-7 is the simplified version of 4x+5x-7. To simplify this algebraic expression we combined like terms. Like terms, which are sometimes also called common terms, are terms that have the same variables and those variables are raised to the same power. So in this equation, 4x and 5x are like terms. They combine to get 9x. Are these pairs of terms like terms? Select yes or no for each pair. [BLANK_AUDIO] 3 and 10 are like terms. Both of them are constants. They have no variables. Note that constants like 3 and 10 can be considered like terms. 6x and 6y are not like terms. The variables that they have are different. 5x cubed and 7x cubed are like pairs. They share the variable, x cubed. Note that x is raised to the 3rd power for both terms. 8ab and 9ab are also like terms. They both share both variables a and b. 7a squared b and 7ab squared are not like terms. Even though they both have both a and b, a and b are raised to different powers. Here, a is raised to the 2nd power and b is raised to the 1st power. Here, a is raised to the 1st power and b is raised to the 2nd power. So, they're not like terms. When you have an expression with like terms, you can combine the like terms. Let's use an example. If Nathalie buys seven pineapples for x dollars, we can express the cost of pineapples as 7x. Then Nathalie goes out and buys ten more pineapples and the cost of the ten new pineapples is 10x. We can then express the cost of all the pineapples as 7x + 10x. How else can we express the cost of the pineapples? Please pick one. We can express the total cost of the pineapples as 17x. That's because 7x + 10x = 17x. Some of the exercises in this course will require the use of a wonderful tool called Mathquill. Mathquill is an equation editor, which means that it allows us to type things that normal keyboards don't usually allow, like exponent. To type an exponent in Mathquill you use a caret. Let me show you on my keyboard. This is a caret, so to get this, I would hold down Shift and hit the 6, but your keyboard might be different. Still, most keyboards will have a caret on them. So to type x to the sixth, what you would need to type would be x caret six. After you type the caret, you'll see your cursor move up into the superscript area, and then you can proceed typing your exponent. To type something after the exponent you would hit the right arrow key. So that's what it looks like on my keyboard. So after you hit the right arrow key, the cursor will then return to the normal position, out of the superscript position, and you can continue typing. So for example, if you wanted to type x squared y, what you would hit would be x caret 2, right arrow key, y. Now you try entering these yourself, and here are a couple of other expressions for you to try and practice as well. Try using Mathquill to type out x cubed y squared plus 4z, as well as 7a squared b- c to the fifth, and enter your answers in the boxes. In order to type x cubed y squared +4z, what you would have to type on your keyboard would be x carrot 3 and then you would hit the right arrow to get out of the exponent superscript area. And then you would hit y, and then you would do a carrot to get back into the superscript and enter 2 for your exponent. Then you had the right arrow key again to get out of the exponent and then plus 4z. And to get 7a squared b- c to the fifth, you would type 7a carrot 2, right arrow key to get out of the superscript, and then you type b and then you type minus c caret 5. When we combine like terms, we combine the coefficients of the like terms but leave the variables alone. Coefficients are numbers used to multiply variables. For example in the expression five X minus two. Five is a coefficient. The two, which does not have a variable with it. is a constant. Constants are numbers that don't have variables attached to them. That is they aren't multipliers of variables. X is the only variable here. In calculating the cost of the pineapples. We saw that 7X+10X=7+10, all times X. When we add up what's in the parentheses, we get 17X. The Coefficients 7 and 10 were combined and the variable X stayed the same. You should be aware that if you are told to simplify an expression with like terms that means you should combine the like terms. Simplify 4x squared minus 2x squared and enter your answer in this box. 4x squared -2x squared = 2x squared. We combined the coefficients 4 and 2, and we left the variable alone. Simplify 3x cubed y+3xy cubed+9xy+7x cubed y+11xy, and enter your answer in the box. [BLANK_AUDIO] The answer is 10x cubed y + 3xy cubed + 20xy. This one was a bit trickier. Let's see how we combine the like terms. Well first we see that 3x cubed y and 7x cubed y are like terms. And 9xy and 11xy are like terms. Let's rearrange things so that our common terms are next to each other remembering that we can rearrange like this because addition is commutative. So after some rearranging we get 3x cubed y plus 7x cubed y plus 3xy cubed + 9xy + 11xy. Now we can combine the coefficients of the like terms, 3x cubed y + 7x cubed y becomes 10x cubed y, 3xy cubed did not have any other like terms to combine with so we just keep it how it is. And then we combine 9xy and 11xy to get 20xy. And this is our final answer. Simplify ab squared c + 3ab + 9abc squared + 4c + 10ab squared c and enter your answer in the box. The answer is 11ab squared c, plus 3ab, plus 9abc squared, plus 4c. We can simplify this the same way that we did in the previous example. Let's find all the like terms and combine them. Ab squared c and 10ab squared c are like terms. And it looks like there are no other like terms, so everything else can stay how it is, and we'll just rearrange these so the like terms are next to each other. So after a bit of rearranging, we get ab squared c, plus 10ab squared c, plus 3ab, plus 9abc squared, plus 4c. Now we can combine our like terms, which are ab squared c and 10ab squared c. Note that if there is no coefficient shown in front of a variable, the coefficient is implied to be 1. So ab squared c, actually equals one ab squared c. That means that when we combine 10ab squared c, with ab squared c, we're actually combining 10ab squared c, with one ab squared c. Which gives us 11ab squared c. We can't combine any coefficients for these other terms, so they just stay how they are. And our final answer is 11ab squared c, plus 3ab, plus 9abc squared, plus 4c. [BLANK_AUDIO] Simplify xy + 8x squared y + 7xy- x squared y, and enter your answer here. The answer is 8xy+7x squared y. Remember that when you don't see a coefficient, it is implied to be 1. So, let's find our like terms. 8x squared y and 1x squared y are like terms, and 7xy and 1xy are like terms. Now, we can rearrange this, so the like terms are next to each other, and we'll remember to keep the negative associated with this term. After some rearranging, we get 1xy+7xy+8x squared y-1x squared y. We'll combine our like terms. So, 1xy+7xy gives 8xy. And, 8x squared y-1x squared y gives 7x squared y. And that's our answer. Simplify x squared +3x-9-3x+5, and enter your answer here. This simplifies to x squared- 4. This one is kind of tricky because now we're subtracting some of the terms and adding some of the terms. Especially if you're going to be rearranging terms before combining them, it might be helpful to think of this kind of problem as adding positive and negative terms. So we can rewrite the expression as x squared + 3x + negative 9 + negative 3x + 5. Now this will be a little easier to rearrange. We can see that 3x and negative 3x are like terms, and they can be written next to each other. And negative 9 and 5 are also like terms. So they can be written next to each other too. And then x squared can just stay as it is because it doesn't have any other like terms. And what we're left with is 3x + negative 3x + negative 9 + 5 + x squared. Combining 3x and negative 3x, we get 0x. And then 0 times anything is 0. So really, that's just 0. And then combining negative 9 and 5, we get negative 4. Keep our addition sign, and then bring down the x squared because that doesn't have anything to combine with. We shouldn't include a 0, and so we should rewrite this as negative 4 + x squared. Or it can be written as X squared- 4 if we don't want a negative in front. Note that in a simplified expression we don't include zeros whether we're adding a zero, subtracting a zero or multiplying by zero. Simplify, six plus two times eight x minus seven. Enter your answer here. This simplifies to 16x minus 8. Don't forget the order of operations. We can't combine anything inside the parentheses right now. So the next thing we should do is multiply 2 by 8x. And then 2 by 7. That gives us 6 plus 2 times 8 X minus 2 times 7, which is the same thing as 6 plus 16 X minus 14. Because 2 times 8 X is 16, and 2 times 7 is 14. We still can't combine anything inside the parenthesis. So now we should add or subtract from left to right. So let's just write that without the parentheses. We have 6 plus 16x minus 14. 6 and 14 are like terms that we can combine to get -8. And 16x stays the same. So our final expression is 16x minus 8. Simplify 3-4(x+5). 3- 4 times the quantity of x + 5 gives -4x -17. Let's first rewrite this as 3 + (-4)(x + 5). Now we have to distribute this -4 to both terms inside the parentheses. And we get 3 + ((-4)x + (-4)5). This becomes 3 + (-4x + (-20)), which is the same thing as 3 + (-4x- 20). We can't combine terms, and there's nothing to distribute. So we can take away the parentheses to get 3- 4x- 20. We can combine our like terms of 20 and 3. Which gives us -17 and then -4x stays how it is, and that's our answer, -4x- 17. Simplify 5x- (7- 4x), enter your answer in the box. 5x- (7- 4x) simplifies to 9x- 7. This is a tricky one. In this problem it is very helpful to rewrite 5x- (7- 4x) as 5x + (-1)(7 + (-4x)). I know this looks a little messy but this will help us keep track of all the negative signs. So this (-1) needs to be distributed to both terms inside the parentheses. And what we get is 5x + ((-1)7 + (-1)(-4x)). Simplifying further and removing the outer parentheses because there's nothing left to distribute, we get 5x + (-7) + 4x. Remember a negative times a negative gives a positive. These are alike terms which we can combine to get 9x. Then, since 7 can't combine with anything else, we leave it how it is. And our answer is 9x- 7. Let's discuss linear equations. Calvin is a car salesman and his base pay each month is $1000. Each month he also receives a 15% commission on each car he sells. If Calvin sold cars with a total of $80,000 in the month of January, what is his pay for January? Enter your answer in this box. I've already included a dollar sign. Don't worry about including commas, either. In the month of January, Calvin made $13,000. Calvin's pay was 0.15(80,000) + his base pay of 1,000. We used 0.15 here, because 0.15 is how we write 15% as a decimal. If Calvin had $90,000 in sales in February, did he make more money that month than in January? Please pick one. Yes, he made more money in February. He had more money and sales in February than he did in January. His base pay stayed the same. There is an equation that tells us how much money Calvin makes every month. It is total pay equals 0.15 times his total sales plus his base pay, which is $1000. This is a linear equation. Let's use desmos.com, which is an online graphing calculator. If this is Calvin's take home pay and this is his money in sales, we can see that as total sales increase, his take home pay increases. If sales decrease, so does his take home pay. Given X + 3 = 4, what do you think the value of X is? Enter your answer here. X = 1. We just have to think of a number that we can add to 3 that will give us 4 and that's 1. [BLANK_AUDIO] This equation is a linear equation. Linear equations have the following properties. Linear equations must have an equal sign. So here we have an equal sign. Linear equations must have an expression on both sides of the equal sign. And we see here that we have expressions on both sides of the equal sign. And no variables will have an exponent greater than 1. And x here doesn't have an exponent greater than 1. Previously, we talked about algebraic expressions. Algebraic expressions do not have an equal sign. You could only find a value for an algebraic expression if you were given values to substitute in for the variables. This is called evaluating an expression. Notice that value is in the word evaluating. This is different from an equation, which has an equal sign. When you see an equal sign, you know you can solve the linear equation to find the value for the variable. Please indicate if each of these is an expression or an equation. This is an expression, it does not have an equal sign. This is an equation because it does have an equal sign. This is an expression and this is an equation. Remember equations have equal signs and expressions do not. It is important to remember the difference between expressions and equations. Only equations can be solved. In other words, to find a value for a variable you must have an equal sign. [BLANK_AUDIO] Given x- 4 = 7, what is the value of x? Enter your answer here. x = 11. [BLANK_AUDIO] How did we find the value for x in x -4 = 7? When solving an equation, the goal is to get the variable on one side of the equation alone with a coefficient of one. You are not done until your equation is in this form. With the equation of x- 4 = 7, we can do this by adding four to both sides of the equation and then we get x + 0 because -4 + 4 = 0 = 7+4. So why did we add four to both sides of the equation? Why can't we just add it to one side? That's because an equation is perfectly balanced. We could think of equations as scales that have to have the same value on both sides. If you perform an operation on one side but not the other side of the equation, the equation will be out of balance and therefore it is no longer true. So if I add four to one side of my equation but not the other side, my equation is no longer in balance. I have to do the same thing to the other side to rebalance the equation. So, how did I decide on four to add? It's because I'm trying to get X by itself and -4+4 = 0. We can check our work here by substituting 11 in for X in the original equation. x-4=7 becomes 11-4=7. 11-4 is indeed equal to 7 so we did it right. Let's try another one. Find x if x+12=16. Enter your answer here. x = 4. This time we had to subtract 12 from both sides to get x on its own. And then we get x + 0 = 16- 12. x + 0 is the same thing as x, which equals 16 minus 12 which equals 4. So x equals 4. Notice that to isolate the variable terms in these equations we either added or subtracted. So here we added and here we subtracted. We subtracted if in the original equation we were adding the constant. And we added when we were originally subtracting. We're basically trying to undo what's done on the same side as x. If Amir buys four pencils and all four pencils cost eight dollars, how much does each pencil cost? So, if four times P equals eight, what is the value of P? Enter your answer here. I have already included the dollar sign. p = 2, pencils are $2 each. In this equation, the term with the variable is alone on one side of the equation, but the coefficient is not 1. The coefficient is 4. To make the coefficient 1, we can divide both sides of the equation by 4. 4p/4 is just p. 8/4 is 2. So p = 2. Remember that in 4p/4, we can just cross out these 4's because any number over itself is equal to 1. Matt has some number of chickens, we'll call that number x. And he divided his chickens equally into three coops. Each coop has five chickens. How many chickens did Matt start out with? Enter your answer here. Matt started out with 15 chickens. The first thing we should do to solve this problem is to set up our equation. So if Matt started with x chickens and he divided them into 3 coops, he got 5 chickens per coop. x divided by 3 = 5. Now we need to undo this dividing by 3 to get x on its own. So the opposite of dividing is multiplying, so let's multiply both sides of the equation by 3. 3x over 3 = 5 times 3, which is 15. We can cross out these 3s and we're left with x = 15. Given 4x plus 1 equals 17, solve for x. x = 4. This equation takes more steps to solve for x, but our goal is still the same. We still want the variable on one side of the equation with a coefficient of 1. The steps to solve for x are first, add or subtract to get the variable term alone. So that means subtracting 1 from both sides, which leaves us with 4x + 0 = 17- 1, or just 4x = 16. The next step is to multiply or divide so that the coefficient on the variable is 1. So that means we'd need to divide both sides by something to get x alone. And so we should divide by 4. We can cross out the 4s and we're left with x = 16/4 = 4. Given that one-third x- one-sixth = one-half, solve for x. x =2. Now we're adding another step to our process of solving equations. Just a note I've written that steps to solve for x but this applies for any variable. So it can be x or it can be a or b or c or anything you want. So the step that we need to add is actually something that we should do before these other two steps, so we'll just move that down. So now the first step that we need to do before these other two steps is we need to clear fractions by multiplying both sides of the equation by a common denominator. Three, six and two all go into six. So six is the least common denominator we should use. We will multiply both sides by six. Distributing six within the parentheses we get six thirds x minus six over six equals six over two. We'll simplify this a bit. Six thirds is two so 2x. And six over six is one so 2x- 1 = 6/2, that's 3. Now we can get to our next step which is to add or subtract to get the variable term alone. So we need to add one to both sides and we get 2x + 0 = 3 + 1. That's really 2x = 4. And now we can multiply or divide so the coefficient on the variables is one. We'll divide both sides by two. We cross out the two and we get x = 4 / 2. 4 / 2 is just 2. So x = 2. Given that 7 + 3 times the quantity x- 1 = 5, find x. X equals 1/3. We need another step in order to be able to solve this, and I'll just added over here. If necessary, because of parentheses, distribute anything that's multiplied to the terms inside the parentheses. And next you should combine like terms. So, let's use this complete process to solve for X here. There are no fractions to clear, so we can skip this first step; but the next step we have to do, we have to distribute the 3 to the terms inside the parentheses. So, 3 needs to be multiplied by X and by 1. And when we do that, we got 7 plus 3 times x minus 3 times 1 equals 5. And we're left with 7 + 3x- 3 = 5. Let's combine like terms. 7 and 3 are like terms. 7- 3 = 4. So, 4 + 3x = 5. Now, we can add or subtract to get the variable term alone. We want to subtract 4 from both sides and we get 0 + 3x = 5- 4. So, 3x = 1. Now we multiply or divide, so the coefficient on the variable is 1. So, we divide by 3 on both sides. And x = 1/3. Given twenty four X minus 2 times the quantity X plus 3 minus 26 equals 12. Find X. This one's a little complicated. Make sure you follow the steps to solve for x which, by the way, you should probably have written in your notebook. This might take you a couple of tries, don't worry about it. Practice is important. When you're ready to go, enter your answer here. [BLANK_AUDIO] X equals 2. Like I mentioned before this one is complicated and I wouldn't be surprised if it took you several tries to get it but this is a great problem to practice on. All right, let's start by writing this as 24 x plus -2 times (x+3)026=12. That will help us keep track of this negative sign when we distribute the 2 to the x and to the 3. All right, after distributing and simplifying just a bit, we get 24x+(-2x+-6)-26=12. I'm going to remove the parenthesis and combine like terms, so to combine like terms I've written the like terms next to each other, and 24 x minus 2x becomes 22x, and -6 minus 26 becomes -32, so, 22x-32 =12. Now let's get rid of this 32 by adding 32 to both sides. And we get 22x + 0 = 12 + 32. And then we get 22x = 44. We'll divide both sides by 22. And x equals 44 over 22 which equals 2. Given, 12x-3(5x+1)=-3x-3, what will happen if I ask you to solve for x? This one's actually even trickier than it looks, so here are all the steps to solve it. I first rewrote the equation as 12x+(-3)(5x+1)=-3x- 3. To make the negative sign easier to distribute, I distributed the -3 to the terms inside the parentheses. I simplified a bit, and rewrote the equation as 12x-15x-3=-3x-3. I combine like terms, and things are starting to look a little funny here. -3x-3=-3x-3. Okay, well let's keep going. I added 3 to both sides and got -3x+0=-3x+0. All right, stranger still. And then, I'm left with -3x=-3x, then I divided by -3 on both sides and I just get x=x. So what does that mean? In algebra, we call this type of an equation, an identity equation, x equals itself, that's its identity, so that means I could put an any value for x, and it won't change what this equation means. Here, I could have divided by x instead of -3 and I would have gotten -3=-3, again, that's an identity, -3 is -3. The important thing to remember here is that the solution is stated, all real numbers. Which means that, it doesn't matter what value you substitute in for x, the equation will remain true. Now, if I asked you to solve for x, given, 5(x+10)-30=5x-18, we would find something else kind of interesting. Distributing the 5 to the x and the 10, we get 5x+50-30=5x -18. Let's combine like terms and we get 5x+20=5x-18. And again, things are looking a little funny here. We have a 5x on both sides. If I were to subtract 5x from both sides, I would get 0+20=0-18. 20=-18, so of course, 20 does not equal -18, that means that this equation is false, and in algebra, we call this a contradiction. And again, the important thing to remember is that, if you try to solve an equation for x and end up with a false statement like this, the solution is actually no solution. That means, it doesn't matter what value you substitute for x, the equation will always end up being false. Okay this one's a little different too. Given four Y plus two X equals 32 solve for Y. y = negative one-half x + 8. When an equation has more than one variable, you can solve that equation for one of the variables. Remember that a variable represents a number. So you can do the same operations on variable terms, so add, subtract, multiply and divide, that you can do to numbers. Let's look at the steps to solve for y. And remember that when solving for a variable, we're trying to get that variable alone on one side of the equation with a coefficient of 1. I'm going to subtract 2x to move the 2x to the other side of the equation. And I get 4y + 0 = 32- 2x. Or just 4y = 32- 2x. I want the coefficient in front of the y to be 1. So let's divide it by 4 and then we get y = 32- 2x all over 4. We can simplify this, 32 / 4 is 8, and 2x / 4 is one-half x. By convention, terms with variables will go before constants. So this is actually negative one-half x + 8, but both are correct. What number is less than 3? Enter your answer here. Then tell me is there more than one number that is less than 3? Select yes or no. There are a lot of different numbers that you could have entered here. 2 is a good one, but you also could have entered something like 1 or 0 or -1 or 2.5 or 2.9. So that tells us that yes, there is more than one number that is less than 3. In fact, there are infinitely many numbers that are less than 3. Is 5 less than 3? What about 3? Is 3 less than 3? Check yes or no. Neither five nor three is less than three. We can express these as algebraic inequalities. An algebraic inequality looks like an algebraic equation but it will have an inequality sign instead of an equal sign. These are the four inequality signs. This inequality sign means less than. This one means less than or equal to. This one means greater than. This one means greater than or equal to. So for example, if I were to write x is less then 3, that's what it would look like. And in words, it's x is less than 3. If I write this, it means that x is less than or equal to 3. If I write this it means that x is greater than 3. And if I write this it means that x is greater than or equal to 3. Instead of having just one solution like an equation. The solution of an inequality is a range of numbers. Sometimes, an infinitely large range make sure you have these written down in your notebook. Now let's focus on x is less than 3 which means x is any number that is less than 3. Since there are infinitely many values for x. You will need to represent the solution set for this inequality on a number line. We will begin by putting an open circle on 3. We are using an open circle to indicate that 3 is an end point, but not part of the solution set for the inequality. It's not part of the solution set because 3 is not less than 3. It's equal to 3. The next step is to draw an arrow over the part of the number line that contains the numbers that satisfy this inequality. So that means we draw the arrow to the left. [BLANK_AUDIO] This inequality says 4 is less than 3. Is that true or false? [BLANK_AUDIO] This is false. 4 is not less than 3, 4 is greater than 3. And what about 2? This statement says 2 is less than 3. Is that true or false? Please pick one. This is true, 2 < 3. On our number line, the solution set for x < 3 covers 2. 2 is part of the solution set. So when we plug 2 in for x in x < 3, we get a true statement. That should be true for any number in the solution set. Now let's graph the solutions that for x is less than or equal to 2. Our endpoint is 2. Do you think that the endpoint is part of the solution set? The endpoint is indeed part of the solution set. Since the end point, 2, is part of the solutions set, this time we will use a solid dot or circle on the number line at 2. Whenever you have a less than or equal to sign or a greater than or equal to sign, you will use a solid dot on the number line to indicate that that number, the end point, is part of the solution set. If you have a regular less than or greater than sign you'll use an open dot. Because that endpoint is not part of the solution set. So we've established our endpoint. Now which way should the arrow point? For x is less than or equal to 2, should the arrow point right or left? Let's look at the graphs of x is less than 3 and x is less than or equal to 2 together. Is 2.5 part of the solution set for x is less than 3 and x is less than or equal to 2? Select Yes or No. No, 2.5 is not part of the solution set for both of these. 2.5 falls right here, which is in the solutions set for x is less than 3, but it's not on the solution set for x is less than or equal to 2. So plugging 2.5 in for x and x is less than 3 is only true here, it is not true here. Given that x + 2 > 5, what are the possible values for x? Select all that apply. Given that x+2 is greater than 5, x must be greater than 3. You use the same procedure to solve a linear inequality for x that you do for a linear equation, with one exception that we will show. So for the inequality x+2 > 5, we just treat the inequality like an equal sign. Just like we saw with linear equations, we're trying to isolate x. Here we can do that by subtracting 2 from both sides. And we get x+0 > 5-2, which we simplify to x > 3. When you're done isolating the variable on one side, you should graph the solution set on a number line since it's a range of values. Our number line should look like this. The end point is 3. Our circle is open because 3 is not part of the solution set. And our arrow points to the right, towards positive infinity. Give -4x < 16, what are the possible values for x? Enter your solution set here. I've all ready written x for you. In this box < or >, these are keys on your keyboard. The less than is what you get when you hit Chift+Comma and the greater than is what you get when you hit Shift+Period. And then enter the number that x is greater than or less than in this box and let me just show you really quickly on my keyboard. To get the less than symbol I would hit Shift and then this key, and to get the greater than symbol again I would hit Shift and then this key. x is greater than -4. Don't worry if you struggled a bit with this one, let me show you how we did it. So to solve this, we started with -4x is less than 16. Just like with a regular linear equation, we're trying to isolate x. And we should do this by dividing by -4, both sides. And when we do that, we're left with x is less than -4. Because 16 divided by -4 is -4. But this actually isn't quite right. Let's think about it. To check our work, we should think of a number that is actually less than -4. So for example, -5, which is less than -4. If I plug that back into -4x is less than 16, I get -4 times -5 is less than 16. -4 times -5 is +20. Remember, negative times a negative is positive. And so then we get 20 is less than 16, but that's not a true statement. 20 is actually greater than 16, not less than 16. Any time you multiply or divide both sides of an equality by a negative number, you have to flip the inequality sign. Write this down, it's important. That's why the solution here is actually x is greater than -4. Find the solution set for x. I've already entered x for you. Then pick one of these inequality signs and enter the number that x is greater than or equal to or less than or equal to, in this box. And remember, whenever you multiply or divide both sides of an inequality by a negative number, you flip the inequality sign. x is greater than or equal to 1. Let's start out by solving this the same way we would a linear equation. So, we'll distribute the 7 to the x and then to the 1 to get 7x + -7, is greater than or equal to 5. We simplify to get 12x- 7 is greater than or equal to 5. Add the 7 to both sides and we get 12x is greater than or equal to 12. We divide by 12 and we get x is greater than or equal to 1. We didn't divide by a negative number, so we don't put the equality sign, it stays the same. Our solution set would look like this on a number line, our circle is closed because one is part of the solution set and our arrow goes to the right. Once again, find the solution set for x. And I've written x for you. Pick less than or equal to or greater than or equal to and then write your number in the box. x is greater than or equal to -1. So let's solve this the way we would with an equation. Distributing the -4 to the 3x and the -1, we get 3- 12x + 4, remember, negative times a negative is positive, is less then or equal to 19. We'll simplify a bit and we get -12x + 7 because 3 and 4 is 7, is less than 19. We'll subtract the 7 from both sides, and we get -12x is less than or equal to, 19- 7 is 12. Let's divide both sides by -12. So we have x on one side and we divide by a negative number, so we should flip the sign, x is greater than or equal to, 12 divided by -12 is -1, and there we have it. 12 is greater than or equal to -1. And this is what our solution set looks like on a number line. If x plus 1 is greater than or equal to 9, or negative 2x is greater than 10, how would you go about finding the solution set for x? This is called a compound inequality. A compound inequality consists of two inequalities connected by either the word or, or the word and. If the word or is used, that means that any value of the variable that makes either inequality true is in the solution set. So getting back to this problem x + 1 is greater than or equal to 9 simplifies to x is greater than or equal to 8. And this simplifies to x is less than 5. And because this is an or compound inequality, any value of the variable that makes x is greater than or equal to 8 or x is less than 5 true is in the solution set. x is greater than or equal to 8 will look like this, with a closed circle at 8 and the line extending to infinity, positive infinity on the right. And with an open circle over the 5 and the arrow pointing towards negative infinity. So both x is less than 5 and x is greater than or equal to 8 are part of the solution set. Given 5x + 4 is < 14 and 3x- 2 x the quantity x + 1 is greater than or equal to -5 find the solution set for x.. This is another compound inequality. This time the inequalities are joined by "And". When a compound inequality has an and that means the solution set only contains numbers that satisfy both inequalities. There are more requirements of the solution set. So, this is the less inclusive of the two kinds of compound inequalities or is the more inclusive. So skipping a few steps this simplifies 2x is less than 2. And this one simplifies to x is > or equal to -3. Since these are joined by an "And" statement we need to find the set of numbers that is true for both x is < 2 and x is greater than or equal to -3. On our number line, we can show x is less than two like this x is greater than negative three will look like this the solution set here is everywhere that the two graphs overlap, so here to here. The part of the number line that I just circled Is everywhere where x is less than 2 and x is greater than or equal to -3. This solution set can also be written like this which reads -3 is less than or equal to x, which is less than 2. Make sure all of this is in your notebook. Given this compound inequality, find the solution set for x. I've already written x here, and two less than symbols. What you need to do is fill in numbers in both of these boxes to show what number is less than x and what number is greater than x that fulfills this compound inequality. -2 < x < -1. So, x is between -2 and -1. This is an and inequality written without the word. When solving this type of compound inequality, you must add, subtract, multiply, or divide to all three parts of the compound inequality. The easiest way to do this is to break it up into two parts. Let's do this part first. So here we have the regular inequality 5 < 2x + 3 times the quantity x + 5. We'll solve this the way we normally do with it, just a regular linear equation. So the 3 gets distributed to the x and to the 5 and we get 5 < 2x + 3x + 15. To simplify it, we get 5 < 5X + 15, subtract 15 from both sides and we get -10 < 5X. To isolate x, we should get rid of the 5 so divided by 5 on both sides. And we're left with -2 < x. All right, so we have one half of the inequality. Next, we should just take a look at the right side. So we have 2x + 3(x + 5) < 10. Again we distribute the 3 to the x and to the 5, and we get the same thing. 2x + 3x + 15 < 10. Simplify a bit to get 5x + 15 < 10, subtract 15 from both sides. And we get 5x is less than -5. We divide by 5 on both sides, and we're left with x < -1. So -2 < x, and x < -1. So x is between -2 and -1. So let's draw this on our number line. And -2 is less than x is another way to say x > -2. So on the number line our arrow will point towards positive infinity. And for x < -1, find -1 here and our line should point towards negative infinity. This is where the two lines overlap. This is our solution set and it's true x really is between -2 and -1. Some questions in the practice section and then later on in the topic assessment will require Mathquill, our equation editor. Mathquill can be used to type the less than or equal to sign and the greater than or equal to sign. Your keeper probably has regular less than and greater than signs, but not less than or equal to or greater than or equal to signs. To type these signs using Mathquill type a backslash and then le for less than or equal to, and then a space, or backslash ge for greater than or equal to, followed by a space. Backslash is not the same thing as a forward slash. This is your backslash key. This is your forward slash key. This is the one that you want to hit. So to type a less than or equal to sign you would hit backslash, L, E, space. Try it. Try also writing these inequalities. Don't forget to hit the space bar at the end. To type x is less than or equal to 5 using Mathquill, you would type x\le followed by the space bar followed by a 5. For x is greater than or equal to 5, you would type x\ge followed by the space bar, followed by 5. Don't forget, the backslash is not the same as the forward slash, and you need to use a space bar at the end. Let's talk about algebraic proportions and similar triangles. You've started a diet that claims you can lose 10 pounds in 7 days. How long will it take to lose 25 pounds? Enter your answer in the box. It will take you 17.5 days to lose 25 pounds. [BLANK_AUDIO] This problem can be solved by setting up an algebraic proportion. The diet claims that you can lose ten pounds in seven days. This can be expressed as a rate like this, ten pounds over seven days. You can also write a rate for the amount of weight that you want to lose, even though we don't have the number of days yet. We'll use 25 as the numerator and set the number of days equal to X. So we have two rates here, we can use a proportion to solve this problem now. An algebraic proportion has two rates or ratios in fraction forms that equal to each other. So I have moved things around a little bit and set these two rates equal to each other. So for this problem, ten over seven is equal to 25 over x. Notice that I have placed the pounds in the numerator of both rates and the days in the denominator for both rates. It is important when setting up a proportion that you place the same units in the numerator and the denominator. So to solve a proportion like this one, you can use a method called cross multiplying. This is a really useful shortcut to isolate x. To cross multiply, you multiply the denominator of one rate by the numerator of the other rate and vice versa. And you set those two products equal to one another. So on one side of my equation, I'll have 7 days, and I'd multiply that by 25 pounds. And I set that equal to 10 pounds times x days. 7 times 25 is 175. And that is equal to 10 times x. If I divide both sides by 10, I am left with x = 175 / 10. So x = 17.5. Taylor and Grant can paint at a rate of two rooms in three hours. How many rooms can they paint in seven hours? Enter your answer here. Enter your answer as an improper fraction. Remember, that's a fraction where the numerator is bigger than the denominator. The answer is 14/3 which is the same thing as 4 1/3 rooms. To solve this, I first found a rate, which is the rate that Taylor and Grant can paint a room, which is 2 rooms in 3 hours. And I set that equivalent to another rate, which is x rooms in 7 hours. X because we don't know how many rooms they can paint in 7 hours. Again, notice that the numerators have the same units, they're both the number of rooms. And the denominators have the same units as well, they both are number of hours. Next we cross multiply, so I'll multiply 2 rooms by 7 hours, and I'll set that equivalent to 3 hours times x rooms 2 times 7 is 14 and that's equivalent to 3 time x. Divide both sides by 3 cross out the 3 in the numerator and the denominator here and we're left with x equals 14/3. [BLANK_AUDIO] Kavita has a fern that grows two inches every 15 days. She wants to know how long it will take for her fern to grow 20 inches. What's the correct way to set up this proportion? Well, we know that her fern grows two inches every 15 days. We have to set that equal to another proportion. So set up the proportion and use x to represent the number of days that it will take for Kavita's fern to grow 20 inches. So in one box you will put an x and in another box, you'll put a number. The proportion we should use here is 20 over x. Remember, we want to keep the units consistent. So here, inches is in the numerator which means we want inches to be in the numerator in this one as well. And in the original proportion, days is in the denominator and so x should be days as well in the denominator. All right, so how many days will it take for Kavita's fern to grow 20 inches? Enter your answer here. It will take 150 days for Kavita's fern to grow 20 inches. Using our algebraic proportion, we can cross multiply. So 15 times 20 is equal to 300. 2 times x is just 2x, and we set both of these equivalent to each other, and we get 300 is equal to 2x. Divide both sides by 2 to isolate x, and we are left with x equals 300 divided by 2, which equals 150 Blanca can write 96 lines of code in 3 hours. How many lines of code can she write in 8 hours? Enter your answer here. Blanca can write 256 lines of code in 8 hours. To solve this, we should set up a proportion. So 96 lines of code in 3 hours. We set that equal to x / 8. It actually wouldn't have mattered if we had written this as 3 / 96 is equivalent to 8 / x. The important thing is that we're consistent. If lines of code is in the denominator in one of the proportions, then it should also be in the denominator of the other proportion. And then the hours should be the same for both as well. But getting back to our original proportion, let's cross multiply. We can multiply 96 by 8, and set that equal to three times x. 96 times 8 is 768, which equals 3x. Let's divide both sides by three to isolate x, and then we're left with x = 256. Anjali earns $650 in 5 days. How long will it take for her to earn $7150? Enter your answer in the box. It will take Anjali 55 days. So our algebraic proportion is 650 over 5 is equivalent to 7,150 over x. After cross multiplying we get 650 times x = 5 times 7,150. 5 times 7,150 is 35,750. Divide both sides by 650 to isolate x. And 35,750 divided by 650 is equal to 55. So x = 55. All right, let's talk about similar triangles. Both of these triangles have the exact same angles inside. They're both right triangles, which means that one of their angles is equal to 90 degrees. And then this top angle in triangle B is equivalent to this top angle in triangle A. And this bottom angle on the right in Triangle B Is equivalent to this bottom right angle on triangle A. The difference is that the sides of this triangle are twice as big as the sides of this triangle. These two triangles are called similar triangles. That means that the angles inside each triangle have the same measure and their sides are in proportion to each other. I can set up a proportion where I put the side of triangle A in the numerator and the corresponding side of triangle B in the denominator. So I'm comparing 2 to 4 and I can set that equivalent to A proportion of the other legs of the triangles. But this says is that the ratios of the corresponding legs of the similar triangles should be equivalent. So the ratio of 2 to 4 is the same thing as the ratio of 3 to 6. 2/4 = 1/2. And 3 over 6 also equals 1/2 and so we see they are equivalent to each other. Here are two similar triangles. What is the length of this leg of the triangle? Enter your answer on the box. This side of the triangle is 27. We can solve this with the proportion 6 over 9 is equivalent to 18 over x. That means that the ratio of the legs of this triangle are equivalent to the ratio of the legs of this triangle. We also could have set this up as 6 over 18 is equal to 9 over x, either one would work. But back to this proportion, will just cross multiply and we get 6 times x equals 9 times 18. And we get 6x equals 9 times 18 which is 162 divide both sides by 6 to isolate x, and we get x is equivalent to 162 all over 6 which equals 27. So x = 27. A tree that is 20 feet tall casts a shadow that is 50 feet long. A child standing nearby casts a shadow that is 10 feet long. How tall is the child? Enter your answer here. The child is 4 feet tall. When we compare a tree it's shadow and a child standing nearby and the child shadow. Because these are similar triangles, that means that the ratio of the height of the tree to the length of the shadow will be proportional to the height of the child to the length of the child shadow. We can set the proportion up like this. The height of the tree over the length of the shadow of the tree is equivalent to the height of the child, which we'll set to x, over the length of the child shadow. When we cross multiply, we see that 20 x 10 = 50 x x, or 200 = 50x. Divide both sides by 50 to isolate x, and we get x is = 200/50 which is just 4. So the child is 4 feet tall. What is 4 squared equal to? Enter your answer in the box. [BLANK_AUDIO] 4 squared equals 16. When you raise something to the second power, that's called squaring the number and it's just multiplying that number by itself. So 4 squared is equal to 4 times 4 which is equal to 16. What number can you square to get 25? Enter your answer in the box. When you square 5 you get 25. 5 squared is 5 times 5, which is 25. That means that the square root of 25 is equal to 5. This square root sign, which is also called a radical sign, indicates that you are looking for the square root of the number that is under the radical sign. So you're looking for the number that you can multiply it by itself to get the number under the radical sign. What is the square root of 64? Enter your answer in the box. The square root of 64 is 8. 8 times 8 is 64. When the square root of a number is an integer, we call that number a perfect square. 8 is a perfect square, because it's the root of 64 and it's an integer. Find the squares of these numbers and enter your answers in the boxes. [BLANK_AUDIO] 1 squared is 1. 1 times 1 is 1. 2 squared is 4. 3 squared is 9. 4 squared is 16. 5 squared is 25. 6 squared is 36. 7 squared is 49. 8 squared is 64. 9 squared is 81. 10 quared is 100. 11 squared is 121. And 12 squared is 144. Find the square roots of these numbers. Enter your answers in the boxes. [BLANK_AUDIO] The square root of 81 is 9. The square root of 100 is 10. The square root of 144 is 12. The square root of 36 is 6. The square root of four is two and the square root of one is one. What is the measure of the corner angle of a right triangle? Enter your answer here. It should be in degrees and I'm including the degree symbol, so you don't have to have it in your answer. [BLANK_AUDIO] A right triangle is a triangle that has an angle equal to 90 degrees. A theorem is a statement in math that has been proven always correct. The Pythagorean Theorem states that in a right triangle a squared plus b squared equals c squared. Where a and b are the lengths of the legs of the right triangle. The legs are the two sides that make up the 90 degree angle. And c is the hypotenuse, the hypotenuse is the longest side of a right triangle. It's also always opposite the right angle. So given that a squared plus b squared equals c squared and c is the hypotenuse, what is the length of the hypotenuse when a is equal to three and b is equal to four? Enter your answer here. [BLANK_AUDIO] c is equal to 5. We know that a squared + b squared = c squared. And we know that a is 3 and b is 4, and now we just have to solve for c. 3 squared is 9, 4 squared is 16, and 9 and 16 together is equal to c squared. 9 + 16 is 25, which again is equal to c squared. If we want to find just c, not c squared, we have to find the square root of both sides of the equation. The square root of c squared is c, and the square root of 25 equals 5. So, c equals 5. What is the length of the hypotenuse of this triangle? Just a note, like all the other drawings, this is not to scale. And just as a reminder, a squared + b squared = c squared. Enter your answer in the box. The hypotenuse is 10. We can plug 6 and 8 in for a and b, and we're solving for c. 6 squared + 8 squared will give us a c squared. 6 squared is 36. 8 squared is 64. And we add those together to get 100, which equals c squared. Let's take the square root of both sides. And the square root of 100 is 10, so c is equal to 10. What is the length of the unknown side of this triangle? Is it eight? The square root of 53? Nine? Or cannot be determined? Please pick one. This cannot be determined. This triangle is not a right triangle. So we cannot use the Pythagorean theorem. In order for us to be able to use the Pythagorean Theorem, a triangle must have an angle that is 90 degrees. Math is about communication. It's about conveying ideas, like relationships between two different variables. For example, how much money I make and how many hours I work. Usually, there's a mathematical relationship there. And sometimes, we talk about that relationship with numbers when we use rates or we talk about it with equations. But sometimes we like to use pictures, and the pictures we use are called graphs. And in this lesson, we're going to talk about how to generate those graphs and how to convert between graphs and equations. So let's get started. In the last lesson, Rachel told you a bit about equations. Today, we're going to learn how to visualize those equations. How to make a picture from them using Graphing. When I was a kid, in order to make a little extra money. I would rake leaves. Usually, in my neighbor's backyards or something. And I charged $10 per hour. So to get us thinking mathematically. Maybe you can tell me, how much money would I make if I worked 5 hours or 10 hours? You can enter your answers here and here, and notice have already given you the dollar sign. Well, in five hours, at $10 per hour, I would make $50. And for 10 hours, I'd make $100. Now let's make things a little bit more, actually a lot more, interesting. How much would I make in x hours? Enter your answer here. Your answer should have an x in it, and don't worry if you don't get it right just yet. Well, let's look at the pattern. In five hours we made 5 times 10 which was 50, in 10 hours we made 10 times 10 which is 100. So, in x hours we'll make 10 times x, or 10x dollars, and just to make sure this makes sense, we can plug a 5 in for x and we'd get 10 times 5. Which is 50 or we can plug a ten and would get 100, so that makes sense. So, it turns out that the relationship between how much I would work and how much I would make can be described with what's called a linear equation or the equation of a line. In this example, we would use maybe y to represent the amount of money I'm going to make. And it turns out that this was equal to 10 times x, where x is the number of hours I would work. So even though these are just letters, x and y, they represent hours worked and money made. But this is getting a little cluttered. Let's use a chart to organize our thinking. And I'm going to organize my thinking with what's called a t-chart, which looks something like this. And remember my equation y = 10x, where y represents the money I make, and x represents the number of hours worked. Well, we've already seen that if I work 5 hours, I make $50. And if I work 10 hours, I make $100. And I could keep filling this chart out. The interesting thing to note though is that each row has two numbers in it and for the purposes of graphing I like to write these numbers as an ordered pair with the x value first and then they y value. Notice they're separated by a comma and they have parenthesis around them. So if 5, 50 is the ordered pair version of this information. How would you write this row of information as an ordered pair? I've given you the comma and you just have to enter in the two numbers. And that would be 10 and 100. All right, the x value first, and then the y value. What if X were 20? I want you to tell me first would what the Y value be? But then I want you to also write an ordered pair for me here. And this time I'm not going to give you the comma or the parentheses. You have do it all yourself. Good luck. Well, plugging 20 into my equation, 20 times 10 is 200. Which means the ordered pair would be 20, 200. So we have these three ordered pairs which represent how much time I've worked and how much money I make. I want to visualize these and the best way to do that is with a graph. And here is my graph paper. This line here is called the x axis and this one's the y axis. The first thing I'm going to do is decide on a scale. And I'm going to choose a scale in the x axis that goes up by fives, 5, 10, 15, 20, and of course zero here. I am going to have my y axis increment by 50 and note this point here has zero for its x value, n for its y value. This point we call the origin but back to our order pairs. Well how am I going to put 5,50 in the graph? Well I'm going to look at five which means, okay, go over here to where x is five, which is this line and then I'm going to go up to where y is 50, which is up to here. And then I'm going to put a dot. Likewise for 10,100. Go over to 10, up to 100 and put a dot, and again 20,200. Over to 20, up to 200 and put a dot. Once I have a few dots I can start to connect them. Now using this graph, maybe you can answer a question for me. How much would I make if I worked for 15 hours? Enter your answer here and I've already given you the dollar sign. Well, I can read it off the graph. 15 hours, I go up to it, looks like the graph is 150. So I would make $150. Of course, I could have gotten that from my equation y equals 10x, but the graph was a better way for me to visualize this. So remember we got this graph from plotting ordered pairs. And plotting is just the word we use when we start putting points down. And we got these ordered pairs from our t-chart. And we knew which values to put in the t-chart from our equation. So we have equations, t-charts, ordered pairs, graphs. It seems like there's a lot going on here. But it's really all the same thing. We can go straight from equation to graph, or ordered pair to graph. I'm just showing you a few different ways to think about this. And I want to explore this t-chart a little more. So these x, y values retrieved put in your T chart can be represented on a graph. And what I want you to do is tell me which of the following graphs is correct. Is it this or that one, maybe it's that one or that. Choose the best answer. Well let's see, let's look at the point -3, 6. 1, 2, 3. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. This would be -3 on the x-axis and 6 on the y. And only this blue graph goes through it. We can see this also goes through the point 0, 0, the origin. Or it comes pretty close, that was my drawing mistake. And it goes through the point 3, -6. So it looks like that's gotta be the correct answer. Let's talk a little bit more about making these T-charts. Specifically, let's talk about the choices you get to make. When I'm making a T-chart, I always want to make sure I have three values, three x,y pairs. And I get to choose whatever values I want. Let's say the equation I'm looking at is 2x + y = 10. And I want to make it table of values and then I want to graph that table. Well, let me write down some proposed tables of values that I might want to use. Maybe I'd want to use x values of 0, 2, and 4. Or maybe I'd want to use 1,000, 2,000, and 3,000. Or maybe I want to use negative 10, 100, and 101. I want to know which of these proposed T-charts will be easiest to make a graph from. Select whichever one you think is best. And I like this one the most. I don't like this T chart because it involves using really huge values of x, and there's no reason to plug in such large values if we don't have to. This one smaller values of x, but look they're all over the place, negative 10 and a 100. Those are pretty far apart from each other. And 100 and 101 are really close. Why would we do that to ourselves? Here we have nice, small manageable values of x and separated by a nice easy value of 2. That seems like it should work fine. Now that I've chosen the T-chart I want to use, or at least the x values, maybe you can fill in the y values for me using this equation. Well let's see. When I plug in x = 0, I just get 0 + y is 10. Which means y is 10. If I plug two I get 2 times 2 + y = 10. Which is 4 + y =10. And if I subtract 4 from both sides, I find that y = 6. And I can go through similar thinking to find when x is 4, y is 2. Let's add one more column to this chart. And I'm going to call it ordered pair. Can you write these values as ordered pairs? And you might need to consult your notes to remember exactly when ordered pairs. Well, all ordered pairs are written as X value comma Y value. So, in this case, we'd have 0,10 2,6 and 4,2. Now for this question, I'm going to propose a few potential graphs that match up with this data, and I want you to tell me which one could possibly be correct. Notice at this time, I'm not giving you any grid lines, and I'm not giving you a sense of scale. We don't know if this value is five or a million. But, despite this lack of information, I think you might be able to figure out the answer. So tell me, could this graph be correct? Or this one? Or that one? Choose the only option that could possibly match with this data. And the answer is this graph. And the way I figure this out was looking it x equals zero first. So along this line and noticing that the y value has to be positive. So maybe it's going to be this one, but it's certainly not this graph because y here is negative. But then, to distinguish between this and that graph I notice that as x got bigger two, four y got smaller 6, 2 and that describes this graph. X gets bigger, y goes down. x gets bigger, y goes down. So we just saw how to graph using a table of values or a T-chart. Now let's talk about graphing with intercepts. And first, let's meet John and his mom and dad. And let's say that John borrows money from his parents, in fact, he borrows $200. And he promises that he's going to pay back $10 a week. This is a classic case of needing math. Let's use a variable to represent how much money John still owes his parents at a given time. In fact, let's use one of my favorites. Let's say y represents how much money John owes his parents. Well, we can say that's equal to 200-10x. And here, x represents the number of weeks that have gone by since John's gotten the loan from his parents. And this makes me think, how much does John owe at week 0? And how much does he owe at week 20? And give your answers to these questions here and here. [BLANK_AUDIO] Well let's see. At week zero, I'm going to plug in zero for x. And I get y=200-10(0). Which is just zero. So he owes $200. And of course, that was right after his parents gave him the money. He still owed it all back to him. What about at week 20? Well now, y= 200 -10(20), which is 200 minus 200 which is $0. [BLANK_AUDIO] Now week 0 and week 20 are both pretty interesting in terms of the graph of this equation. Let's take a look at what's going on. So, we have this equation which relates the number of weeks to the money owed, x to y. And we know that at 0 weeks, or x =0, y = 200. He owes $200. And when x = 20, y = 0. So after 20 weeks he doesn't owe any money. And I can represent these as ordered pairs. In this case, (0, 200). And in this case (20, 0). And if this is my graph paper, I'm going to make each of these lines represent let's say five on the x-axis. So 5, 10, 15, 20. And each of the lines represent 50 on the y-axis. So, 50, 100, 150, 200. Well, then I can plot these points. (0, 200), (20, 0). And we see that they're special points. This point, (0, 200), is special because it's right on the y-axis. And so, we call it the y-intercept. It's going to be where the graph intercepts the y-axis. And this point, well, it lives right on the x-axis. So, you might be able to guess. This is what we call the x-intercept. And what's really cool is that these two points fully describe a line. They represent all the information I need to know to draw a graph. Because all I have to do is connect the dots. And generally, I want to extend my line to continue in either direction as well. And I almost forgot to label my axes. Now, why don't we practice with a slightly different graph? Can you tell me what the x and y-intercepts are for this graph? Enter the x and y coordinates of the x-intercept, and likewise for the y-intercept. Well, let me first fill out the information I know always be true for these intercepts. Since the x-intercept goes through the x-axis, the y value is 0. And since the y-intercept goes through the y-axis, the x value is 0. Now what else? x-intercept, okay. It looks like it's going through 1, 2, 3. The x value is 3. And the y value, it looks like, is negative 1, negative 2. So 0, -2. If you got that, great work. If not, go back and review some of this content. So now we know how to read the intercepts off of the graph. But we also learned something else interesting here, at the x-intercept, the y value is always 0, and at the y-intercept, the x value is always 0. I think we can use that to do something pretty interesting. What these facts are going to let us do is find the intercepts of a graph without actually seeing the graph, just by looking at the equation. Let's say we had this equation. I can find the x-intercept of this equation by setting the y value to 0 and then solving for x. So in this case 2x + 0 = 6, divide both sides by 2, and x = 3. So it looks like the x-intercept would be at 3,0. And to find the y-intercept, well, I know the x values going to be 0. So I'm going to start in my same equation. But now I'm going to set x = 0 and solve for y. Well, 2 times 0 is just 0, this tells me that y = 6 which means the y-intercept is at 0,6. Then once I have my points, I can draw a line to connect them, and there, I have my graph. Maybe you can answer a question for me now. What are the intercepts of 3x- 2y = 12? Enter the x and y-intercept as x, y coordinate pairs. [BLANK_AUDIO] Well, let's see. To solve this one, let me first copy my equation over here to give myself some room to work. Now, to get the x-intercept, I'm going to set the y value to zero, and then solve for x. So 3x- 2 times 0 = 12, which means 3x = 12. I can divide both sides by 3. And x = 4. So the x-intercept is (4,0). For the y-intercept, again I copy my equation down. And now the y-intercept, I'm going to be looking for an x value of zero. So 3 times 0- 2y = 12. 3 times 0 is 0, which just leaves me with negative 2y, don't forget the negative, equals 12. Divide both sides by negative 2, and I find that y = 12 divided by negative 2, becomes negative 6. So, the y-intercept is (0,-6). Up to this point our lines have been all slanty and I've got nothing against slanty lines, don't say I do, but let's talk a bit about horizontal and vertical lines, lines that go straight across or straight up and down and let's start with a question to get us thinking. So the question is which of the following lines only contains points with x values equal to 2? And I've given you three options, and I want you to just select the one that you think is correct. And actually to solve this one, I'm going to just plot a few points with x values equal to 2. going to plot the point 2,0, 2,3, and I dunno, 2,-3. So let's see. (2,0). One, two, zero. (2, 3). One, two, but then up three. And (2, -3), is over two, and down three. And it looks like all my points are on this line. So this line is a vertical line. It only contained points, like these, whose x values are equal to 2. The way we represent this line as a linear equation is like that, x=2. Notice this equation doesn't say anything about y, because y can be anything. It can be 0, 3, -3, or a billion or anything else. All it says is x=2, and that describes this vertical line. If we want to describe this vertical line, well, it looks like all the x values are at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. They're all that x=5, and so that would be the equation. Now let me ask you a question. What would be the equation of this vertical line? Enter your answer in this box. And the answer would be x = -3 and I know this speaks I can see that every single point on this line has an x-coordinate equal to -3. Now for the last bit of practice, can you tell me what the equation for the first, second, and third lines drawn here are? Enter your answers in these boxes. And let's see, the first line is at -1, -2, -3, -4, -5, -6. So it's x = -6. The second line is at x = -3, and the third is at x = 1. Good work. So we've talked about how it's possible to have lines for every single point has the exact same x- value. And that corresponded to a vertical line. But I want to know, is it possible to draw a line where every point has the same y -value? Just select yes or no. And the answer is yes, it definitely is possible. In fact, we're going to see that this is going to correspond to a horizontal line. And think back to what we were talking about earlier. A vertical line like this has every single x value the same. Every point has an x value equal to 4. 1, 2, 3, 4. So that's the equation of this line. Maybe you can tell me for this line what you think the equation might be. And note that all of the points in this line have a y value of 2. Think about it, and when you have an answer that you like, try entering it in this box. Don't worry if it's not right. [BLANK_AUDIO] The answer is y = 2. So just like a vertical line is described by x equals something, in this case 4, horizontal line is described by y equals something, in this case y equals one, two. Now for some practice maybe you can tell me, what's the equation for this first line, this second line and this third line? Enter your answers in these boxes. Well, this first line, it looks like every point has a Y value equal to 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. So y = 5. The second line is y = 1. And the third line, we go down 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, so it's y = -5. [BLANK_AUDIO] Now that you're familiar with graphing horizontal and vertical lines, I want you to practice graphing your own. And now I can't have you draw on your computer screen, so we're going to try something else. I want you to get a sheet of graph paper, or you can print one out or make your own, and I'm going to give you the equation for four lines. I'm going to ask you to graph them. Now let's say the four lines I gave you wound up looking something like this. You can see that they enclose this rectangle here, and in that rectangle there are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 squares, these four lines enclose a rectangle that has 12 squares. Now, I'm going to give you the equation of four different lines and ask you to graph those yourself and then count up the number of squares inside those four lines. So what I want to know is how many squares are inside the rectangle formed by these four lines? And the equations are here, and you can enter the number of squares in this box. Now I really recommend you get a sheet of graph paper, do this yourself, and count up the squares. The practice is really useful. So let's graph these lines. X =-5, -1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and then x=-3; -1, 2, 3. Y=8 is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and y=3 is up 1, 2, 3. Then I can see my rectangle here and it has one, two, three, four, five, six squares. Looks like the answer is that there are 6 squares So, we just talked about horizontal and vertical lines. Let's go back to lines that are neither horizontal nor vertical. Lines with a certain steepness. And to get us thinking about steepness, or what we're going to call slope, let's look at a set of stairs. Or actually, let's look at two sets of stairs. So now that we have two staircases, I want to know which staircase is steeper. Is it this one or is it this one? This staircase is steeper, it will be much more difficult to climb this staircase. We're actually seeing here when you see a staircase with a greater steepness than this one is a staircase with a larger slope. But we're mathematicians, it's not enough to know that this one is steeper than this one, we want to know by how much. We want to put a number to this thing we call a slope. The definition of slope is that it's the vertical change divided by the horizontal change. Or a good way to remember this is that it's the rise divided by the run, and we'll talk a little bit about what this means. For example, let's look at this set of stairs, and let's say that they have a vertical change, the height we could say of 5 feet. They also have a horizontal change which is also 5 feet. This staircase, on the other hand, has a vertical change of 10 feet but also has a horizontal change of 5. If I want to calculate the slope of this staircase, I would take the vertical change, the rise of 5 feet and divide it by the run, also 5 feet and 5 divided by 5 is equal to 1. Likewise for this staircase, if I want to calculate the slope, I'd use 10 feet as the rise because that's how tall the staircase is and I divide it by this horizontal run of 5. And 10 divided by 5 is equal to 2. This is the slope of 1, and this is the slope of 2. Just like we said, intuitively, if this staircase is steeper, our slope calculation is the same thing because 2 is bigger than 1. What if I had this grassy hill, and this hill goes through a 50 foot increase in height over 15 feet of horizontal distance. Can you tell me what is the slope of this hill? Enter your answer as a fraction with the rise and the run. Well, let's see, the hill rises by 50 feet and goes horizontally by 15 feet, great. Of course, we could simplify this because they share a common factor. Common factor of 5, in fact. So we could have written this is 10/3. This idea of slope doesn't just work with hills and staircases it works with mathematical graphs as well. Lines have a slope, just like hills and stairs do. Take this line, for example. If I pick any two points in this line, let's say this one, which is 0,0, and I don't know, this one which occurs at 2,4. I can compute the rise over the run of this line. So the rise would be this vertical increase in distance. And the run would be the horizontal increase over here. And I can tell goes up one, two, three, four. And it goes over 1, 2. 4 and 2. So the slope of this line is equal to the rise over the run, which in this case is 4 over 2 or just 2. Now let's calculate the slope of this line, thinking slightly differently, and let's see what happens. Instead of using 0, 0 and 2, 4 let's use 0, 0 and a different point. Let's use 0,0 and I don't know 3,6. Well now the rise is six and the run is three. If I calculate the slope as the rise over the run, I still get a value of 2. So it doesn't matter which points you choose. A line slope Is a line slope. So let's practice with a slightly different line. Let's look at this line. So what is the slope of this line? You can enter the answer here as rise over run, but make sure it's fully simplified. Well let's see, I chose this point, and it looks like he goes through this point. The coordinates of this point are zero, zero and the coordinates of this point are one, two, three, four, so x is four. And one, two, three, four, five, six, so y is six, four, six. I guess that means the rise is six and the run is four. So the slope would be rise over run, six over four, but I want to simplify that to three over two. So far, all the lines we've talked about have had a positive slope. But you can also have a negative slope. Positive slopes we think of as going uphill, when we read from left to right. Negative slopes are more downhill. So if I give you a few lines, can you tell me which of these lines have a negative slope? And you can just check all that apply. Well this line seems to go uphill as does this one. As I read from left to right, it goes up. But this one as I go from left to right goes down as does, as does this light blue one. So those are negative slopes. Now let's see how we can calculate the value of a negative slope. So let's take a look at this line with negative slope and see how we can calculate its value. First, I'm going to find two points that the line seems to really go through. Not here, the line just passes close but doesn't go through it, same with here. It goes through this point. And it looks like that point has coordinates (-3, 2). I could also use the point (0, 0) but I don't really want to. Let's use a different one. Nope, nope, this one, and it looks like that has coordinates 3,-2. Now when I think of how the line changes between these points. Well, vertically, when calculating the rise, it changes by, well, -4. It goes down four, and the run, well, it's still going to the right, so I'm going to call that a positive number. And it looks like it's six. So if I were to calculate the slope, I would get rise -4 over run 6 and that simplifies to -2/3. Now, time for you to practice. So can you tell me what's the slope of this line? Enter your answer in these boxes, rise over run. Well, let's see. The first thing I want to do is find some points. This time I think I will use 0, 0. Though, I could have used some others. And then it looks like this is a point as well, -1, 3. So the rise appears to be -3 and the run appears to be 1. So the slope was just -3 / 1, or we could have just written -3. We've talked about slope and we've talked about the horizontal and vertical lines. So let's bring the two together now. And let's see if we can find the slope of this horizontal line, whose equation it looks like is y = 3. So like I've been doing, I'm going to pick two points in this line. Let's do this one, which looks like it's -2,3, and this one, which looks like it's 2,3. Now to find the slope, I need to compare the vertical change to the horizontal change. The rise to the run. And when I do that, well, look, there's no vertical change, none at all. So the rise is 0, and I divide that by the run, which in this case is; 1, 2, 3, 4, 0/4. So the slope is 0. So I'm going to give you three lines. So for each of these three lines, I want you to identify the slope as positive, negative or zero. So you can just enter in either a plus sign, a minus sign or 0. And you can do that in the appropriate box. This line is perfectly horizontal, which means it has a slope of 0. This line goes up as I look from left to right, so its slope is positive. And this one goes down, so its slope is negative. So we saw that horizontal lines always have a slope of zero. Let's talk about the horizontal line's crazy cousin, the vertical line, and as always, let's choose two points. We can choose this one, which is 2,3, and this one, which is 2,-3. And I know the rule for calculating slope is to find the rise, the vertical change, and divide it by the run. So can you do that for me? Can you enter the rise here and the run there for these two particular points? Let's see, the is rise is one, two, three, four, five, six. Six. And the run, well, there's no horizontal change at all, it's a zero, and look what we have here, a division faux pas, six divided by zero. Now, I don't know about you, but I do not know how to divide by zero. This doesn't make sense. This is what we call undefined slope. In fact, all vertical lines, since they have no horizontal change, will result in an undefined slope. We just can't calculate it because we can't divide by zero. So, let's take everything we know about slope and what's positive, negative, zero, and undefined, and answer a question. I want you to identify whether each line has positive, negative, 0, or undefined slope. And here are your lines. And please enter +, -, 0, or u for undefined in each box. Here we have a line the increases as we go from left to right. That's positive, here we have a line met decreases as we go from left to right. That's negative. This is a horizontal line which always has a slope of zero, and a vertical line, which is undefined. Now we know how to go from a line to slope. And what I mean there is if we have a line already, we can figure out its slope. But what if we have the slope and we want the line? Well, it turns out slope isn't enough information. We also need to know, let's say, a point that the line goes through. So maybe we know the following. We have a line, and it goes through a certain point (1,3). And that line has a slope of 2. Let's see if we can identify the correct graph of this line. Which of these four graphs meets these criteria, goes through the point (1,3) and has a slope of 2? Well let's first find the point 1,3. I'm going to go over one. And up one, two, three. Okay. So it has to be this stark blue one or the green one. So which of these has a slope of two? Well slope of two means the rise is two, so I can go up two and the run on the run, the run is one, over one. So that will take me here. It looks like the stark blue line is correct. So we just identified which graph actually met our criteria, of going through a point and having a certain slope. But how do I generate that graph myself? Well let's say that a line goes through the point negative two, five and has a slope of negative three-fourths. Well, my first step is to find the point negative two, five. Negative one, negative two and then up one, two, three, four, five. Now my next step is to obey the commands given by the slope. To find the next point, by finding which point would have a rise of negative three and a run of four. So can you tell me what's the next point that I should plot? And you can just click the appropriate place on the graph. Well to generate the next point, I have to find a rise of -3, that means going down by three, but also a run of four, which means going over four, and that takes me here. So, this is the next point that I should plot, and once I have my two points, plot my line. Now, let's finish up with one last question to practice. If we have a line that goes through the point (-1,2), and it has a slope of -3/5. Can you identify, two points you would use to graph this line? Well first we want to find this point, (-1,2) and we know the slope is -3 over 5. So the rise is -3. One, two, three down because it's negative, and the run is 5, one, two, three, four, five. There are my two points. And there is the corresponding line. So you've been thinking of slope as vertical change over horizontal change and that's exactly what slope is. And we've been using the words rise and run. And the way we've been finding the slope, is by looking at a line, and finding two points. Let's say in this case 0,0 and, I don't know, 2,4. And then we've been finding the rise and the run by actually counting, 1, 2, 3, 4 is my rise, and 1, 2 is my run. So this would have a slope of 4 over 2, which I guess is 2, and that's fine, that works. But what if we don't have the image of the line itself? How can I get the slope then? Well, what we want to do is come up with a mathematical method of taking two points like 2,4 and 0,0. And somehow getting the slope from them, and luckily exactly this method exists. Now we typically use the letter m to stand for slope, and please don't ask me why I have no idea what m has to do with slope. But the equation we have two points looks something like this y2 minus y1 over x2 minus x1. And these little 2s and 1s are called subscripts, and what do they mean? Well, these 2s mean we're referring to our second point, and the 1s, mean we're referring to the first point. So this would be the y coordinate of the first point, the x coordinate the first point, x coordinate the second, and y coordinate the second. And I'm going to show you how I would use this equation with these points. So here, our first point was this one here, 0,0 though in truth it doesn't matter which we call first and which we call second. And your second point was this one here 2,4. And since I said x1 was the x coordinate of the first point, it corresponds to that 0. Ad y1 is the y coordinate of the first point, corresponds to that 0, x2 is this 2, and y2 is this 4. And so to use this equation to calculate the slope, I would say m equals y2 which is 4, minus y1 which is 0, over x2 which is 2, minus x1, which is 0. Which is just 4 over 2, or 2, and this makes a lot of sense. The numerator over here y2 minus y1, well that's just the change here, the vertical change. And x2 minus x1, that's this horizontal change. So why don't you practice now? What's the slope of a line that goes to the points 3,2 and, 5,5. Enter your answer here, numerator and denominator in these boxes. Now if you got this right, you may have used this as point one and this as point two, or you may have done the opposite. It turns out it doesn't matter. So I'm actually going to use this as my x1 and my y1, and these as my x2 and my y2. In which case, y2-y1 would be 2-5, and x2-x1 would be 3-5, which equals 2-5 is -3 and 3-5 is -2, so I have -3 over -2. But the negative signs simplify and this just equals three halves. This ordering, what to call x2 and y2 and x1 and y1, it can become confusing sometimes. So let's do a little practice to make sure we understand what's correct and what's not. I want to know which of the following would be a correct way to calculate the slope of the line that goes through both (2, 5) and (10, 3). And I want you to check all that apply. So here are your four choices, and for each one, see if it's a reasonable way of calculating the slope that goes through these points. Let's see, this one works. Does five minus three over two minus ten. What about this one? Well this one looks like it's comparing x values first. That would be something like run over rise, and that's not right. What about this one? Three minus five over ten minus two, that one looks good. And what about this one? Three minus five over two minus ten, this one actually doesn't work because if we call this X1 Y1 and this X2 and Y2, this equation would be taking Y2- Y1. And so far, there's nothing wrong with that. But it divides it by X1- X2, we've switched the orders. If we're going to do two minus one, we have to stick with two minus one, we can't flip them. At this point, you know how to graph a line if you know its slope and one point that exists on that line. Now we're going to talk about a common representation of the equation of a line and that's called the slope intercept form. And before we dive into the details, let's start with the question to get us thinking. Which of the following graphs has a slope of two-thirds and goes through the point 0, 4? Choose the correct graph. And the correct answer is this one. It goes through the point 0,4 and remember 0 is the X coordinate and 4 is the Y. And the slope is 2 over 3, so that means it goes up one, two, over one, two, three. And so the pink line here is the only one that fits. Well, I know it's going to have the form y = mx + b. So, I leave y and I leave x, but what do I put from my m? Well, that's just the slope which is -5. So, y = -5x + the y value of the y intercept, which looks like it's 2. So our equation is y = -5x + 2. So last question, we knew the slope and we knew the y intercept, and we got the equation of the line. Let's try going the other way. I want to know what's the slope of the line described by the equation Y equals 3x- 7 and to your answer here. Well, let's see. I see this is written in some form that looks like y= mx+b and so the coefficient for the x which is 3, well, that's my m and m is the slope. So looks like the slope is 3. Now, thinking of this same equation. Maybe you can tell me what the y intercept is. And remember, the y intercept is a point. So we need to give both an x and y coordinate. Well since it's the y-intercept, it intercepts the y-axis, the x coordinate is 0 and the y-intercept is actually -7. That's what this minus sign here means. So we've seen that this equation represents a line with slope 3 and a y intercept of (0,-7). Now I want you to actually graph this line on your own and then check two points that this graph goes through. So I'll give you a bunch of check boxes here. And only two of them will actually correspond to points on the graph. And you should have checked down here, and you should have checked right here, because this graph has a y intercept of 0, -7, which is all the way down here. And it has a slope of 3, which means up 3, over 1. And so the line should go through those two points. So you've gone from equation to graph. Let's go the other way, from graph to equation. Here's the graph of a line, and notice that it goes through this point and this point. And I want you to tell me, what is the equation of this line? See if you can choose the correct equation. Well, let's see. I know the equation is going to look like y = mx + b. So I just need to find my m and my b. Let's get the slope first. Slope is a rise over run. Well, this graph is going downward, so the rise here would be -1, and the run is 1, 2, 3, to get to this point, -1 over 3. Now I have to find my b. Well, the y value of the y intercept is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and that's positive 5. So it looks like this is the correct equation. What if you don't have the graph but you know the slope and y-intercept of the line? Can you find the equation then? Can you tell me what's the equation of the line with the slope 4 and y-intercept of (0,-6)? Enter your equation here. Well ,I'm looking to put my equation in y=mx+b form, m is my slope which is 4 and b is this y-value of the y-intercept. So y=4x, well, I could say plus -6, but I'll just say minus 6. So let's continue adding to our bag of tricks of what we can do with lines. In the last section we talked about what to do if we know the slope in the y intercept. Now let's talk about what to do if we know the slope and some random point that may not be the y-intercept because I want to be able to answer questions like, for example, find the equation of a line with a slope of two-thirds that goes through the point (9,8). First let's think about this point. Is this point a y-intercept? Select either yes or no. And the answer is no, it's not a y-intercept because this first value is 9 not zero and y-intercepts are always zero comma something. So that means we can't use this point in y equals an mx plus b. We need a new equation. And luckily we have an equation that helps us solve problems just like this. It involves using the point slope form of the equation of a line. And the point slope equation is y- y1 = m(x- x1). And what does all this mean? Well, m is still the slope and x1 and y1, they're just the coordinates of our point. So in this case X1 would be 9 and Y1 would be 8. So to practice entering something in point slope form. Maybe you can complete the point slope equation of the line described here. So can you just fill in the blanks here, here and here? Okay, well, y minus I'm looking for y1, which in this case would be 8, the y coordinate of our point. This is m, which is the slope, which is 2/3, two over three and then times x- X1. Well that's the x coordinate which is 9. This is the equation of this line written in point slope form. So we've put the equation of a line into point-slope form. So we have as y minus y one equals m times x minus x one. I can actually go from this point-slope version of the equation of the line, to a more familiar and easier to read slope-intercept version. And I'm going to do that by multiplying out this side and getting Y by itself on the left side. So the first thing I'm going to do is distribute this two-thirds, which gives me two-thirds x minus two-thirds times nine, and that is nine over one. Actually let me erase nine and write it as three times three because then I can simplify here. Okay, let's continue. Now I have y minus eight equals two-thirds x minus well, two times three over one, so just minus six. I can now add eight to both sides and what do you know? I have my equation in slope-intercept form, and in fact, maybe you can now tell me, what is the y-intercept of this line? Well let's see, we're talking y-intercept. Which means the x coordinate's going to be 0. And the y coordinate is just this 2. Because remember, in slope intercept form, this is y = m times x + b. And 2 has taken the place of b. Let's add one final scale to our line creation toolbox. Let's figure out how we can go from two points to the equation of a line. So, let's say we had two points. The first point is at the coordinates (1,8) and the second is at coordinates (3,12). And let's say, I want to write the equation of this line, and I want to write it in slope intercept form, y equals mx plus b. Which means I need to find m and I need to find b. M I can get using the slope equation we learned about earlier. And this is that equation. M equals y2- y1 over x2- x1. Which in this case y2 would be the y coordinate 0.2 which is 12- y1 which is the y coordinate 0.1 which is 8 divided by x2 which is three minus x1 which is 1. This gives me four over two or two. So I know the slope of my line. To get the y intercept, we can use the point slope form just like we did last time. So remember, we want to write the equation of this line. And we're going to do it in point slope form so that we can eventually get to y=mx+b. So can you help me fill in the blanks here? Enter your values for y1, m and x1 in these blanks. And there were actually two correct answers to this one. Now since I said y1 and x1, I suspect you may have used point 1, in which case you would have done y- 8 = m. And m is 2 times x minus, well x1 is 1. But you could have used point 2. It would have worked exactly the same. In which case we would have done y- 12 equals, the slope is still 2, times x -3. So we have these two versions of the equation of the same line and they're both written in point-slope form. I want to know, can you write the equation of this line in slope intercept form y = mx + b form? Enter your answer in this box. [BLANK_AUDIO] Well to write in slope intercept form, I know that it's going to be y equals m, which is two, that's my slope from before, times x, plus, well whatever b is and I need to find b. I'm going to manipulate one of these equations and you could choose either one, I'm going to choose this first one and so I'm ignoring the bottom one for now. And what I'm going to do is first distribute this two on the right-hand side, which gives me y minus eight equals two x minus two. Next I'm going to add eight to both sides and that gives me y equals two x plus six. So it looks like zero, six would be my y intercept and my b would just be six, excellent work.