When your classmates made a post in the forum that was a calder action. He wants to see examples of physics in real life, specifically simple harmonic motion. So I came to the park knowing that since simple harmonic motion is everywhere I find some example here and here I am in a tree. Turns out that when you displace a tree branch just slightly from equilibrium and release it, the resulting motion is simple harmonic motion. Don’t believe me, I can prove it to you. So, we’ve talked about simple harmonic motion, we’ve talked about masses on springs and we’ve talked about pendulums. Both of these when displaced from their equilibrium will exhibit simple harmonic motion and if we think that to why they display simple harmonic motion, we remember that it has something to do with some restoring force being proportional to a displacement. So for example for the mass on the spring, the restoring force was equal to minus K times X. The K was just a spring constant, X was the displacement from equilibrium and the minus sign, well the minus sign was very essential. The minus sign told us that the force was always opposite the displacement. So it tends to restore the mass to its equilibrium. Now this is thinking in terms of force. What about potential energy. Well for a spring the potential energy was equal to one half K times the displacement square and it’s this term the displacement squared that I want to talk about because we see that if we plot this, potential energy versus displacement we get this lovely parabola. Anything that has a parabolic potential energy curve when plotted against some sort of displacement will exhibit simple harmonic motion. When it’s displaced away from this equilibrium point, so if we can somehow show that a branch fluttering back and forth somehow exhibits this potential energy curve, well we’re done. We’ve proven that, it must be simple harmonic motion. Let’s see if we can do that. Well let’s think, what could the potential energy versus displacement look like for a branch and here when I say displacement, let’s say positive X means that the branch has been lifted up a little bit and negative means it’s been pulled down a little. To tell you the truth, I have no idea what this curve looks like. I know that it’s hard to bend a branch, so potential energy must somehow go up as I increase displacement, in fact in either direction. But then what does it do. Maybe there is some sort of plateau in the energy curve, the interpretation here would be, once we reach a certain displacement it’s not any harder to continue displacing the branch, to continue pulling it further in further out. I don’t think this is the case. Real branches don’t behave like that. Maybe instead it actually gets really, really difficult to continue bending the branch, or maybe it’s somewhere in between, of course these should be mirrored on this side. The fact is, we just don’t know. The only way we could figure this out, since branches are so complicated is by doing an experiment. But I am going to make the claim that we don’t need to because for small displacements, look what we have here and they can be proven mathematically in a very rigorous way that for small displacements this trough must has to be a parabola. So for this region, in here, potential energy is equal to something times displacement squared. And hell who really care what that something is and in fact what we’ve shown here is actually a deep truth of reality. Anything with some equilibrium position whether it’s a branch or a ball in a well or a mass on a spring for small displacements will with absolute certainty undergo a simple harmonic motion. So on oscillating tree branch, that’s my example of physics in action, what’s your's. In the U.S. and on the Internet there has been a lot of talk about this question. Why can't we open windows on a plane and most of the discussion I've seen on this topic has been completely unproductive. People seem to be ignoring the fact that this is an excellent question. So, let's figure it out, why can't we open windows on a plane. Well the fundamental principle that works here is the same principle that allows me to drink water out of a straw. It's the same phenomenon that causes your ears to hurt, if you go too deep underwater too quickly and what is this concept, it's this concept called pressure. And we're specifically going to talk about today is air pressure. So before we get right into air pressure let's talk about air. Here is the surface of the earth. Above the surface of the earth is air. Now air is just a bunch of molecules of nitrogen and oxygen and they are in constant motion and always bumping into each other. But all these molecules, well they have a weight and in fact we can imagine thinking of a very specific column of air. Let's think of this column of air here where we filled these imaginary walls and there is some behind and in front as well. So we're really just focusing on one column of air. Now I can actually measure the weight of this air. I won't explain exactly how yet, but I can do it. I want to ask you a little question and get you thinking. Where would the weight of the air be the greatest? So if I could put a scale anywhere in here and somehow measure the weight of the column of air above that scale, where it would be the greatest? Would it be down here, near the bottom, or way up here near the top or maybe somewhere in the middle, choose the best answer. Well the answer is that there will be greatest down here. Way down here, we’re feeling the wait of all the air above us. Up here, well, I didn’t even try it. But up here, we’re getting close to outer space. There’s almost no air above me to feel any weight from. And down here, we’re somewhere in the middle. We are feeling the weight of the air above us, but it’s not as much as we’d feel down here. Maybe this is about 10,000 meter square, jetliners would fly. Now before we get any further, I want to stop using this word weight. After all we’re supposed to be talking about pressure. And pressure is a little bit more fundamental here than weight. Weight, you see, depends on the area of this column of air. If we made it twice as big, we would have had twice as much air and twice as much weight . So, why don’t we do this? Why don’t we do the weight of air and divide it by this area . And this in fact is exactly what air pressure is. The weight of air divided by the area for which we’re talking about. In fact, pressure in general which we usually label with a big P is equal to any force – remember weight is a force, divided by an area. Okay. So now we can stop using this word weight and type of pressure. Down at low altitude, we have high pressure and once we start getting towards outer space we have low pressure. So, what are the consequences of something being placed under pressure? Well, if I look at this balloon, I can apply pressure to it by exerting a force over its area. And when I do, well, the balloon actually gets a little bit smaller. The air inside the balloon gets a little more densely packed together. And in fact, this is exactly what happens on earth. Out here, far away from the surface of the earth, there are not very many air molecules. This is a low pressure environment and with nothing to weigh down on these air molecules from above, they’re basically free to play. They are free to move around. Now below this outer layer of the atmosphere, where all these air molecules are sort of weighing on the atoms below it, the molecules below it, and so these become a little more densely packed. And as we go even further down towards the surface of the earth, where us humans tend to live, the air gets even more densely packed. And so we see that down near the surface of the earth, where we have high pressure, we also have a high density of air molecules. And this high density of air molecules makes us humans living at the surface very happy. So I want to know, why do humans like high pressure so much? Maybe the weight from all that air above us keeps us from growing too tall. Maybe air pollution tends to go to regions of low pressure. Or maybe it means that there’s lots of oxygen for us to breathe. Go ahead and choose the best answer. Well this one actually – this is not how pressure works. If I hold my hand out right now, I don’t just feel the weight of air coming from above, I actually feel that pressure pushing from all directions which is why air pressure isn’t a burden. It doesn’t prevent me from standing up. It turns out that the reason why humans like high pressure so much is because with all that high density of air, means that with every breath we get a ton of oxygen and this makes the mitochondrion in our cells very happy. If there’s lots of oxygen down here, means there’s less oxygen up here where planes fly. And in fact if we go to 10,000 meters, which is about cruising altitude for your typical jet, the pressure is one-third of what it is at sea level. And therefore the density is also one-third of what it is at sea level. So, maybe you’re ready to answer our original question. What actually would happen if you open the windows on a plane which it was cruising at 10,000 meters? Maybe you think the plane would explode. Maybe you think that everyone would get sucked out of the window or you maybe you just think there won’t be enough oxygen and passengers will start to pass out. Choose the best answer and I’m warning you if you’re a movie buff, you might actually be in bad shape to answer this question. So, it turns out this is not the correct answer. Despite what the movies would have you believe, a small in the airplane will not lead to everyone getting sucked out of that hole. And the plane also is not going to explode. The high pressure air in the plane, and a plane’s cabin is pressurized so that the passengers can breathe, well that air would all rush out of the plane, not fast enough to suck you out but eventually the pressure inside and outside the plane would equilibrate. And, yes, this means that the low density of oxygen would mean passengers wouldn’t get enough oxygen and eventually start to pass out. So this wasn’t a super trivial question. This is actually a really good question. Why can’t you open the windows on a plane? And now you know the answer. Congratulations! Maybe now you can go on to the forums and hypothesize about another seemingly easy question. How does the straw work? See you on the forum. First, congratulations on making it through the course. You have learned so much. You've learned how to calculate the circumference of the earth. How to quantify motion. How to use Newton's laws to calculate acceleration. How to keep The Netherlands dry. How to find your location at sea. How to protect tall buildings from lightening. And even a bit of special relativity. Now, it's time to use what you've learned and put it in practice on the final exam. This exam will have no deadline, and you can take it whenever you want. You'll get instant feedback on each question, so you can submit as many answers as you'd like without penalty. Once you're finished with the exam, you can complete the course by going to your transcript page and clicking on the "Complete Course" button. You will get one of four certificates based on how many answers you get correct. The criteria for each of these certificates is below the video. Good luck on the exam. Teaching this course has been an incredible experience. I've been really blown away by the amount of curiosity and helpfulness that I've seen in the forums. I'd like to say thank you to Jonathon for everything he's done to make this class possible, to Grant, the editor and videographer. Without him this wouldn't have happened. And, of course, to you for everything you've done to make this class such a success. I can't wait to see you in future Udacity classes. Good luck on the exam. I was just looking at the St Patrick's Church here in San Francisco. I want to know how tall it is. I think we have the skills to answer that question. Some relevant facts. Right now, my head is about 1 m above the height of the camera lens, and the camera is about 2 meters in front of me. The church is about 90 meters behind me, and notice that the top of the church lines up perfectly with the top of my head. I want you to tell me how tall is the St Patrick's Church and give your answer in meters. In this problem we're told that to an observer down here Andy, who is standing 2 m away but who is 1 m above the ground, will look just as tall as this church 90 m away. The trick to solving this problem is to realize that in order for the building and Andy to look the same height from the observer's perspective down here, we have to be able to connect a line that goes from the top of the building through Andy's head and finally ends at the observer's eyes. When we draw these lines corresponding to the height of the building and the height of Andy, we get these nice similar triangles. Now, we don't know anything about the angles of these triangles, except for the fact that these are right angles, but we don't need to. Remember that with similar triangles we have this nice property that the ratio of any two corresponding sides of the smaller triangle and the larger triangle have to be equal. This means that the ratio of 1 m to 2 m has to be exactly the same as the ration of the height of the church to the distance the church is away from the viewpoint of the observer. We can express this relationship using this equation here. That 1/2 is exactly equal to the height of the building, which I've labeled here with a question mark, over 90 m. Using this equation to solve for the height of the building, I find that the building is 45 m off the ground. Great job. This question is about changing the period of a mass oscillating on a spring. Let's say you pull this mass back and release it and let it oscillate. When you do this you measure some period, which we'll call T. That's how long it takes to go forward and backward. Now, what if you wanted to double the period? You want to take twice as long to complete an oscillation. I want to know what size mass should you attach to the spring. Since I've given you no numbers, this should be in terms of m. If you think the mass should be half as big, you would enter 0.5 here. If you think the mass should be 10 times as big, you'd enter a 10 here. Good luck. Well, the period of a mass spring system is given by this equation and notice that it's proportional to √m. If I want the period to double, I need to quadruple m since √4 is 2. The mass I should attach should have a mass of 4 m. I'm here at one of the San Francisco train stations. Now, I have a mass of 65 kg. The stairs I'm climbing have a height of 6 meters. Now, I want you to tell me how much work do I have to do to climb these stairs? Enter your answer here in joules. In this problem, we were tasked with figuring out how much work 65 kg Andy has to do to climb this flight of stairs that's 6 m tall. Let's think about what's going on here in terms of energy. Andy starts and ends with no kinetic energy, so none of his net work is going to contribute towards kinetic energy, but because Andy ends at a higher height than he started, that means he has more gravitational potential energy up here than he did down here. This just means that the net work done by Andy is equal to the change in his potential energy. This, of course, is just equal to the final potential energy minus the original potential energy. If we choose potential energy to be 0 at the bottom of the stairs, we can say that the original potential energy--when he's at the bottom of the stairs-- is equal to 0. This leave just the final potential energy term, which we know is equal to mg times the final height. Plugging in all my values here, I find that Andy has to do 3900 J of work to climb this 6 m flight of stairs. Great job. We're here on Palo Street in San Francisco. Palo Street is one of the routes for San Francisco's famous trolley cars. Now, interestingly enough, the force that pushes these cars up the hill is actually the force of friction between the track and the wheels of the car. Now, this section of the hill I'm on right now is inclined at an angle of 10 degrees. If we assume the mass of the trolley car to be 1,000 kg, what I want to know is what force is necessary to keep the car moving up the hill at a constant speed. In this problem, we were tasked with figuring out how strong this force F has to be to keep this trolley, which has a mass of 1000 kg, moving at a constant rate up this incline of 10 degrees. The first thing I want to do here is diagram all the forces that are acting on the troller, and there are three forces acting on our trolley. There is this force F, which corresponds to the road pushing the trolley up the hill. There is the normal force acting perpendicular to the slope, and there is the force of gravity, which points straight down. As we've done in the past, we can break down the force of gravity into components that are parallel to the incline and perpendicular to the incline. You'll remember that this angle here is the same as this angle here. They're both 10 degrees. All right. Now, we know that we want this trolley to move at a constant velocity, which means that it can't be accelerating, so acceleration has to be 0. If it's not accelerating, that means there can't be any net force acting on the trolley. The net force also has to be equal to 0. If the net force is equal to 0, that means all of these forces perfectly balance each other out. Let's look at the perpendicular direction first. There is some component of the force of gravity acting perpendicular to the incline, but we don't need to worry about that, since we know that's going to be perfectly balanced out by the normal force here. We also know that this force F has to exactly equal the component of gravity that's parallel to the incline. That gives us this equation here. Now using some trigonometry, I know that F is equal to the full force of gravity times the sine of 10 degrees, and of course the force of gravity is just equal to mg. Plugging in numbers here, I find that the force F required to keep the trolley moving at a constant velocity is equal to 1,736 Newtons. Great work. During a lightening storm, mass electric fields can build up between the ground and the earth. Let's say that in one particular lightening storm, you have an electric field of 10,000 N/C pointing downwards. Let's say you want to take advantage of this electric field by taking an air-filled balloon that you've recently inflated-- that's a balloon, by the way-- and rubbing it on your head, because rubbing a balloon on your head actually causes the rubber of the balloon to strip electrons away from your hair and give the balloon a negative charge. By doing this, you're hoping that you can take your balloon and have it suspend itself inside this region of electric fields in such a way that the weight of the balloon downwards is exactly the balanced by an electric force upwards. If we know that the weight of the balloon--or I should say the mass of the balloon-- is 30 g, how much charge must you put on the balloon to have it balance perfeclty in this electric field? Enter your answer here in Coulombs. I've set this up in scientific notation, so you can enter your exponent here and the base part of your number here. Well, in this situation, the electric force has the balance the force of gravity, the weight. I know the equation for the electric force is qE. That tells me that q must be mg/E. When I enter this into a calculator, I get a result of 3 * 10⁻⁵ C. This question is going to be a little trickier and not because it's something that you don't know how to do, but because I'm not going to give you any pictures for it. If you have a 1 m rod and it casts a 1 m shadow at noon on the summer solstice, I want to know what is your latitude. You can enter your answer here in degrees north. We're going to assume we're in the northern hemisphere here. As a note, the suns rays strike the earth vertically or perpendicularly at 23.5 degrees N latitude on the summer solstice. Here's the earth, and here are the sun's rays coming in parallel to strike the earth. This would be the equation and this line up here would be the tropic of cancer where the sun's rays are striking the earth perpendicularly. If I have some 1 m long rod, let's say, here at some latitude north of the Tropic of Cancer, I can sort of see that there would be a shadow down here cast by the rod. In fact, I'm going to draw some lines to help guide our eyes. We know that this angle here is 23.5 degrees, because this is where the sun's rays are striking vertically. This angle I'm going to call α and I can tell since this line is parallel to this line this angle is α as well. Well, clearly my latitude--I'll call that l--is just equal to 23.5 plus whatever this angle α is. I just need to find α. Let's zoom in here, because this is where α is showing up to see if we can figure what's going on. Here's our object with a height of 1 m and here come the sun's rays, which makes this the shadow down here. The shadow also has a length of 1 m. Now I can see that this angle α is this angle formed by the sun's rays and the object, so the tangent α is just equal to this opposite side over the adjacent side, or 1/1, which is just equal to 1. If I use a calculator to find the inverse tangent of 1, I find that α is equal to 45 degrees. Since my latitude is just 45 + 23.5, I have a latitude of 68.5 degrees N. We're here at the San Francisco trolley station. Now, the trolleys in San Francisco have a lot of mass. The hills in San Francisco are quite steep. In order to keep a decent pace going up these hills, these trolleys need to have a lot of power. In this problem, you're going to make some calculations involving the power of a San Francisco trolley. So, my question is if you have a cable car with a mass of 2000 kg on a hill inclined at 10 degrees and it needs to keep moving up at a constant pace of 25 kg per hour, what is the necessary power? Now, there's two ways to solve this problem. One involves using an equation that you learned in one of the problem sets, and actually this would be a nice, simple, easy way to solve it. The other would require a little bit more work and would involve the definition of power that you learned in class. You can enter your answer here in watts. Now remember that when we look at a mass on an inclined plane or a hill, we break its weight into perpendicular and parallel components. This parallel component is mg sin α. That's the force that's kind of bringing the car down the hill, that would tend to bring the car down the hill. But we want the car to go up the hill. This is the force that we have to combat, that we have to oppose. Now, the slick way to solve this problem is to say that power is equal to force times velocity. That's an equation that Jonathan showed you in one of the previous problem sets. Well, our force is just mg sin α, and our velocity is 25 km/h. If we plug in m of 2000, g of 10, α of 10 degrees, and a velocity of 25-- we need to convert that to m/s. We're going to use this value of 6.94 m/s. I get a power of 24100 W. If you had a different solution, you should go to the forums and share it with your classmates. Sometimes the questions we come up with in this class are a little bit contrived, but this one is actually practical. Let's say your spaceship crashes onto a strange planet. It could happen to you. It could happen to you. You'll want to know what to do. At first you're not too happy, because you don't know where you are, but then you see this strange tree over here with the vine dangling from one of the branches. This makes you happy, because now you think, hey, I can make a pendulum out of this and perhaps by doing that, I can somehow figure out what the acceleration due to gravity is on this strange planet. To make this into a pendulum, you tie your space backpack filled with space weights down at the bottom of this vine, which by the way has a length of 12 m. Your goal is to find little g--the acceleration due to gravity on the surface of this strange planet. What you do is you pull this back by a small amount and let it swing back and forth and back and forth. You time this swinging, and when you let it swing back and forth 10 times, you find it takes 45 seconds. I want you to tell me what is little g, the acceleration due to gravity, and you can enter your answer here in seconds. Well, let's see. It takes 45 sec to swing back and forth 10 times. To swing back and forth one time would be a period of 4.5 sec. Now remember this is the period for the pendulum--2π times the square root of the length of the pendulum over the acceleration due to gravity, or by squaring both sides and doing some algebraic manipulation, we find that this is the acceleration due to gravity, and plugging in 12 for l and 4.5 for t we find an acceleration due to gravity of 23.4 m/s². I'm standing in front of a small waterfall. Now, this waterfall has a height of about 1.5 m. You can and should calculate the speed that you'd expect these water droplets to be falling as they hit the ground. It turns out that when we measure the speed of these water droplets, it's actually a little less than what we would calculate, and that's because work is being done by the air resistance. When we measure the speed of these water droplets, they're moving at 4 m/s. I want you to tell me how much work is being done on each 1 g drop of water as it falls the 1.5 m to the ground. In this problem, we're considering droplets of water that have a mass of 1 gram here, and they're falling a distance of 1.5 m. When we measured their final speed, we found that they were going at 4 m/s, which is less than we expect. Now we have to figure out how much work was done by air resistance in order to slow down this 1 g drop of water to 4 m/s. The first thing we know is that the total work done on the drop of water must be equal to its change in kinetic energy. That's just the work-energy theorem. What's the total work equal to? Well, it's just equal to the work done by gravity minus the work done by friction. We know that the work done by gravity is just equal to the force of gravity times the distance it acts over, and we also know that the change in kinetic energy is just equal to the final kinetic energy minus the original kinetic energy. Since the drops starts at rest, we know that they have no original kinetic energy. This term we can cross out. Now we can plug in mg for the force of gravity, and we can use 1/2 mv final squared for the final kinetic energy. Solving for the work done by friction, I get this equation here. Finally, when I plug in all my numbers here, I get that the work done by friction on a single drop of water has to be equal to 0.007 J. Good job. In Unit 5 we briefly mentioned dead reckoning. Dead reckoning is the method that mariners used to use to estimate their position at sea. They did this by keeping a log book of the direction they were heading, they speed they were moving at, and the duration that they moved at that speed and direction. In one particular journey where a ship wants to get from start to finish the ship starts out by going east at a speed of 12 k/h for 2.5 hours. The ship then heads south at 20 m/h for 1 hour, east at 15 m/h for 3 hours and then finally northeast at 8 k/h for 1 hour. My question is what's the straight-line distance between start and finish. By straight-line distance, I mean this distance from start to finish. Not the total distance the ship traveled, because the ship took a slightly inefficient route. Now, this is a sort of tricky problem, but as long as you keep track of your trignometry and geometry, and you will have to make some right triangles, you'll be able to get this one right. Enter your answer here in kilometers. Let's see, to get from start to finish we need to make progress in both the east-west direction and the north-south direction. This is my straight line distance. I can think of it as being composed of east-west progress and north-south progress. If I can find the legs of this triangle, I should be able to find this third leg. Let's see what we can do. First it travels east at this speed for this duration. After leg one it's moved 30 km eastward. In fact, why don't I keep track of this in some sort of table-- progress east and progress south. For this first entry we make 30 km of progress east and 0 south, because I'm heading exactly east. In the next entry, I'm going exactly south at 20 km/h for 1 hour, which means 20 km south and 0 east. In the next entry, I go 15 k/h for 3 hours, which is 45 km east and 0 south. What about this last entry? I'm going northeast 8 km/h for 1 hour. That would be hypotenuse of 8, but this side actually has both an east component and a north component. Well, northeast means I'm exactly between east and north, so this angle is 45 degrees. In fact, I can see that cos 45 is going to be equal to this eastward progress-- I'll call this E--over the hypotenuse of 8. The eastward progress will be 8 cos 45, which is 5.7 km, and the southward progress will be identical--wait. I won't be identical. It will be negative. We're not going south here. We're going north. It'll be negative 5.7 km. We can get that by looking at the sine of this angle. Now, let's keep track of total progress south. That would be this leg of the triangle here. Well, I'm south 20 but then north 5.7, so this leg has a total length of 14.3 km. This leg has a length of 30 + 45, which is 75, plus 5.7, which is 80.7 km. I can do the Pythagorean Theorem to find this side. I find a straight line distance of 81.96 km. That's probably too precise. I should probably just say 82 km. This question is about Galileo and his experiments on motion. Now, Galileo loved doing these experiments, which is why is has this wonderful giant smile. But Galileo didn't have stopwatch. Instead, he measured time with a water clock. A water clock was basically just a giant reservoir of water that he kept filled to the top and that reservoir would leak at a constant rate. By measuring the mass of water he collected in a certain time interval, Galileo could infer how long an object had been moving, let's say rolling or dropping. Let's define something called a time interval and let's say that 1 time interval is the amount of time it takes to fill up this bucket with one gram of water. Let's say that when Galileo rolls this ball, he finds that in the first time interval in which it's rolling, the ball rolls 0.8 m. Maybe that means it rolled from here to here. What I want you to tell me is how far the ball rolls in the second time interval and in the third. Now, keep in mind I'm not asking how far it's rolled after two time intervals. That would be the sum of the first distance and the second time interval distance. I just want to know in the second time interval it rolls from, let's say, here to some point on this board or on this plane. I want you to tell me how big is this distance in the second time interval and in the third. You can enter your answer here and here in meters. Well, the key to this problem was remembering that the distance is proportional to time squared. In two time intervals the time has doubled, which means the distance has quadrupled. If this was 0.8, the second second was 0.8 * 4 or 2². That's 3.2 m. Remember, I was asking for this distance and this distance is just 3.2 - 0.8, which is 2.4 m. The third time interval, well, this is 3 times longer than 1 interval, so 3² = 9, so it's going to be 9 times bigger. That means this distance is 9 * 0.8 or 7.2 m. But that's not the answer. Once again, I wanted this part and that's 7.2 - 3.2, which is 4.0. Good work. This question is about the double inclined plane. What we have here is a pretty intimidating setup. We have what we could view as 2 inclined planes-- one inclined at an angle α and one inclined at an angle β. We have two masses--m1 and m2--and of course we're pretending there's no friction, because we just don't want to deal with that right now. I want to know if I set this system up and then release it, how is it going to accelerate. Just to be consistent, let's call clockwise direction, so if this one's moving up then this one's moving down the plane. We'll call that positive acceleration-- +a. For this question I'm going to tell you that the acceleration looks something like this. Now, what's going on here? Well, the acceleration is g--the acceleration due to gravity-- times this modifier of some sort. What I want you to do is in each of the red boxes put either a 1 or a 2 if the relevant mass is mass 1 you put a 1, 2 you put a 2. In the blue boxes, I want you to put either a plus, a minus, multiplication sign, or division sign, depending on what you think makes sense. Now, you could just solve this equation. You could do F = ma for both of the blocks and get an answer. Or you could try using your intuition. See what makes sense. Think of limiting cases. What happens when m1 gets really big or m2 gets really big. What happens if β is really small or α is really small? Thinking this way should be able, in theory, to tell you exactly what symbols go in the blue and red boxes. Good luck. Okay, let's see. Well, on the bottom I know this has to be a plus sign. If this were a minus sign, the denominator could go to 0 when the masses were equal. Dividing by 0 is something that I don't know how to do. What about up here? It seems like there must be some situations where if you set this up just right, nothing happens. The whole setup is static--aka the acceleration is 0. The only way we can get a 0 in the numerator is if we put a minus sign here. Now it's just a matter of saying, well, if m2 is really, really big I expect a positive acceleration. The system will accelerate in the direction that m2 wants to accelerate. That happens here. If m1 is really big, I want a negative acceleration. I expect the system to accelerate that way. That happens when the thing we're subtracting --this term--gets really large, which means this had better be an m1. Then when m1 is big this term will get big. If you solved this by doing F = ma on both of these blocks and got this answer, I'm especially impressed and I totally encourage you to go to the forums and share your answers with your classmates. If you happen to drive a car with a manual transmission and you've ever let the battery die, well, there's a good chance you've had to push your car. Let's talk about the forces involve in pushing a car. Let's say we're lucky enough to have 3 people pushing this car. Our green- and purple-haired doctors and, oh I don't know, Albert Einstein. Let's say we're looking at this car from above. Here's our bird's-eye view of the car--from above--and the mass of this car is 1000 kg. Let's say Einstein is pushing from directly behind--here's the top of Einstein's head, and there are his arms. The green-haired doctor is pushing from the side at a small angle, you'll notice. The purple-haired doctor is pushing from the other side, also at a small angle. Let's say an interesting fact about this group of friends is that they can all push with exactly the same force. When they all push on this car at that same time with this exact same force, the acceleration of the car is 0.5 m/s². The angle that the green- and purple-haired doctors are pushing at we'll call α. For this problem α is 30 degrees, so they're pushing at a 30-degree angle. Einstein here is pushing directly up on the back of the car, but these guys are doing it at a 30-degree angle. I want you to tell me with what force is each person pushing. Enter your answer here in Newtons. This question is about both gravity and electricity. Let's say that Benjamin Franklin is standing in a room holding an object. This room actually has a horizontal electric field. That electric field is equal to 100 N/C. Obviously, Ben Franklin is very excited, because he gets to do an experiment with electricity. Furthermore, let's say that this ball has both a mass, 8 kg, and it's actually charged as well. It's charge is 0.1 C. That's a positive charge. Now what's going to happen when he releases this ball is it will feel two forces. It will, of course, feel a force from gravity downward, but it's also going to feel an electric force. It's going to undergo 2-dimensional motion, but this will be much different than the 2-dimensional motion of a ball being thrown in the air under normal circumstances, because now there's going to be a horizontal component of acceleration. I want you to tell me if this height is equal to 1.2 m and we know that the ball will feel a force over here so it'll probably land somewhere--I don't know--here or here or here. I want you to tell me d--the distance away from Ben Franklin where the ball strikes the ground. You can enter your answer here in meters. I'm warning you this is quite a tricky question, but using what you know about F = ma and motion and electricity you can tie it all together, and I believe you can get this answer. Give it a shot. Well, let's see. The first thing I want to know if how much time the ball spends in the air. That's governed entirely by its vertical motion. Remember this equation? Let's use that. Though maybe I should write Δy instead of Δx to emphasize this is vertical motion. I know that Δy, the total distance the ball moves, is just h, and the ball starts at rest, so I can ignore this term. That just leaves me with this--½gt². Remember, instead of a I wrote g, the acceleration of gravity. That tells me the time the ball spends in the air is twice the height of g and the square root of that. When you plug in 1.2 for h and 10 for g you get a value of 0.49 sec. Okay, so that's how long the ball spends in the air. Now let's analyze the horizontal component of motion. That's governed entirely by the electric force. Remember, the electric force is equal to qE, which in this case would be 0.1 * 100 or 10 N. That 10 N force is causing an acceleration. We know that F = ma, so 10 N is equal to mass the acceleration in the x direction I should say, because we're just looking at that component motion for now. Solving this, I find that this x acceleration is equal to 10 divided by the mass. When I plug in 8 kg, I find that's equal to 1.25 m/s². Well, now I can use my good friend--Δx is equal to initial velocity times time, but there's no initial velocity, so I'll ignore that, plus ½a--that's this a--times the time squared. The time we're going to use is that 0.49 sec we found before. That gives me distance of 0.15 m. Actually, if this is was 1.2 m, it only moved about to here. Good work. When travelling in a city, it can often be faster to use a bicycle than to take a bus. One reason for this is that bikes are able to accelerate faster than buses can. Now, let's say that a bike and a bus both stopped at a red light, take off at the exact same time when the light turns green. The bike can accelerate at 1.2 m/s² but only to a top speed of 12 m/s. The bus on the other hand can accelerate at 0.8 m/s² to a top speed of 20 m/s. Now, since the bike has a higher initial acceleration, it will be in front of the bus for some time. I want to know how much time elapses before the bus catches up with the biker. For this question, we're going to think about a table that, by the way, is a table. On this table we're going to put a giant spring. Here's the spring, uncompressed, not stretched, totally at equilibrium, totally boring, so let's compress it. The way we're going to do that is by squeezing it back a distance Δx, and by putting a little block here with mass m, of course. Of course--I shouldn't even have to say it--this table is frictionless. Of course, this table has some height h and the spring has some constant, some stiffness, k. When I squeeze this, if I let go what's going to happen? The mass is going to fling forward and shoot off and land somewhere over here. Your job for this question is to tell me what is this distance d. Now, you can't answer it yet. Let me give you some numbers. The height of the table is 2 m. The mass is 1 kg. Δx is 25 cm--not meters. The spring constant is 350 N/m. That should be enough information for you to tell me what is d. How far will this object fall from the table when it finally lands? You can enter your answer here in meters. Well, the key to this problem is breaking it into parts. This question really has two parts the way I see it. First we have an energy part. When I squeeze the spring, I'm adding elastic potential energy into our system. When I let this go and release it, that elastic potential energy is being converted to kinetic energy. From that I should be able to find the velocity at which the mass leaves the table. How do I do that? I see that all of the potential energy--and this is the potential energy in a spring-- all gets converted to kinetic energy. Solving out the algebra, which I've done in a few steps here, tells me that the velocity with which it leaves the spring and therefore leaves the table is equal to x * √(k / m). Plugging in our values: x is 0.25 cm, remember--not meters--times √350/1. But over 1 doesn't change anything, so a √350. This gives me a velocity of 5.68 m/s. Okay. Phase one of the problem is done. Now we can just think of this problem as a block being thrown horizontally with a velocity of 4.68 m/s. Now we use our standard 2-dimensional motion skills to solve this. First I want to calculate the time spend in the air. Since there's no vertical velocity initially, my equation of motion simplifies to this. There's no v₀t term this time. I know Δy is equal to h, so manipulating this around-- moving the 2 up, dividing by g--I find t² is equal to 2h/g, which means the time the object spends in the air is just the square root of that-- 2h--h is 2 meters, so 2 * 2 is 4 over g, which is 10, gives me a time of 0.63 sec. Now, well, I'm almost done. We know that vertical and horizontal motion are independent in free fall. We're moving at this constant velocity of 4.68 m/s horizontally for 0.63 sec. So, d is just equal to this v₀ₓ now, the initial velocity in the x direction, times this time, and when I plug in this numbers, I get a distance of 2.96 or we'll just round it to 3 m. So you just finished your Udacity course. Congratulations. But how do you tell the world that you've finished one of our courses. It's quite easy. All you do is go to the welcome tab, click on my transcript and then choose the course that you want to complete. In this case, let's say we want to complete CS253, we click complete course, we tell them we're sure we want to complete it and then we notice that it appears in our passed classes. It might take a few seconds to generate your certificate but if you refresh the page, it should be there. All you need to do is click on download certificate and you've just finished your Udacity course. Udacity Inc Presents Instructor - Andy Brown Director of Photography - CLAY KEMPF Second Camera and editor - Grant Yaffee Filmed on Location in - Italy, Netherlands, England . LANDMARKS IN PHYSICS Welcome to Landmarks in Physics. I'm Andy Brown, the instructor for this course, and here we are, on location in Siracusa, Italy. This course is really designed for anyone. If you have no background in physics but know a little bit of algebra, you're going to succeed in the course. In Unit 1, we're going to begin with a question that fascinated the Greeks--how big is our planet? Today, it's easy to answer that question. You can go to Google and type "what is the circumference of the earth?" But 2,000 years ago the Greeks didn't have Google. Still, a man named Eratosthenes was able to answer this question using nothing more than some basic assumptions about the earth and the sun along with an understanding of geometry, trigonometry and shadows. In this unit, we'll learn everything we need to answer this question ourselves, and in doing so, we'll learn some of the important mathematical tools that we'll be using throughout the course. By the end of this unit, you'll be able to go outside on a sunny day and estimate the circumference of the earth yourself. Before we can answer the question of what the earth's circumference is, we need to start thinking about what the shape of the earth is. Now, our earth is a sphere. When we draw this sphere we often include lines of latitude, which go from east to west, and the center line of latitude, which occurs at 0 degrees. We call it the equator. We also draw lines on longitude, which go from north to south and are all of equal length. Now, it's a common misconception that the ancient Greeks thought the earth was flat, but this was simply not the case. The ancient Greeks knew the earth was spherical, or at least they had good reason to believe it was. Let's start thinking about geometry by cataloging some of the evidence the Greeks had available to them and deciding which pointed towards a spherical earth. First, the Greeks knew that the earth casts a circular shadow on the moon during a lunar eclipse. A lunar eclipse occurs when the earth gets between the sun and the moon, and the earth casts a shadow on the moon. The Greeks also knew that when traveling at sea, you can see farther--a greater distance--from the top of the mast than from the deck of the ship. That's why when you look at old ships, you often see a crow's nest high up on the mast where a spotter could look for land. Third, the Greeks knew that the moon and the sun appeared as disks in the sky. Finally, the Greeks also knew that the sun appears lower in the sky as you travel north. Now, this only applies for someone living in the Northern Hemisphere, but that's where the Greeks lived. Now, if we want to distinguish between a spherical earth and a disk-shaped earth, we have to use our evidence. Now, this is the evidence that was available to the Greeks, so I want you to think through each of these four points and decide for each one whether it best supports the idea that the earth is a sphere, that the earth is a disk, or maybe it supports both or neither of these. Go ahead and select one button for each of these four points. Now, this is a tricky quiz, and some of these you could actually debate the answer. So, don't worry if you don't get it right on the first try. Now, for this first option, I said it could support both of these theories. I could imagine a disk casting a circular shadow on the moon, and I could also imagine a sphere. Now, if you chose sphere, you have a good reason to argue with me, because if the earth were disk-shaped, it would be a pretty huge coincidence of the alignment of that disk for it to actually cast a circular shadow. Think about this one a little more if that wasn't clear, and we can talk about it in the forums. For the second point, when traveling at sea you can see farther from the top of the mast, I said this definitely, definitely points to the earth being a sphere. Let's think about why. Here's my zoomed drawing of a portion of the earth, and here's a boat--and exaggerated boat. It's much larger than any actual boat on the earth would be, but that's okay. In fact, this is a tool we're going to use a lot in physics. I exaggerate this drawing because I want to make a point clear. In my head when I'm thinking how a larger ship may allow a person to see farther, I'm going to exaggerate my test case in my head. Let's think of how far this guy could see-- the guy standing on the deck. He could clearly see something down here, no problem. He could see something over here. That's fine. But then this seems to be about as far as he can see. He can never see something over here, because, well, the earth is in the way. Now, this sailor--she's standing up on the top of the boat. This gives her a better angle and actually an unobstructed view towards this farther place on the earth. This clearly points towards a spherical earth, because on a flat disk-shaped earth, this wouldn't happen. Actually, both sailors would be able to see anything. The third option is about the sun and the moon, but we're not talking about the sun and the moon. We're talking about the earth, so I don't think this is really relevant. Again, you can make some arguments about this pointing towards sphere or disk and you should do that. Go to the forums and talk about this point, but I thought the best answer was neither. This fourth point--that the sun appears lower in the sky as you travel north-- I say best supports that idea that the earth is a sphere. And let's talk about why. We'll, here's our spherical earth. Well, it's supposed to be spherical. My drawing may not be the best you've ever seen. And here's the sun. In reality, the sun is much, much, much larger than the earth, and it's much farther away. For our purposes, this drawing will be fine. First, let's imagine this guy. He's standing pretty close to the equator. He's not very far north at all. For him, if he wants to see the sun, he can't be looking in this direction. he's got to look all the way up here. He's going to have to really crane his neck if he wants to look at the sun. We call this "high in the sky." Now, let's imagine his friend--his green-haired northern-dwelling friend. Well, for her to look at the sun it's not very difficult at all. She doesn't have to crane her neck. In fact, just from the geometry of where she's standing and the sun's position, the sun appears very low in the sky to her. This would be really close to the horizon, and she doesn't have to crane her neck at all. This also points toward a spherical earth. You wouldn't see any effect like this on a flat earth. From the data we had or from the data the Greeks had, some of it doesn't support either claim--the spherical or the disk hypothesis. But two of these points really seem to point towards a spherical earth. None point towards a disk-shaped earth, which means we can say with some certainty that even with the knowledge that the Greeks had, we can know that the earth is a sphere. Now, it's this last point--that the sun appears lower in the sky as we travel north that Eratosthenes will exploit to determine the circumference of the earth. Now, before we get to Eratosthenes' solution, let's talk about some previous attempts made to calculate the circumference of the earth. One famous thinker, Plato, estimated the earth's circumference at 400,000 stadia. What's a stadia? Well, a stadia is a unit that the Greeks used, and it's a unit of length. In physics, we'll often be using different units. It's not something we should be intimidated by. Actually, we don't even know what the Greeks meant when they say 1 stadium or 2 stadia, but our best guess is that one stadium is about equal to 185 m, which is a more familiar unit and one that we'll be using frequently in this class. Let's convert this number--400,000 stadia-- into a better unit, maybe kilometers. Now, one way to do that is to start by writing out what we were given. We know that we have a number, 400,000 stadia, and I'm being careful to writing the units, because the units are pretty relevant here. I'm going to write this as over 1, because I can always do that without changing the number. I'm then going to multiply this by a conversion factor. The conversion factor that I chose is the one I know-- that 185 m is equal to 1 stadia. The interesting thing about this is that stadia appears here, and it appears here--numerator and denominator--so we can cancel. We now have a number that's represented as meters-400,000 185 m. But that's not exactly what I want either. So, we'll need to use another conversion factor, and since I know that there are 1000 m in 1 km, I can write this conversion factor. Notice that I put meters in the denominator so that it will cancel with the meters in the numerator over here. So, we can see all of the units have canceled. All I'm left with are kilometers, and to carry out this calculation, I do 400,000 185 1/1000. That gives me a result of 74,000 km. Now, the true circumference--and this is the number you get if you type into a search engine the question what is the circumference of the earth--it's 40,000 km. Plato was wrong, but how wrong was Plato? How far off was he? Error is something we often want to talk about in physics, but how do we do it? Talking about error is something that we do all the time in physics. It's a very important skill to have, but it's not as obvious or straightforward as it may seem. Here, Plato's guess was 74,000 km. The true circumference is 40,000. Well, how are we going to state this error? There are a few options. We could say Plato overestimated the circumference by 34,000 km. We could say the true circumference is about half of what Plato calculated. Or we could say that Plato's guess was 85% larger than the true circumference. Now, all of these statements are true, and they all talk about Plato's error in making his guess about the circumference of the earth. Now, my question is which of these do you think is most informative? If we're trying to gauge the accuracy of Plato's guess, which of these three statements is the best quantification of Plato's error? I realize this is somewhat subjective. I think that this is the best answer. The problem with this answer, even though it may seem appealing initially, is that without knowing the true circumference, this number--34,000 km-- is sort of meaningless. What if the earth had a circumference of 10 bajillion km? Well, then an error of 34,000 km would be nothing in comparison to that. So, I really have to reference point for what this number means. This is actually a pretty good description of Plato's error-- that the true circumference is about half. But this one's a little better, because it gives me a little more precision. I have an actual number. Plato's guess was 85% larger than the true circumference. This is the best statement of error. The question is where did this number come from? How did we get at 85%? To calculate percent error is a pretty straightforward calculation. All we do is look at the absolute error. In this case, the absolute error was Plato's guess, 74,000, minus the actual circumference of the earth, 40,000. We'd look at this absolute error, and we'd divide by the true circumference. In this case, 40,000 km. When I do this, I get 74,000 - 40,000, so 34,000/40,000. The absolute error over the known circumference. We can see we can do some cancelling. We're left with 34/40, which reduces to 17/20 or 85%. Now, this is something we'll be doing quite frequently in this class when we want to talk about error. Now, Plato wasn't the only person to make a guess about the circumference of the earth. After Plato, another famous and brilliant thinker made a guess at the circumference of the earth. That was Archimedes. Now, Archimedes guessed that the earth had a circumference of 300,000 stadia. I want you to tell me how far off was Archimedes. What was his percent error? You can enter your number here, and you don't need to include the percent sign. Some additional information you may need to use to make this calculation is that the true circumference of the earth is 40,000 km. One stadium is 185 m, and 1 km is 1,000 meters. Enter your answer here. Well, let's see. Before I can make any error calculation, I'm going to need to get 300,000 stadia into kilometers. So, let's go through that process. To do this conversion, we write our original number, 300,000 stadia, multiply it by our first conversion factor in which the stadia cancel out, multiply by our second conversion factor in which the meters cancel out, and then we're left with 55,500 km. Now, we can calculate the error by looking at the absolute error, which is how far off Archimedes was. That's 55,000 - 40,000 and dividing that by the true circumference, which we know is 40,000 km. When we do this, we get 15,000/40,000, which is 15/40, which is 3/8, which is 37.5%. He was still closer than Plato, but quite a ways off. Then since both Plato and Archimedes were just guessing, I don't know how either of them had any confidence that the numbers they made were correct. Now, Plato and Archimedes were both really smart guys, but both of their guesses were quite far off from the true circumference of the earth. Let's go back to Syracuse, the birthplace of Archimedes, to learn more about some of the accomplishments he made over the course of his life. Archimedes was born about 2,300 years ago, and he made important contributions in math, physics, engineering, and astronomy. In physics, Archimedes was the first to explain the principle of the lever, which we will be talking about quite a bit in the third unit. He invented an ingenious device known as the Archimedes screw, which can be used to move water from low places to high. Many of his inventions were actually used to defend Syracuse, which in his day was frequently attacked. He created catapults and ballistas, which could fire projectiles huge distances when enemy ships attacked. He's even rumored to have constructed a heat ray, which used mirrors on the bluffs of Syracuse to focus the sun's rays on an attacking ship. In math, Archimedes was able to calculate the area under a parabola. This is a shape that we'll be using extensively in the next unit. He defined the Archimedes spiral, which you can learn more about in one of the challenge homework problems in this unit, but the discovery that he was most proud of was his proof that a sphere inscribed in a cylinder has exactly 2/3 the volume and the surface area of the cylinder. Now, despite being a really brilliant thinker, Archimedes estimate of the earth's circumference seems to have been a guess. And that's not the best way to do physics. Let's look at alternatives to guessing. One thing we could do to maybe improve on just a blind guess is we could have many people make guesses and then take the average. Or we could look at the geometry of a sphere and somehow find a clever way to calculate the circumference. We could also wrap a really long string around the earth and measure the length. Or we could determine the circumference of the moon and assume the earth is the same size. Of these four alternatives, which do you think is the best? Just choose your favorite answer. Now, I imagine you might have suspected that this was the best answer. Look at the geometry of a sphere and find a clever way to calculate this circumference. Now, you may have been tempted by this one, but, well, yes in science it is generally good to take a lot of data. That's a great habit to be in. But if every single piece of data you're taking is just a wild guess with no real reason to believe it, this isn't going to help. This one's a little impractical--wrapping a string around the earth-- and there's no reason to believe the moon and the earth have the same circumference, not to mention, how do we calculate the circumference of the moon? This leaves geometry, which means this is a job for math. Let's go to Florence to learn a little more about Eratosthenes' approach to to measuring the circumference of the earth. [Enrico Giusti, Curator, Garden of Archimedes] Eratosthenes was the first to measure the diameter of the earth. He used astronomical techniques to perform this task. The idea was that, in Summer Solstice, the sun was vertical on Syene, but it's more angled in Alexandria. And Eratosthenes measured the distance between Syene and Alexandria, and, from this and from the measure of the angles, was able to deduce the angle between the two cities and, therefore, the radius of the earth. The sun is vertical on the Summer Solstice, because Syene is on the Tropic, so you have no shadow. Actually, Eratosthenes noticed that, from the bottom of a pit, you could see the sun exactly vertical on your head. So, for this calculation, Eratosthenes used only a little trigonometry, and this was all. So even though Eratosthenes and Archimedes were both spending a lot of time thinking about the earth and, in fact, the earth's circumference, Erathothenes seemed to have an advantage. So because he was so well-traveled, Erathosthenes knew that, here in Syene, the sun's rays struck vertically on the Summer Solstice, which happens on about June 21st or the 22nd. He knew this because these rays of the sun actually made it all the way to the bottom of the well, which wouldn't happen if they were coming in at some other angle. He also knew that in a city a little bit north of Syene called Alexandria, the sun's rays did not strike exactly vertically. He knew this because he could hold a metal bar or any other straight object vertically so that it pointed directly into the ground at Alexandria. And if the sun were overhead, this shouldn't cast any shadow, but it did. It turned out this actually made a small shadow. Okay. So now we're getting somewhere. It looks like to solve this problem, we're going to need to really explore the geometry involved, and since we use geometry all the time in physics, now's a good time to learn or if you already know, review some of the basics, so let's back up a bit. So here we have our circular earth, which I'm trying to represent in 3 dimensions by showing the equator, and somewhere here, we have Syene, and somewhere here-- and I'm going to exaggerate this distance to make the drawing easier--we have Alexandria. Now to begin solving this problem, Eratosthenes did what physicists often do when they're tackling a really difficult problem. He made an assumption. And now the assumption that he made was that the sun was so far away, way, way, way off the screen, that when the sun's rays arrive at the earth, they're coming more or less parallel no matter where on the earth you are. Now these lines are parallel-- we assume they'll never touch-- and why was this a safe assumption to make? Well, let's take a look. Let's draw a little play version of the sun over here, and now this is totally separate from what's going on over here, and let's look at the sun's rays. Here they are, radiating outwards from the center from the sun, and you can tell that they're certainly not parallel. What happens is we get really, really, really far away from the sun like way out here, where we've got more rays like this. We can start to see that if we're really far away from the sun--maybe if our earth is over here-- well, in this neighborhood, the rays do look more or less parallel. They're not exactly parallel--they seem to be diverging a little bit--but maybe it's good enough for our purposes. We'll examine this more in the homework. Okay. So we have our rays arriving parallel at Syene and Alexandria. Now what? Now how am I supposed to figure out the circumference of the earth based on some parallel rays and the observation that they're striking vertically here at Syene. Well, before we jump into the calculation of the circumference, let's try and understand what's going on here first. Well, we've already talked about a person standing here in Syene--their shadow would be directly below them, because the sun's rays are striking vertically. Here in Alexandria, a person would have a tiny little shadow, and you can see that the angle from the head of the shadow to the head of the person-- this line actually follows the sun's ray. We'll be using that more later, but, for now, let's think. If this person started walking north, closer to the pole up here, what would happen to his shadow? Would his shadow lengthen as he walked north, or would it get smaller? And I said it would lengthen. We can see that as we walk toward Syene, it must get smaller, because, in the limiting case where we actually arrive at Syene, we have no shadow, so it seems reasonable that as we get further away, the shadow gets bigger. Now it's good to do these sort of qualitative thought exercises, but, okay, it gets bigger. How much bigger? Can we describe that mathematically? And this is a perfect example of encountering a problem in physics where we don't have the tools just yet to solve it, so let's build up some of those tools. Here we've zoomed in on the relevant portion of the globe. We can see Syene and Alexandria. Now, here the sun's rays strike vertically, which by vertical we mean perpendicular to the earth. Here at Alexandria, it doesn't strike vertically. If I drew a line perpendicular to the earth, I can see there's some angle here, which we don't know just yet. Now, we're trying to find the circumference of the earth. We found out that as we move further north from Alexandria this angle actually gets bigger and the shadow gets bigger as well. It seems like there's some relationship--hopefully a mathematical one-- between this angle and the circumference of the earth. Let's see if we can figure it out. I'm actually going to start by making a wish list. This wish list is going to contain everything that I wish I knew in order to solve this problem. Hopefully, we'll be able to come back to it later and address everything on it. I wish I knew this angle, and I'm going to call it the Greek letter α. We're dealing with the Greeks. Why not use the Greek letter? It's pretty common to call angles α in physics. Okay, so on my wish list, I wish I had that angle--the angle α. Now, what are we going to do with this angle α? Let's not even worry about how to calculate it yet. What are we going to do with it? Well, whenever I get stuck on a geometry problem, I start drawing lines, and they usually help me. Since a circle is involved here, or a sphere-- but we're only looking at a circular cross section of it-- drawing lines from the center is usually a good idea. So, I'm going to draw a line from the center to Syene and from the center to Alexandria. Okay, now there's still now a ton jumping out to me. Maybe I'll extend this line--that sometimes helps me see what's going on. Ah! Okay. Something just jumped out to me. This angle α shows up in more than one place. I'll tell you there are other angles on this drawing that are equal to α--maybe one, maybe more. I'm going to mark some contenders and why don't you tell me which ones are correct. What about this angle? Is that equal to α? Check that box if you think it is. Or what about this angle? Is that equal to α? This one? Or what about this one? For this quiz, just go ahead and check all of the angles that you think are equal to this one. Let's see. This one seems to be clearly not equal to α. This is a huge angle--greater than 90 degrees. But I do know that this angle is identical to α. The reason I know that--well, they're opposite each other, so that's always going to be the case that opposite angles are identical. But let's talk about why. If I examine this entire arc here, I know a straight line--well, I've made half of a circle here, so this is 180 degrees. This angle here is some α degrees-- I don't know what that is--which means that this angle marked in red must be 180 - α. Now, since this line here is also equal to 180 degrees, this segment of it is 180 - α. This segment must also be equal to α. But that's not so interesting. What I care more about is this angle here, which also happen to be equal to α. Again, we can talk about why. Let's extend this line and this line a little bit. Now we have these two parallel lines. The black line here is parallel with this purple line up here. We can go through this same sort of thinking to prove that this angle is α, this one here is 180 - α, this one has to be α, and then this one over here would be 180 - α. But this is what we care about. This angle here is identical to this angle here. Now we're making some real progress. Let me clean this up a bit so we can see what's going on. Now here we have the earth, Syene where the sun's rays strike vertically, Alexandria where they strike at an angle α, and this angle α is the same as this angle α, and we're hoping we can use that to calculate the circumference. Well, let's see. We know there's 360 degrees in a full circle. This alpha is going to represent some fraction of that 360 degrees-- maybe a half, maybe a quarter--we don't know yet. What we do know is that the ratio of this length-- I'm going to call this length d--to the full circumference of the earth must be equal to the ratio of this angle over 360 degrees. Now, I'll talk about that more in a second, but let's just write that down. The ratio of this distance d to the full circumference of the earth is also equal to the ratio of α to 360 degrees. A good way to confirm that this equation makes sense is let's think of some limiting cases. What if α were 0? That would be a really, really tiny angle covering absolutely no distance. 0/360 = 0. That would mean this length would have to be 0 as well. Good. Now, what if α were a full 360 degrees? What would d have to be for this formula to make sense? Check the appropriate box. Would d have to be 0, 1, or C--the circumference of the earth? That's right. It would have to be C. If α is 360 degrees, that means we're looking at the entire circumference. This d would be identical to C. Now, we're starting to see an equation emerge. This circumference somehow depends on this distance and this angle α. Now, I guess we'll have to add the distance to our wishlist, because we don't know that yet either. Before we go any further, let's just rewrite this equation. Let's solve it for C. I'm going to bring this C up here, and I'm going to bring these--α and 360--over to the other side. So, this is it. This is our answer for the circumference of the earth. We just need to know α and d. Now, let me just talk about this equation a little bit before me move on. First of all, there is nothing wrong with the way we wrote it before. This was a totally true expression that you could use to calculate the circumference. The reason I like this a little better is because it explicitly tells us this is the circumference. Then the way we've written it over here is nice as well. I see I have here 360/α. Now, these are both in degrees. When I do degrees divided by degrees, I get some unit-less number. This is just some multiplier that multiplies a number with a unit of distance. I can see just by looking at this equation that what I will get is a unit of distance. And I can see how it depends on this distance from Alexandria to Syene and the angle of the shadow. I think that's a nice way to show this equation. Now, let's just worry about this angle and the distance and keep track of our units as we do. This may require a new mathematical tool as well. Now, let's go to Florence Italy to talk to an expert in the field. The angles he measured by degrees, of course. [Enrico Giusti, Curator, Garden of Archimedes ] For the unit of length, he used the stadium, but he didn't measure with a rope or something, but he estimated the distance between Syene and Alexandria by the time that a camel would need to go from one city to another. Eratosthenes measure was rather accurate for the time. Even for modern standards, it was say about 10%. The source of error was essentially the estimation of the distance, because the angles he could measure with a good accuracy. All right. So, we timed a camel and got the distance d. Maybe not the most accurate of the odometers, but, hey. We'll talk about error later, and we'll go with this for now. The distance he measured was 5,000 stadia--we see that strange unit popping up again. Now we just have to get α, which will require trigonometry-- the study of triangles, specifically right triangles. Now, before we get jumping into the study of right triangles, let's just quickly show where they're going to show up in this problem. I mentioned before that if someone were standing here-- I'm going to represent someone standing by vertical black line-- he would cast a shadow like this. You see--straight line, right angle--90-degree angle--straight line, and we can imagine the sun's ray completing the triangle. Now, hidden in this right triangle are the mysteries of the circumference of the earth. Let's figure out what's going on inside a right triangle. Let's learn some trigonometry. Now, if you've already mastered trig, you don't have to watch this next part. But you may be entertained, and if you haven't mastered trig, you're in a for a treat, because this is one of the branches of mathematics that we use all the time in physics, and it's really fascinating. Let's start by looking at a right triangle. Isn't that nice with it's right angle marked by a square and it's three sides? Okay, what can we learn from this triangle? Let's first make a copy of it. Here is a copy, identical in every way-- same angles and same sides. We call that "congruent." That just means we have the same sides and the same angles. If this has a length of 7, this has a length of 7. If this has a length of 12, this has a length of 12. Likewise for the angles. What if this triangle were a little bigger? What if I were to expand it proportionally so as it grows it grows the same way in each direction the same amount in each direction? Well, clearly this is not identical to this triangle. These two are not congruent. But they are similar in some ways, so let's come up with a name to describe two triangles that are similar in such a way. In fact, let's call them similar. These are similar triangles, and they're so vital to doing physics. Now, each of these triangles has three angles. This one I've labeled 1, 2, and 3. This one 4, 5, and 6. Do they have anything in common? Are they equal? Is this statement true, that angle one equals 4, angle 2 equals 5, angle three equals angle 6? Check whichever of these statements are true about these two triangles. They're all true. Similar triangles have exactly identical angles. In fact, we could have rotated this triangle. We could have moved it around. We could make it bigger or smaller. As long as these three angles are identical to these three angles, it doesn't matter. These triangles are still similar. Let's do a quick little quiz. The quiz is which of the following triangles are similar to this triangle here? Just check all that apply. I said that this was a similar triangle and this was a similar triangle. Let's take a look why. If I rotate this one just right, make it a little bit smaller, I've got the exact same triangle I had before. Likewise for this one. If I move it, rotate it, and make it a bit bigger, I have the same triangle I had before. Since I can't do that with any of these three triangles, they are not similar. Now, I'm being a little cryptic here. What do I mean by "ratios?" Let's go back to our similar triangles to figure out what I mean. Now, I have two triangles here. They're similar because the angles match, but the sides are different. I'm going to label these sides a, b, c and these sides A, B, and C. You can see that even though these sides are all longer, there's some correspondence between A and side a. Likewise with C and c and B and b. But what exactly is that correspondence? What do these things all have in common? The fact is they have a ratio in common. What I mean by that is they're linked through ratios. If I look at the ratio side A to side B, I'm going to find that's exactly the same as the ratio of side a to side b. In fact, it doesn't matter how big or small I make this triangle, this equality will always hold true. And that's a really powerful mathematical tool that we can use. For example, let's say I didn't give you variable names here, but I gave you some actual numbers. So, 3 m, 4 m and 5 m are replacing our sides from before, and these are still unknown. But let's say I told you that--I don't know--side B was equal to 6 m. I can use this to calculate side C, because I know that C/B has to equal, well, the corresponding sides--4/3. More precisely 4 m over 3 m. Notice that when we do this, the units cancel out, so it doesn't even matter that we were using meters. We could have been using inches or stadia or furlongs or any unit we'd like. Now, I know this ratio--C/B--is equal to 4/3. But notice that I have one other piece of information. B is actually equal to 6 m, so let's write that in. Now if I want to solve for C, I multiply both sides by 6 m, and that gives me the following: C = 4/3 6 m, also known as 8 m. Okay, that wasn't so bad. We used the power of ratios to calculate an unknown side of a triangle, and this is a huge tool to have at our disposal. Can you do the same to solve for side A? How long is side A in meters. And you can just enter the number. You don't have to type in the m. Side A is 10 m. There's a variety of ways you could have done this. You could have compared A to B or A to C. In fact, you could have used some other tricks. You could have used the Pythagorean Theorem or compared across these triangles, but we're not going to worry about that right now. Now, let's do some practice. In this question we're using this triangle--5 m, 12 m, and 13 m on the sides, which makes this angle a 22.6 degree angle, and we don't know how to calculate that yet, but we will shortly. My question, before we begin calculating ratios is whether this triangle-- and all I've told you about this triangle is that it has a right angle here and a 22.6-degree angle here-- I want to know are these two definitely similar? What's the best answer? Yes, they are definitely similar, they could be similar, but maybe their not, or no they are definitely not similar triangles. The answer is that they must be similar. They absolutely have to be. The reason is that even though I only explicitly gave you two angles-- the fact that this is a right angle and that this is 22.6 degrees-- we also know that the angles of a triangle must sum up to 180 degrees. Well, what number adds to 90 and 22.6 to give you 180? That's 57.4 degrees. So, both this angle and this angle are 57.4 degrees. Since that means that these triangles both have the exact same three angles, they must be similar. Now that we've shown that 2 angles is really enough to prove similarity, let's answer some questions. If I told you that this side had a length of 18 m, what would the length of this side be in meters? Again, you don't need to put the m. I'll put that there for you. To solve this, I looked at the ratio--the ratio of this side to that side-- and compared it to this and that. Let's see--over here we have 5 m over 12 m, and I know that must, must, must be equal to whatever this side is--I'll call it x/18 m. Again, these units cancel out. This ratio 5/12 seems to be pretty important. I'm going to multiply both sides by 18, and when I carry out this multiplication, I find 7.5 m. Now, this ratio, 5/12--I'm going to put it in parentheses to show that it's important-- every single time we see a 22.6 degree angle in a right triangle I know that look at this side over that side will give me this ration 5/12. That may seem trivial, but it's actually deeply, deeply important. In fact, since we're going to be using these ratios so often, let's agree on a way to refer to the sides of a right triangle. If we have a triangle like this one here and we're looking at this angle, this is what we call our reference angle for now. We have three sides we can talk about. Now this one, the largest side, will always be called the hypotenuse-- so I'm going to abbreviate the hypotenuse with Hyp. This side here at the bottom is opposite the angle we're referring to so let's call that the opposite side. This side being next to the angle is adjacent. We're going to label that AdJ. Adjacent just means "next to," and one thing to be careful of is not to call this side the adjacent side. Even though, yes, it is next to this angle, we give this one the special name hypotenuse because it is the longest side. Now if we think back to our sides from before or side lengths. We have 5 meters, 12 meters, and a hypotenuse of 13 meters. What we now know is that anytime we have a similar triangle to this one-- a right triangle with an angle of 22.6 degrees here-- the ratio of opposite to adjacent will always, always be 5/12. This ratio is so important that we're going to give it it's own name. The first trigonometric ratio you're going to learn is the tangent, and the tangent of an angle is always equal to the opposite over the adjacent, which in this case would have been 5/12. I would write that by saying the tangent of 22.6 degrees equals 5/12, but that's not the only ratio we can talk about. We can also compare the opposite to the hypotenuse. When we do that, we're using what's called a sine, so I should note that I am making abbreviations here--tan for tangent sin for sine. Sine is just the opposite over the hypotenuse. Can you tell me what would the sine of 22.6 degrees be? Remember the tangent of 22.6 was 5 over 12, what's the sine? Enter in your answer here--you can enter it as a fraction with the numerator up here and the denominator down here. Well, sine is opposite just 5 meters over hypotenuse which is 13. Notice I didn't actually include the m when I was writing because it's a ratio and the unit will cancel out. The last ratio we have is the cosine abbreviated cos. This is equal to the adjacent side over the hypotenuse. The cosine of 22.6 degrees is 12 over 13, so here you have your trigonometric ratios. A common way to remember these three ratios is with the following mnemonic-- SOH CAH TOA--this means that the sine is equal to the opposite of the hypotenuse, cosine adjacent over hypotenuse, and the tangent is opposite over adjacent. If this helps you remember these three functions, that's great. Let's get some practice using these ratios. Here we have a right triangle. This angle is 37 degrees and the sides are 3, 4, and 5. I want to know what's the sine of 37 degrees, and it's the opposite over the hypotenuse so in this case 3/5. What about the cosine of 37 and the tangent of 37? The cosine is adjacent over hypotenuse. This is the adjacent side. This is the hypotenuse 4 over 5. And the tangent is opposite over adjacent just 3/4. Okay, you're doing great. You've really learned a lot of powerful mathematics in the last 20 minutes, so let's think how we're going to use this. It doesn't seem to make sense to keep calculating the sine of 37 degrees every single time we encounter a triangle with a 37 degree angle. This number is never changing. This sine will always be 3/5. What they did in Eratosthenes' day was calculate large tables of trigonometric ratios. They would find the sine, cosine, and tangent of a variety of angles and save it away for future reference--here's an example table of trigonometric ratios. In the columns, we have sine, cosine, and tangent and we have these values computed for, well just a few degrees here--40, 41, 42 degrees. In a better table, we'd have a larger range of angles and higher resolutions so we'd have 40.1 degrees, 40.2 degrees, and so on, but this will work for now. What this table allows us to do is something really amazing, so let's say we have a triangle and it's a right triangle with an angle here of 42 degrees and let's say we know this length its 1000 meters. How can I find this length? This is something we haven't done yet. What I can do is say, "Ah, I know that the ratio of this side to this side is totally independent of how long these sides actually are. " In fact, this side being adjacent to 42 degrees and this side being hypotenuse looks like we're going to want to use a cosine which compares adjacent to hypotenuse. In fact what I can say is that the cosine of 42 degrees which I can look up in my table is 0.743 must be equal to the adjacent side, I'll call that x for now, over the hypotenuse and the hypotenuse is the length of 1000 meters. This is a huge, huge tool to have because now all we have to do is multiply by 1000 to solve for x and we find that x is equal to 743 meters. Now I'm going to give you a shot. Let's call this unknown length y. Can you go through a similar set of steps may be you won't be using cosine this time to figure out how long is this side y. Let's see. How do we want to do this? Now, I'm looking at the side opposite this 42 degree angle. And I'm going to be comparing it to my known side of the 1000 meters. You also could've compared it to the x, but I'm going to do it this way. So, opposite and hypotenuse--it looks like I'm going to need sine. Okay. So sine of 42 degrees I know that equals 0.669. But I also know that it must equal the opposite over the hypotenuse. That's what the sine is and that equals y over 1000. Now, I can multiply both sides by 1000 just like I did before to get that y = 669 meters. Pretty cool. Now we're really getting to the point where we can start to calculate the circumference of the earth. Before we move any further, there's one more tool I think we should learn. What we've shown already is that if I know a single one of these angles and one of the sides as well, I can learn everything there is to know. I can learn the other angle by using the fact that they must add up to 180 degrees. I can find the other sides by using these Trigonometric Ratios. Great! But there's one thing we can't do quite yet, and that's to go from sides back to angles. So, let's say I gave you a right triangle and I told you this side was 231 meters and this side was 266 meters. All right, let's say now you want to know something about one of the angles. This angle for example. Now, initially this seems a bit tricky and it is. Well, what we can do is even though I don't know what this angle is yet, maybe i know something about this angle. For this angle, would it be easier for me to calculate the sine, the cosine, or the tangent of this angle? Check up here which should be easiest. Tangent, sine, or cosine? Since I have the side that is opposite and the side that is adjacent, remember this is adjacent and this is hypotenuse, that looks like tangent would be easiest. Why don't you go ahead and calculate the tangent of this angle? And I'm going to start calling it angle--I don't know--α. It seems like a good letter. And I know the tangent of a is equal to the opposite over the adjacent. And when I do this, I get about 0.8684 and that's really basically 0.869. We're very close to this. I can actually figure out, hey, this must be a 41-degree angle more or less. We're not at exactly 0.869 but close enough. Using this fact, I can say with confidence that alpha is a 41-degree angle. And now maybe you are seeing how we can use trigonometric ratios to calculate the angle at which the sun's rays are striking the earth in a particular location. We're making some serious progress. Before we move on, let's do one more practice problem. Here I've given you a right triangle and I told you two of the sides - 401.0 meters and 523.5 meters. Now, I want to know, using this table of trig values and what you know about Trigonometric Ratios, can you tell me what is α and enter your answer in degrees. You don't need to enter the degrees. We'll assume they're there. And the best way to solve this is to say well,"What sides do I know?" Relative to α, this is the adjacent side. This is the hypotenuse. If I look over here, I see that cosine uses the adjacent and the hypotenuse. Okay, so cos α is equal to 401.0 over 523.5. When I plugged that in, I get an answer of 0.766. Now I can go back to my table of cosine values and see--oh hey, 0.766 that's the cosine of 40 degrees. Alpha must have been 40 degrees. Great work. This is a lot of material we've just covered. We've learned the first two weeks of any normal trigonometry class, and you've done it all just now--I'm very impressed. Let's quickly review what we learned. Well first, we learned about similar triangles. Two triangles are similar if their angles are identical even though their sides don't have to be the same length. And we've learned that these triangles have many special properties. One really important property is that the ratio of side lengths are the same for two similar triangles. What this means is that if I have a right triangle with a 40-degree angle here, I can immediately tell you the ratio of this side to that side or this one to that one. And that's a very powerful tool. In fact, these ratios are so powerful that we gave names to them - sine, cosine, and tangent. And we can remember what those names mean by SOH, CAH, TOA. Sine is opposite over hypotenuse, cosine is adjacent over hypotenuse, and tangent is opposite over adjacent. Finally, we learned that we can go back and forth between sides and angles and side lengths and angles or maybe even degrees. And this is something that we'll be doing frequently throughout the course. Let me say good work. This is a huge accomplishment learning this much already. Now, let's put it to use and figure out what the circumference of the earth is. Now, we can go back to the original problem--the thing we've been trying to solve this whole unit. As you remember we have the sun's rays striking perpendicular to the earth here at Syene. We've seen that these rays all came in parallel like what's around here and here in Alexandria which is north of Syene, the rays no longer strike the earth perpendicular to the surface of the earth. They strike at this angle α. We showed before that must be equal to this angle α as well. And by comparing the full angular measure of the circle 360 degrees to this portion α, we will define that if we knew d and we knew α, we can calculate the circumference of the earth. We got d by timing a camels distance from Syene to Alexandria. Now we just need to find α. To determine this angle α, let's imagine what it would be like to be standing here in Alexandria. Well, if I were actually standing there, I can now say the earth is flat because I don't notice the curvature of the earth on a daily basis and I can imagine sticking some sort of pole into the ground. And maybe I know the length of this pole. Now I know the sun's rays are coming in at a certain angle. I'm going to draw the rays in red just to make it a little easier to see. So here comes the sun's rays, you can tell they're being blocked by the pole in some places. So when the pole blocks the sun's rays, we get a shadow--here's the pole shadow. And now you can see we're almost there. You can see the right triangle that's emerged. We have the sun's ray that just barely missed the edge of the pole, we have the shadow of the pole, and we have the pole itself forming a right triangle. Now from this drawing, you can actually see that the angle we called alpha. If I imagine making a perpendicular line here perpendicular to the earth, this is the angle we called alpha. There's no problem. That's also equal to this angle α and now we're almost there. So here's our triangle with three sides--one, two, three, opposite, adjacent to α, and hypotenuse and we just need to know what this angle is. Now that we have a right triangle, we just need to consult the trigonometric table and we should be able to figure out what alpha is and what's the circumference of the earth is. So we set up the experiment. We have our vertical bar with its shadow and what Eratosthenes data may have looked like with the length of the bar would have been something around 1 meter and the length of the shadow about 0.126 meters which is 12.6 cm. He, of course, has access to his trigonometric tables and here's a portion of one such table. Now, can you put yourselves in Eratosthenes' shoes and tell me what is the value of alpha? Well, we have a right triangle--we know something about the side opposite α-- that's the length of the shadow--and the side adjacent to α--that's the length of the bar. Opposite and adjacent are the tangent, so that tells us the tangent of α is equal to the opposite 0.126 over the adjacent, just 1.00, and that's just equal to 0.126. Now, I know that the tangent of this angle is 0.126, I can go into my table of trig values, and I see--hey, that corresponds to an angle of 7.2 degrees. Now for the moment of truth--calculating the circumference of the earth in the same way that Eratosthenes did. Now we have this data. The important stuff seems to be this angle alpha. This distance d which was the distance from Syene to Alexandria and that's 5000 stadia and remember 1 stadium was equal to 185 meters. We have this equation which we found out from the geometry of the earth, and now I want to know can you tell me in kilometers what is the circumference of the earth. Well, to solve this, we can plug in C equals 360 over alpha, which was 7.2 degrees times D, which is 5000 stadia. When we did this out with the degree is cancelled--we get a value for the circumference of 250,000 stadia. Now we're still not done because we need to convert--we're going to take our number 250,000 stadia times 185 meters in 1 stadium and we want to convert that to kilometers so we'll multiply it by 1 kilometer for every 1000 meters. When we do this, we get a final answer of 46,250 kilometers. Amazing! We did this all just with some shadows, some basic knowledge of geometry, and a little bit of trigonometry that we have to learn as well Not only is it amazing that we could calculate the circumference using such basic knowledge, but the skills that we gained in doing so are skills we used throughout this course--congratulations! Now, let's see the experiment in action. I'm in Syracuse with my assistant Roberta and apparently most of Syracuse as well. We were going to do the experiment we've been learning about--Eratosthenes' experiment where he determines the circumference of the earth measuring shadows. All you're going to need to do to perform this experiment is get some help. Thank you Roberta. You're welcome. You're going need a string or some sort of straight stick, a weight on the end of that string to make sure that it's truly vertical and some sort of measuring device. Now my measuring device is a ruler and it's marked in inches. You might have one marked in centimeters, but like we mentioned before the only thing relevant in this experiment is the ratio and the units don't matter. It's really not important. Now let's go ahead and make our first measurement. Can you just put it this way--perfect--and down so your thumb touches it--perfect, perfect. And the length here is 42 inches. Now without changing anything, without moving anything. Rebecca is holding perfectly still. Gracia! I'm going to make the next measurement which is that of the shadow and I get a result of 8-1/2 inches. Now you'll notice over here, it's not really clear where the shadow begins and ends. This is uncertainty in my measurement and that's something we're going to have to deal with. When you do the experiment at home, you'll have uncertainty as well. In fact, uncertainty is inherit to any measurement you make in physics. We'll talk about that later but thank you very much Rebecca. You're welcome. Now the answer we just calculated was very elegant. We used the nice assumptions that the sun's rays arrive in parallel and the earth is a sphere. We made some nice calculations involving the geometry and the trigonometry that we learned but at the end of the day, if our answer doesn't stand up to reality, we need to start over. Now let's see, how did Eratosthenes do against reality? Well, his calculated circumference was 46,250 kilometers and we compare that to the 40,000 kilometers that we currently know is the actual circumference of the earth. Clearly he was off, but how much was he off by? Can you think back to the beginning of the unit and tell me what was Eratosthenes' percent error in this calculation? And again we compute the difference here which is 46,250 - 40,000 or 6,250, over 40,000 and of course, we have to multiply by 100 to make it a percent and we get an answer of 15.6 or I'll just call it 16% error. Now 16% seems like a lot. This experiment like every experiment ever done in physics is subject to error. Now the tricky thing is identifying and quantifying the sources of our error. Now in this situation, we're really lucky. We have a known reference number to compare to. We know the earth had a circumference of 40,000 kilometers so when we make some calculations and get an answer that's different, we can immediately quantify how wrong we were. But when Eratosthenes was doing this experiment, he didn't now that. He had no idea what the actual circumference was and so what have been his benefit to keep track of error as he was going along--so let's do that for this experiment. It seems like a smart thing to do first would be to go through and try and determine what are the potential sources of error in this experiment. Well, first, our whole experiment was based on the assumption that the earth is a sphere. We also used the assumption that the sun's rays arrive at the earth parallel in different locations, and we justified this by saying that the sun is so far away that its rays must be coming nearly parallel. Next, we had the fact that the sun's rays were vertical in Syene. We also had to measure the angle of the sun's rays in Alexandria. This is the angle that we called alpha. And finally, we are to measure the distance between Syene and Alexandria. Now, these are the five steps or assumptions that I identified for this problem. There could be others that you may have identified, but these are the ones that I think are most important. If any of these were incorrect, so for example, if the earth wasn't really a sphere, well that would throw off our entire geometry calculation. Likewise, if the sun's rays didn't arrive exactly in parallel, or if they weren't exactly vertical in Syene? Any problem in any of these steps would of course lead to error, which would propagate through our experiment and show up as an error in our circumference calculation. Let's go through each of these potential sources of error and quantify how much we think it may have contributed to the error of our final calculation. Step 1, earth is a sphere. It turns out the earth isn't a perfect sphere. It's actually what's known as an oblate spheroid, which is a much cooler name, but all it means is that it's a little fatter around the middle. It turns out that this difference is so, so tiny that this one really introduced any actual error into our calculation barely even measurable, so I'm going to call this potential source of error as negligible. Next, we've seen that the sun's rays arrive parallel which means that the rays would strike Syene, actually strike parallel to those striking Alexandria. It turns out this is not exactly true. The rays are not perfectly parallel. For a homework problem, you'll actually calculate how much error this will contribute to our measurement of the circumference or to our calculation of the circumference. But, I'll tell you for now that it's negligible. Next, we had this idea that the sun's rays are arriving vertically in Syene. Now, this seems like it could be a potential source of error. Now, let's think of how Eratosthenes came to this conclusion that the sun's rays were perfectly vertical in Syene on the summer solstice. Now before we jump into this third potential source of error, let's talk about a better way to do trigonometry. It is nice to put ourselves in Eratosthenes shoes, but computers are nice too and can save us quite a bit of time. So far, the way we've been doing trigonometry is--let's say we wanted to calculate the cosine of 44 degrees. We find our angle in our trig table and we could read off that the cosine of 44 degrees equals 0.719. That works. What if I want to know the cosine of 44.1279 degrees? Well, maybe I'd find a really good trig table, but it would be a pain to use and we're living in the 21st century--let's get computers to do this work for us. I want you to go to Google and type in the following: cos (44 degrees). Go ahead and do that and then enter in here what Google tells you to may be 7 decimal places. And the answer is 0.719--just like we saw before, but now we have additional precision and Google tells us 3398--this is a better answer. It's a more precise answer than this, and I could've typed anything in here. I could've typed 44.791 if I want. This is a much easier way to do trig by using either a calculator or a computer. And in fact, we can go the other way. What if I told you I have an angle and the tangent of that angle is 0.932? Maybe a way to write that would be tangent of some angle I don't know that is equal to 0.932. Well, you've had some practice in this, you could go to your table, look up tangent 0.932 and see if the angle we're talking about is 43 degrees. What we're doing here is sort of the opposite of computing a tangent, and instead of looking at an angle and calculating the tangent, we're looking at the tangent in calculating the angle. So what we're doing is the inverse tangent. It's the exact opposite of taking a tangent. The way we specify this inverse tangent is we say arctan or sometimes tan to the -1. I'll be using arctan for now--so if you went into Google right now and you typed arc tangent or arctan of 0.932--and remember this is exactly the same step as looking up into the trig table. There is an angle, this tangent is 0.932--arctan will find that out. If we enter this into Google arctan of 0.932 what we'll get is the following answer: 0.75 something radians and this is strange. This is a unit you may have never seen before or maybe you have but this is just another way of measuring angles. The radian is another unit just like the stadium is now the unit of distance. Now this is a fine measure, radians is a wonderful unit but it's not the unit we want. Actually Google will allow you to specify the unit you want. I'd like you to go to Google and type in arctan 0.932 in degrees. This will tell Google--Hey, I want the answer in degrees not radians and enter in the result you get here. Just go to two decimal places should be fine. The answer that I got is 42.98 and that's in degrees. You can see this is very close to the 43 degrees that we saw before but there actually some rounding errors going on here--so this is a more precised answer. The angle whose tangent is 0.932 is 42.98 degrees. Just a little more practice and then we can jump back into our error analysis. My first question--what is the sine of 30 degrees, and you can type this into Google and enter your answer here. And this is a nice easy one. The sine of 30 degrees is exactly one-half, 0.5. And you can get this by just typing sine of 30 degrees, and you need to specify degrees; otherwise, Google will think you mean radian and you can just type that right into your web browser. Next, what's the tangent of 79 degrees, and you can round this to two decimal places. The answer is 5.14 Now let's get a little trickier. What angle has a sine equal to 0.62? Or put in other way, the sine of some angle--I'm not sure which one yet--is equal to 0.62. What is that angle in degrees? You can enter here and again, just round to two decimal places. The answer is 38.32 degrees. Now for a slightly trickier one--what is α in this drawing? Here we have a right triangle--I do need two side lengths--4 and 7, and I want to know what is α. Enter your answer here in degrees with two decimal places. This one's a little trickier. First, I have to make the intermediate step of realizing, hey, I know what the tangent of α is. The reason I know this is because I know what the opposite side is. It's 4. I know what the adjacent side is--7. I know tangent relates those two, so I can say tangent of this angle α--I don't even know what that is yet, but I know it's equal to 4/7. I know that it's possible to go back and forth between angles and these ratios. I can type into Google "arctan 4/7 in degrees." I don't want my answer is radians. The answer is 29.74 degrees. Now, this was a lot we just went over. It's one thing to be doing this with tables, but now we've introduced this new notation, this new word arc tangent, arc sine, arc cosine. If you're feeling comfortable with all this, you should move on. But if you're still a little shaky on sines and arctangents, go back and rewatch whatever is helpful to you. If you still have any questions after that, be sure to visit the forums, and there will be plenty of people, myself included, who are there to help. Now, back to the potential sources of error--the fact that the earth is a sphere, well we decided that's not 100% true that the earth is so close to spherical that any error introduced is negligible. We also decided that the sun's rays don't arrive exactly in parallel and that we're going to do more about this in the homework, but the error this introduces turns out to be negligible. Let's talk about point 3--do the sun's rays actually arrive vertically in Syene? Now to answer this question, let's think back to how Eratosthenes came to this conclusion. Eratosthenes had come to this conclusion by hearing that if you look down the well, not necessarily a poorly drawn well, but a well in Syene on the summer solstice you could see the very bottom--what this meant was that the sun's rays must have been striking in such a way that a ray which entered the top of the well can make it all the way to the bottom, and so his conclusion was that the sun's rays are striking vertically. Now let's see if this is necessarily the case. Sure, a ray that comes in vertically will make it all the way to the bottom of the well. No problem. But it's that the only ray that would go from top of the well to the bottom--no. What about this one--this ray also illuminates the bottom of the well and it comes in at a slight angle. Now, let's look at what the maximum possible angle could be that allow one of these rays to enter the top of the well and still illuminate the ground below. And now it would be this ray, if we try to make this angle any steeper, it wouldn't actually hit the bottom of the well or it would hit somewhere along the wall. How can we calculate this angle? Well let's make some assumptions about the depths of the well and the width of the well that Eratosthenes was looking at. Now, I'm no well expert but I'm going to assume that this well had a depth of 40 meters. Those of you who know more about wells than I do can tell me if this is a reasonable depth for a well. I'm going to assume that the width of the well--from this edge to this edge--was about 1 meter. Now, we have the dimensions of our well. We have an extreme case solar ray coming down and just barely illuminating the bottom of the well. Now I wonder, what angle does this correspond to? We know it's not quite vertical. Using your new trig skills, I bet you can tell me what this angle α is that this ray is making with the vertical. Enter your answer in this box, round it to 2 decimal places and remember Google is your friend. This wasn't the easiest question, because even though there was some hint that you had to use trigonometry, it might not have been completely clear what triangle we're talking about. This is the triangle I was looking at, this one in purple. And here, it turns out the side opposite alpha is the width of the well, which is 1 meter, and the side adjacent to alpha is the depth of the well, which is 40 meters. So once again, as often happens in nature, we were able to find a right triangle even though it wasn't totally obvious at the start of the problem that it existed. Okay, so we have a right triangle. I know the opposite and the adjacent, which means I'm going to use tangent, and I'm going to say the tangent of alpha is equal to 1/40. Now I want to know what's alpha. To figure this out, I'm going to type into Google arctan (1/40) in degrees. And the answer I get is 1.4 degrees. So this points to some error in the measurement. It looks like we could have been off by as much as 1.4 degrees in either direction. The sun's ray could have been coming like this, or it could have come like that. That's certainly an appreciable error since the angle we had been dealing with before was only 7.2 degrees. But how does this error in angle correspond to an error in calculated circumference? We need to go from this angular error to an error in circumference, which means we have to do what's called propagate this error through our calculation. Let me remind you what the equation we used was. It was that the circumference was equal to 360 over the angle we were talking about before, which we called alpha, times d, where d was the distance from Syene to Alexandria. This alpha isn't exactly the same as this alpha over here, but it turns out that an error here results in a corresponding error here. The question is how do we figure out how a change in alpha changes our circumference? There's many ways to do this. Some involve some calculus. But a really simple way to do it is just to calculate our extreme cases. And what do I mean by that? Before, the alpha we used in this calculation was equal to 7.2 degrees. Due to this new error, this new angular error, we don't necessarily trust this number. We know it's about right, but it could be off by plus or minus-- and this is the symbol for plus or minus--1.4 degrees. So that tells us I know that alpha is near 7.2, but I'm not sure exactly where it is. It's within 1.4 degrees. So the smallest alpha could be--I'll say alpha min--would be 7.2 - 1.4, which would be 5.8 degrees. Alpha max would be 7.2 + 1.4, which would be 8.6 degrees. That's our range of possibilities for alpha, and that's going to correspond to a range of possibilities for the circumference. In fact, let's use alpha min and use alpha max to calculate the circumference again. I want you to enter in 2 new calculations for the circumference, and I want you to use the d we know from before, which is 5000 stadia-- that's the distance between Syene and Alexandria-- and remember the stadium is 185 meters, and I want you to use alpha min to calculate a circumference and use alpha max to calculate a circumference. And enter those numbers here. Remember we want to keep our answers in kilometers. Using alpha min, I get a value of 57,400 kilometers. I've done a little bit of rounding. And using alpha max, I get a value of 38,700 kilometers. Remember the true value of the circumference is about 40,000 kilometers, which is between these 2 numbers. So actually, using this angular error, we can actually explain away why Eratosthenes made the mistake that he did-- maybe. In reality, Syene is only about half a degree north of what's called the Tropic of Cancer. And the Tropic of Cancer is the location where the sun's rays truly are vertical during the summer solstice. Being half a degree off actually wouldn't be enough to account for Eratosthenes's error, so we should keep doing our calculation. Anyways, this was an estimate based on this toy model of a well. And since I can't go back in time and look down the same well that Eratosthenes did, I have no idea of knowing if this estimate is correct. The last thing I want to talk about before we move on to our next potential source of error is quantifying how much this angular error affected our measurement or our calculated circumference as a percentage. We know that if there's no angular error, our circumference that we calculate is 46,250 kilometers. We already did that. That's the calculation that Eratosthenes made. What about when there's error involved? Well, we've made these 2 calculations as well. And I just want you to tell me percentage-wise how much different is this number from 46,250 and likewise for this one. You can enter your answers here and just round to 1 decimal place. The answer is 24.1% up here and 16.3% here. This means that our angular error, this 1.4 degrees can introduce an error in our calculations, can skew our calculation by as much as 24%. Going the other way, it would only skew our error by 16%. Let's go back. We can say that the sun's rays being vertical in Syene, that's not entirely true. The way we made the calculation, that's about a 20% error. We saw it was 16% on one side and 24% on the other, so I'm just going to say it's about 20%. We're just trying to get a big picture idea of where our error is coming from here. What about measuring the angle of the sun's rays in Alexandria? How much error would we get from this measurement? Let's think about how we did the calculation. We put a vertical rod upright in Alexandria and allowed the sun to shine on it, which caused a shadow down here. By measuring the length of this shadow and the length of this rod, we could calculate this angle, which we called alpha. So the only real place for error in this calculation-- well, there's 3 places for error in this calculation. The first is making sure the rod is vertical. By simply hanging a weight from a string, you can assure that something is vertical because you know that weight will always point straight down, straight to the center of the Earth. So this wasn't really something to worry about. The next comes from measuring the rod itself, measuring the length of the rod. We know that nothing can be measured to exact precision, but they had pretty good measuring devices even 2,000 years ago, so I don't think there's much error introduced in measuring the length of this rod, and I think we can safely say it's negligible and not worry about it. Finally, we have measuring the length of the shadow. When you try to do this experiment at home-- and that will be one of the homework assignments; we're all going to collect this data together-- you'll find that measuring a shadow length isn't completely trivial. In fact, shadows are a little fuzzy. It's hard to tell where they begin and where they end. So actually, there is some error here. Let's say it's about equal to--I don't know--1 centimeter, which is 1/100 of a meter. If we're talking about a shadow whose length is 100cm, that would be a 1% error. 1cm is 1% of 100. I want to know how can we best reduce the percentage error with the measurement of the shadow. Should we make the measurement many times? Should we use a really, really big rod? Or should we use many rods of varying length? Which of these would best reduce the percent error? This one may not be obvious. The best way to reduce the percent error is actually to use a giant rod. And what's the reason for that? The way we calculate percent error is by comparing the absolute error to some true value. Since we have a fixed absolute error here of 1cm, that error doesn't grow even if the shadow gets longer and longer and longer. This is just the fuzziness associated with measuring a shadow. We have a fixed 1cm up here. To make this percent error as small as possible, we want to divide that 1cm by as large a value as we can. And the true value of the shadow's length, we can make that larger and larger and larger by just using a bigger and bigger and bigger rod. We'd determined that measuring the angle of the sun's rays in Alexandria can be done as precisely as we like, so this error is negligible, which is interesting. You may not have thought that this actual measurement seems more difficult than just verifying something that's vertical, but it turns out this was the negligible one and this could introduce about 20% error. Next, we have been measuring distance between Syene and Alexandria and what is there to say about this one? To estimate this distance between Syene and Alexandria, surveyors at that time would time camels using some assumptions based on how quickly a camel would walk, they would infer a distance between these two cities. Now, you can probably tell this is not the best way to measure distance. Maybe his camel walk in a perfectly straight line at constant speed and the measurement went perfectly, but somehow, I doubt that. In fact with all the zigzagging and the camel speeding up and slowing down, I'd estimate the uncertainty here to be about 10-20% and this is truly a pretty large source of error. An error in distance measurement of 10-20%, well, let's just say 15% for simplicity sake. We need to propagate this through and determine how much this affects our circumference measurement--so let's go back to our equation. And the circumference is 360/α times this distance d. And this distance has an uncertainty of 15%, which means that instead of being 5,000 stadia, actually 5,000, plus or minus 750 stadia--so we can do we did last time and say well dmax the maximum possible value for d would be 5750 stadia, dmin would be 4250 stadia, and we can calculate circumferences based on that and then use those calculations to determine the percent error. We note that using d average, so just using this 5000 stadia, results in the circumference of 46,250 kilometers. Now, I want you to fill in these blanks. What is the circumference if we used dmax, so that would be 5000 stadia plus 750 stadia? Once you've calculated that, how far off percentage-wise is that from 46,250? Do the same thing for dmin, and as a reminder 1 stadium is 185 meters, and α, which is this angle here in the equation is 7.2 degrees. Go ahead and fill this out. And these are the numbers you get. Interestingly enough, these both correspond to a difference of exactly 15% from this number. It's not a coincidence. It has to do with the fact that d shows up here in the numerator and there's no exponent on d. Well, there's a little 1 hidden there, but we don't need to write that. This is getting into some serious error analysis, which is a really fascinating topic and requires a little bit of calculus to get into, but in future classes you can learn about this in more detail. For now, it's enough to know that our 15% error in distance measurement corresponds to a 15% error in circumference calculation. All right. So we've looked at all 5 sources of error. Some we've determined were negligible, some had quite an effect, and you've really learned a lot in this unit. You've learned not only how to do basic trigonometry, which itself is a powerful tool, you know how to go outside on a sunny day, ideally near the solstice, and calculate the circumference of the Earth. That's such an amazing tool. It may not be a skill you use every day, but certainly impressive. For doing that, I say congratulations. Now, I recommend you get started on the homework because one of the homework questions has you do this exact same experiment at home. You're going to enter your data online, and together as a class we'll amass a gigantic data set. In the next unit, we'll be able to analyze that data set and calculate as a class the circumference of the Earth. In the next unit, we're going to be on location in Pisa, where we're going to look at the Galileo motion experiments and learn a little bit about how objects move. Stay tuned. Buon giorno! We're here in Pisa, Italy, where Galileo Galilei is rumored to have completed some of this famous experiments on motion including dropping objects from the leaning tower. In this unit, we're going to complete some of those experiments ourselves, and we're going to derive the laws of motion that Galileo Galilei figured out in the 16th century. Before we start answering the question of "What is motion?" or "How do we describe it?", let's quickly go over why we want to learn about motion at all. Well, first, understanding motion gives you an incredible predictive power. Whether you want to know the path that a soccer ball takes as it flies to the goal or the speed of the rollercoaster as it goes through a loop, you will need to know about motion. Second, this is an important tool to have in your physic tool belt. The math and the physical techniques we used will be used throughout the class. Finally, and this is the most important reason for me personally, is to solve one of the nature's puzzles. There're so many facets of nature out there that are just begging to be understood, and motion is one of them. Galileo Galilei did a lot to help us learn about motion, but before we jump into his contributions, let's talked a little bit about Aristotle, whose concept of motion was widely accepted until Galileo came on the scene. To get some of these historical contexts, let's go to Florence, Italy, where we'll talk to Professor Thomas Settle, an expert in the field of Galileo, about some of this context. He, like a lot of other people in that period—1560s or 1570s— had already come to question a number of the Aristotlean assumptions about things. Now according to the doctrine bodies fell with a speed according to their weight— this is where Galileo starts. Then he began wondering about, well, how do actually bodies move and can we tell. I used to, in front of my class, take a couple of balls and drop them in front of the class. And I'd ask the members of the class, "What do you see?" And most of the students coming from engineering or science said, "We see ball or bodies accelerating in free fall." I would come back at them eventually and say, "Now, I didn't ask you what you were told you were ought to see. What do you actually see?" And if you try it, you'll find that you don't see much. You see the hands holding the ball. You see the hands opening. And you hear a thump or a couple of thumps on the floor, but you don't see anything. And this in part is one of the points that Galileo starts. According to Aristotle, objects all fall at a constant speed, and that speed depends on their weight, and when Aristotle says "constant speed," what he means is that the instant you release the ball, it's already traveling at the same speed that it will hit the ground. Okay. So, objects fall at constant speed and that speed is proportional to the mass. Now, what does this mean—speed proportional to mass? It means that if you double the mass of an object you double the speed. If you triple the mass, you triple the speed. We can write this proportionality with this funny-looking symbol here. In fact, she looks a little bit like the alpha we saw in the first unit. Now, we can use this proportional relationships to make mathematical calculations. Let's say we have two objects, a one-kilogram and a two-kilogram mass. If this falls with a certain speed S1, this one will follow the speed S2. The way we can use this proportionality relationship to a make calculation is in the following line. We say that the ratio of speed S1 to S2 is equal to the ratio of the masses, and we can say that because they are proportional. In this simple example, I just want you to tell me, if S1 is 2 meters per second and these are the masses, what is S2? Well, we can just plug in here. S1 and m1 are 2 m/s and 1 kg, s2 is unknown, and m2 is 2 kg. Well, we can just solve for s2. When we carry out the Algebra, we find it's equal to 4 m/s, just like we'd expect--double the mass, double the speed. With these two completely different beliefs--Aristotle who says that objects fall at a constant speed, and Galileo saying that objects gain speed as they fall, how do we reconcile these different opinions? Well, we're scientists. We look at the evidence. Let's look at two pieces of evidence in particular. First, we have this idea that a mass dropped from a greater height leaves a greater impact, and you could try this yourself. Go outside and drop a brick from just barely off the ground and then drop it again from higher off the ground. You'll see that it'll make a bigger dent if you drop it from higher. Now, Professor Settle mentioned earlier how difficult it is to actually see anything when you drop an object. Well, that's true except for when you drop something like a feather, and when you do that, you can see that it really does tend to just drift down at more or less a constant speed. Now, for each of these points, I want you to select one of these buttons. Do this piece of evidence work in favor of Aristotle's belief or Galileo's and likewise for this one so you should check two of these buttons. Well, this first point seems to point to Galileo, but the second—feathers fall at constant speed— well, that's exactly what Aristotle said—we are in a conundrum. Galileo has already looked at the evidence and he's still confused. That leaves him only one course of action—he has to do experiments. Now, Galileo had his work cut out for him. The idea that objects fall at a constant speed had been around for almost 2,000 years by the time Galileo came around. This idea had a lot of, as we say in physics, inertia. It is going to be very difficult to change. If we were able to get the fact that feathers fall at constant speed, Galileo had a pretty difficult task ahead of him. Now Galileo had a proposal for why feathers do actually fall at constant speed. He felt that some resistance provided by the air would actually slow objects down. And for lightweight objects like feathers, this has a huge effect and causes them to fall at more or less a constant speed. Now, the rumors that Galileo's experiments involved him dropping objects off of the leaning tower of Pisa— it's quite possible that he did but it seems unlikely that he would have gotten good results since, as we talked about before, the fall motion is just too fast. Which brings us to the question--how can we slow motion down? This seems like an essential aspect to doing any meaningful experiment with motion. So, should we drop objects through water or some other liquid to slow them down? Should we roll objects at inclined planes? An inclined plane is just another word for a ramp. Or should we still drop our objects through the air but just attached a parachute to them to slow them down? I want you to tell me the best answer and there is only one here—so this may require some thought. Keep in mind some of the points made over here when you're answering this question. The best answer is to roll objects down inclined planes. The reason why this isn't a great answer is because attaching a parachute is essentially doing the same thing as we do when we drop a feather. We're just making a big bag to catch that air and to slow the object down artificially. We're not observing its somehow natural motion. Same thing when we drop an object through water or another liquid. That water is basically doing the same thing as the air would be doing when we drop a feather, but it's having an even greater effect. If we want to make air resistance negligible, the thing to do is to roll objects down inclined planes. Professor Settle, what do you have to say about this? He eventually decides to try rolling balls down an inclined plane. His first experiment, so-called, on an inclined plane, he is still looking for a proposed uniform motion. What he begins to find is that he is never getting uniform motion. What he's getting always is acceleration. So he's finding acceleration. It seems that this experiment is actually making some progress in disproving Aristotle. You may be saying--big deal, of course objects accelerate when they fall, but this was not common knowledge at the time. Now, you may be wondering what can we learn from rolling balls down the hill. I mean we all know what it looks like when a ball rolls down the hill right? Well, let's see. This quiz is designed to just test your intuition, and I confessed I would not have passed this test before I actually learned how to mathematically quantify motion. So, let's say we have a ball, and we released it, and at the same instant that we released it we start the timer. So, the timer begins at zero seconds and we release it at this position here. So, after 1 second, it's rolled this far. So, given that we now have a ball that's released from rest here and after 1 second is here so I want to know where will the ball be at t = 2 seconds. It's gone from here to here in 1 second. After 2 seconds, do you think it will be here or here or maybe it will be all the way over here. Make your guess by selecting the appropriate button. The answer is that after 2 seconds, the ball will be right here. Now, where would the ball be at 3 seconds? Indicate your best guess. After 3 seconds, the ball will be right here. Well, if you got those result, I am very impressed. You have an amazing intuition about the motion of objects. If, like me, you didn't get this question right the first time you tried, let's look at this as a motivation for why we want to quantify motion. Before we jump into the nitty-gritty of quantifying motion, we should probably agree on some terms first. Let’s begin to answer this question, “What is motion?” Well, let’s say motion is changing position. If something’s position or location is staying the same, well, it’s not moving. So, position is an important concept, important enough to be written in red. Actually, it’s not just position that’s important, it is this idea of changing position which actually leads us to the next concept, velocity or speed, which measures how quickly an object’s position changes over time. So, for example, let’s say we have two objects, A and B, and this one’s position changes from here to here and object B’s position changes from here to here. I want to know which object move faster. Was it object A, object B, or can we not tell from the information I’ve given you? Think about this one, it may not be as obvious as it seems at first. Well, object B did move further, but from the information we gave you, we actually can't tell which one moved faster. If it took object B 10 years to move over here and object A only took 10 seconds to move over here, well, clearly object A must have been moving quite a bit faster than object B. So this notion of the years, seconds seems to be playing into motion a lot. We should change our definition. Let's call it changing position over time. We’re going to be talking about these quantities so much, let’s give them some abbreviations. Position, I’m going to abbreviate with the variable X. And velocity, I'll use the variable V. Now, we just said that measuring an object’s velocity is somehow measuring how fast its position is changing. Well, we can write that with an equation. This equation says that velocity is equal to the change in X over the change in time. The change in position over the change in time. This triangle here is the Greek letter delta, and it represents change. X represents position. This mathematical definition really ties in with our intuitive definition of what velocity means. Before we go any further, let's also talk about how we're going to measure these quantities. What units are we going to use? To measure position, we're going to use the unit meter, which we'll abbreviate to M. While velocity is just position, which is meters divided by some unit of time. And the unit of time we'd like to use is the second. So second. Meters per second. If we were Aristotle, we would stop here because if an object falls with constant velocity - And velocity never changes. We don't really care about anything else. Position and velocity seemed to be enough to quantify motion. But we're talking about Galileo and for him speed is constantly changing. This concept of changing speed is so important we give it its own word, acceleration. And we abbreviate that with A. And acceleration is a measure of how an object's velocity changes with time. Just as velocity measure an object's positional change with time. Using this idea that acceleration is change in velocity, can you complete this equation which defines acceleration? And the answer is--well, acceleration is change in velocity divided by some elapsed time or change in time. These equations are definitions of velocity and acceleration, but we can also use them to make some calculations. For example, let’s suppose I drop a ball 5 meters and it takes 1 second for this ball to fall. For example, let's say I drop a ball 5 meters and I measured that it takes 1 second for the ball to hit the ground. What was the ball’s average velocity? And we will talk more about more why I’m using the word “average” later. Δx is change in position, how much is ball’s position changing? Well, it's changing by 5 meters. V equals change in position--5 meters--over change in time--well, it took 1 second. So, 5/1 is just 5 meters per second. Not bad. Now, how about you do one. Let’s say that Galileo drops a ball at the Leaning Tower of Pisa and he finds that after 2 seconds, it’s speed is 20 meters per second. I want you to tell me what was the ball’s acceleration. Now, there's a few answers you might have given to answer this question. Let's talk about them. First, you might have used this equation, this definition of acceleration, to say okay well the ball changes its velocity by 20 meters per second by going from 0 to 20, which means Δv is equal to 20 m/sec and since it takes 2 seconds to drop Δt is equal to 2 seconds. Well, this is just the equation for acceleration and so the answer is 20/2 or 10 m/sec square. That's your first answer you may have given, maybe 10 m/sec squared. That's probably the most correct, but your second answer, which I would have been very impressed with as well is how did Galileo measure speed. This was hundred of years ago. They had no good way of measuring speed. And so the very question that I gave to you was pretty flawed in that sense. The third answer you may have given is how did he measure time. Galileo did not have any stop watches or fancy chronometers in his day. Let's see what Professor Settle has to say. To realize good results from the inclined plane needed to be able to time precise interval segments of motion down the inclined plane. He did not have chronometers--he used a pot of water with a hole in the bottom which he could fill to a certain level and which he could allow water to flow through which he could open and stop, collecting the water in a container, and then weighing the water. Let's go back to the experiment. We know he used an inclined plane to roll balls for the purpose of slowing down the motion. We know he used a water clock to measure time. This water clock couldn't measure seconds. He didn't know that the time this clock measured was proportion of the amount of water collected in this collecting device, so he collected this much water in your first experiment and twice as much as water in your second experiment. The second experiment took twice this long. So how they did do the actual experiment? First, you'll roll the ball for 1 unit of time, and a unit here is to find some specified amount of water. You'll let the ball roll and then measure the distance. So maybe after 1 unit of time, the ball had gone from here to here. So how did Galileo do his experiment? Well, you'll have the ball to roll for 1 unit of time or unit of time with a specified amount of water, and you'll measure the distance. This distance you would call 1 unit of distance let say. So if the ball rolled from here to here in 1 unit of time, this became 1 unit of distance. Notice that Galileo wasn't really concerned whether these units were seconds or minutes or meters or inches. He was looking for proportions and improportions. These units always cancel out. So, Galileo really didn't care about these things. After he did that for 1 unit of time, he would allow the ball to roll for 2 units of time and then measure the distance and again for 3 and 4 and so on. He'll keep doing this for 3 units of time, 4, 5, and so on, and when he was done, he would repeat the entire experiment many many times, because more data means you can reduce your error, and we'll talk about that now. Here's an example of what Galileo's data may have looked like. In this version of the experiment, he ran through the experiment five times. On the first run through when he led the ball to roll 1 unit of time, he measured the distance of 1 unit. After 2 units of time, he got 4.03; 3 was 9.07; and 4 was 16.18. Now he was a good scientist so of course he repeated this process multiple times, and this is data he got in each of those following repetitions. Now with all these wonderful data now he has to analyze it. But how does he take advantage of the fact that he has collected each piece of data multiple times? Presumably, he wants to find patterns in this data but how does he use all of it? He has collected it. He should use it all. Well, the answer is he takes the average. And so a quick review on averages in case you've forgotten or if you don't know. To calculate an average--for example if I want to calculate the average distance ruled in each of these units of time, and I've indicated the average of distance by a D with a bar over it, and in physics a bar over a letter generally means the average. What I'm going to do is add up all my data and divide by the number of data points. Here I would add up 1.00 + 1.01 + 0.99 + 0.99 + 1.01. Divide it by 5 because that's how many data points I have--1, 2, 3, 4, 5. And when I calculate that, well I get an average of 1.00. Can you calculate the average for the other 3 time measurements? Enter your answers in these three boxes. To calculate these answers, I added up all of the entries in each row. For example, in this row, I added up these numbers divided by 5, and they give me a result of 4.00 here, 9.00 here, and 16.02. I’ve rounded here for this last one. Now, look at this data, isn’t this beautiful? 1, 4, 9, 16.02 though. Well, that 0.02 is sort of a bummer but let’s put it was just 16 per seconds and see if there is any pattern. Well 1, 4, 9, 16, I do see a pattern there. These are squares. One unit, 1 unit of time squared is 1, 2 squared is 4, 3 squared is 9, and 4 squared is 16--that’s an incredible pattern. It seems like there may be some relationship between distance and square of time, but the 16.02 is really bumming me out. Does it really mean that this pattern is false? Well, not necessarily because one thing we forgotten to do so far is calculate error. In the previous scene, we talked about how to calculate the error of a single measurement. May be that measurement measuring the length of the shadow or something. But now, we have multiple measurements with five measurements for each of these calculated values. How do we calculate the error associated with multiple measurements? When we calculate error with multiple measurements, we're focused on precision. Let's talk about what precision is. Let's say this is you. You're a pretty tall person, you know you are about 2 m tall but you're really curious about exactly how tall you are, so you ask your doctor, Doctor, how tall am I?" She says, "Well, your height is 2.00 meters. You can trust me; I'm a doctor." "Okay," you say, "Can you do that measurement again just so I can feel confident about the measurement?" "Sure, no problem." She does the measurement again. She finds, "Well, you have a height of 1.20 meters. "I did the measurement and I'm a doctor. You can trust me. " You're a little confused so you say, "Well, why don't you make that measurement again, I just want to be sure." "Well, I did the measurement a third time like you asked, and I've found your height. It is 2.80 meters.You could trust me. I am a doctor." Now my question--do you trust your doctor? I sincerely hope you said no, but why? If you calculate the average of these three numbers, if you add them all up and divide by 3, you find an average height of 2.00 meters. That's about what you expected. This is a pretty good number, isn't it? Let's pretend you go to see another doctor after this and this doctor is a little more competent. She has purple hair, and when you asked the purple-haired doctor to repeat the measurement three times, she gives you the following numbers for your height. If you calculate the average, you find an average height of 1.97 meters. Now my question is--what's a better estimate of your height? Is it the 2.00 meters measured by the green doctor or the 1.97 meters measured by the purple-haired doctor? The answer, even though you came in thinking you're about 2 meters tall, is definitely 1.97 meters. Since these numbers are all so much closer to the average value of 1.97, I have more trust in this doctor's ability to make measurements compared to this where the numbers are really far from 2. How do I quantify that trust in a measurement? We've already talked about taking an average. Let's take what's called an average deviation, and this number measures on average how far each is your data points is away from the mean. So let's do an example. For the first doctor, we have three data points. Data point one, well, it's observed value was 2.00 and the mean was 2.00. It’s actually a distance of 0 from the mean. The absolute deviation of this number, this observation, is 0. What about this guy, 1.2 meters? Well, 1.2 - 2 is equal to 0.8, -0.8. But since I don't really care whether they're overestimating or underestimating, I’m going to always make these numbers positive which I do by taking the absolute value. So, just call that + 0.8. This third measurement of 2.8, I get again a deviation of 0.8. Now, for my three measurements, I have deviation of 0, 0.8, and 0.8. That’s the deviation part. What about the average? Well, you know how to do an average, you take the sum, 0 + 0.8 + 0.8 gives me 1.6 and we divide by a number of data points, so 1.6/3 is equal to about 0.53. So, the average deviation for this first doctor was 0.53 and that unit there is meters. We interpret this by saying when this doctor makes a measurement, I can only say with confidence that she's probably within 0.53 meters but even then that's not always true. In fact, into these measurements, she was outside of that range. The way we would write this is by saying the green-haired doctor measured my height to be 2.00 meters plus or minus 0.53 meters. Now, normal height within half a meter is not so helpful, so let’s see what the purple-haired doctor said. Can you tell me how the purple-haired doctor would state my height including the average and the average deviation? Enter your answer here. Well, the average is just 1.97, the same average as before, and the deviation-- well, we add up how far each of these deviate from 1.97. This one deviates by 0, 0.01 and also a 0.01 because remember we take absolute values. Now, if we take the average of these three numbers, we get about 0.01 and again, I've rounded up from 0.0066667, but this is clearly a much smaller error and I trust this number 1.97 much more than I trust the 2. The lesson here--beware of green-haired doctors. With the Galileo's data, we know the average isn't the only thing that matters. We also have to look at the average deviation. I want you to go ahead and calculate the average deviation for each of these four rows. You can go ahead and round to two decimal places. And the answers I get after rounding are 0.01, 0.02, 0.04 and 0.09. Now, when we look back at Galileo's data, we had this pattern that we wanted to see emerging--this 1, 4, 9, 16. These seem to be squares, perfect squares. Now, one thing I should mention is an assumption we're making. The assumption we're making when we do this experiment or just about any experiment is that nature is repeatable. By that I mean when we roll the ball for 1 unit of time, if we actually role for 1 unit, the ball will go the exact same distance in all five of these trials. The reason why these numbers aren't all identical is because we either miss-timed or miss-measured the distance. It's an error on our end. It's an error on our end, not on nature's end. To quantify the error on our end, how good we are at making these observations, we've calculated this average deviation. What this average deviation tells us is that for each of these trials, each of these four different experiments, we believe the true distance to be, well, for example, 1 ± 0.01 distance units-- whatever those distances were. That means the true value here could have been between 0.99 and 1.01. That means we believe that the minimum distance this ball actually rolled was 0.99 and the max was 1.01. This is 1 - 0.01, and this is 1 + 0.01. What would be the minimum and maximum possible true distances for this example? Well, 16.02 - 0.09 is 15.93, and if we add 0.09, we get 16.11. Notice that the number 16.00 still falls within this realm, and so our square relationship that we were looking for before is still entirely possible. It's still, as we would say, within our experimental error. We have this wonderful relationship. When a ball rolls down a hill, the distance it rolls, and I tried to mark off equal distances here--excuse my terrible drawing-- but the distance the ball rolls is somehow proportional to the square of the time. I say proportional to and not equals because remember we don't know the units of time or distance, in fact. Time was measured by allowing water to flow and then weighing the resulting water. One distance unit was just defined as the distance a ball rolled in one time unit. Okay, so we have this relationship. What can we do with it? Well, it reminds me a little bit of what we saw from Aristotle earlier in the unit. Aristotle thought that all objects fell at constant velocity and that that velocity was proportional to the mass. The way we use this relationship was to set up ratios. If we have two objects, 1 and 2, with masses 1 and 2, and some velocities that we're assuming are proportional to that mass, we can set up this equation. If we happen to know three of these quantities--maybe two masses and one velocity-- we can figure out the unknown quantity. Okay, not so bad. But what does this square do? How does that change the calculation? Well, initially this setup looks just the same as before. The only difference is now we have to square this side--pretty straightforward. Let's practice. We have two identical balls, which we'll number 1 and 2. I let this first ball fall for 2 seconds, and it falls a distance of 20 m. If I let this ball fall for 7 seconds, how many meters will it fall? You can use this equation and enter your answer here. Well, let's set up our ratio—d₁/d₂. Well, that'd be 20 over—well, let's call this x for now. And then that's equal to t₁/t₂ or (2/7)², and (2/7)² is just 2²/7² or 4/49. Solving this for x, I get 980/4, which is 245 m. We were able to solve this problem using only ratios and our knowledge of the relationship between distance and time for a free falling object. Now, solving problems using ratios and geometry is something that was very popular in the time of Galileo. Today, it's more common to see equations. Isn't that right, Professor? For Galileo, mathematics was geometry. You find, for instance, the law of free fall expressed not in an equation that we're familiar with but in terms of ratios. This is to this as that is to that. So, let's review what we've learned about motion. We've learned what position, velocity, and acceleration are, and these are the key words we use to describe motion. We've defined them in terms of each other. For example, velocity is defined in terms of a change in position. We've given units to position and velocity. We'll get there for acceleration. And now we've found something truly incredible. A mathematical relationship between time and position for an object in free fall. Now, put yourself in Galileo's shoes. Imagine being the first person to realize that nature not only behaves predictably, but in a way that we can describe using mathematics. It's truly a beautiful thing. From this Galileo actually inferred that acceleration is constant. What Galileo meant by "constant acceleration" was that no matter where you were in the world, whether you were in Pisa or Peru, if you drop an object, it will fall at a constant rate. The acceleration will be the same everywhere and for all objects. Now, to better understand this idea, let's talk about the units of acceleration a little bit more. Well, the units are meters per second per second. Notice that these units include both a time interval—a second— and a speed—meters per second. This sort of hints at the definition for constant acceleration, which just means an object gains equal speed during equal time intervals. If we drop an object, and it starts at rest, and after 1 second it has a speed of 10 m/s, meaning that it's gained 10 m/s of speed in that first second, what will its speed be after 2 seconds? This can be a subtle point, so don't worry if you don't get it right on your first try. The answer is 20 m/s. It went from 0 to 10 in its first second. It'll go from 10 to 20 in it's second second. That is what constant acceleration means. In fact, after 9 seconds, for example, the object will be going 90 m/s. It seems like, again, we're seeing this proportionality. In fact, this velocity seems to be proportional to time. Here's it's just 10 times whatever the time is. So, we have this relationship--v proportional to t. Wow, we've really discovered a lot about motion. To make sure we understand this idea, that velocity is proportional to time, let's look at one example. Let's imagine that we drop a ball. The instant we drop the ball t = 0, the ball's speed is 0 m/s. If I wanted to represent this with a picture, I would just draw a stationary ball. If my acceleration is 10 m/s per second, which we can also say 10 m/s², then after 1 second I will have gained 10 m/s. I can represent this velocity with a downwards arrow. The length of this arrow somehow represents the size or magnitude of this velocity. After another second the speed increases to 20, and my arrow is twice as long. I want you to tell me two things about what happens after 3 seconds. First, the speed and, second, where should I put the end of this arrow, which represents that speed. Should I put it here, here, here, or here? Well, the speed is 30. We've just gained another 10 m/s. The arrow should end here. It's length has increased by 1 more unit. These arrows are something we're going to use a lot in physics, and we're going to call them vectors. Notice that these vectors have two properties--a length and a direction. These vectors happen to be pointing downwards, but we'll see soon vectors that will point in other directions. We've really learned a lot. Surely, we'll be able to answer a simple question, right? For example, if Galileo drops a ball off the leaning tower, how far does it fall in 2 seconds? Can we answer that? Well, we want to know distance. I'm thinking we going to use our relationship with x, and it's somehow proportional to t². But unfortunately, this is not enough information. Remember how we solved this. We used ratios. Ratios mean we need to compare two things. If I knew how far the ball fell in 1 second or in 10 seconds or in 7 seconds, yes, I could solve this. But I haven't even told you that. It looks like we might be in trouble. What we want is not a proportionality relationship. We want an equality. We want x equals some constant--some number that never changes--times t². This constant is called the constant of proportionality. Before I just tell you what the constant is let's learn about an amazing physical tool called dimensional analysis where "dimensional" refers to the dimensions or units of a number, because right now we know nothing about this constant. It could have units of length. It could have units of time. It could have units of time squared over length cubed. We just don't know. Let's use dimensional analysis to figure out what the units of this constant should be. We do dimensional analysis by converting everything into units of length, time, and mass, combination of these. Let me show you what I mean. Let's look at this equation x equals something times time squared. Just keep track of the units. Well, x is a unit of length. It's a unit of distance. On the left hand side I'll write length. That equals some unknown here multiplied by something with units of time squared. Solving for my question mark, I find that the units of this unknown constant are length/time squared. What has units of length/time squared? Well, length/time squared could be something like meters per second squared. That's acceleration. This constant of proportionality that relates time and position has units of acceleration. Pretty cool. It turns out that this constant of proportionality is just 1/2 the acceleration of the object that we're talking about. For objects in free fall on earth, this acceleration happens to be equal to 10 m/s², which is why I've been using this as an example acceleration so much. In fact, this number is so important we give it the abbreviation "g." But keep in mind we only use this number when an object's in free fall. When an object's rolling, this acceleration will be--well, you tell me. Does an object rolling accelerate faster or slower? It accelerates slower. That's the reason we rolled balls down inclined planes to begin with. Galileo needed to slow down motion. Now that we have an equation, we can really solve some interesting motion problems, but we can't solve them all just yet. For example, this equation only describes an object that starts at rest. What if Galileo decided to throw this ball off the leaning tower? Or what if he decided to throw it at an angle. Well, now we're in the realm of 2-dimensional motion. In the rest of this unit we'll talk about how to solve these problems. Okay, so you have this amazing new skill, and you can calculate all sorts of motion problems. Now, can you calculate every motion problem? The answer is not quite yet. There are two types of problems we still can't solve. We can't solve problems where an object starts with some initial velocity, and we can't solve problems where the object moves in two dimensions, but we'll get to that later. For now let's talk about this initial velocity idea. The variable we're going to use to talk about initial velocity is V with the subscript 0. This comes from the idea that when we start a problem we usually start our timer at 0. So this is at time equals 0 what is the velocity? Let's think back to Galileo standing on top of the leaning tower of Pisa. This time around, instead of just having him drop the ball, let's imagine he could throw the ball straight down with different initial velocities. Now, just to get you thinking, I want to think about this question, when will the ball go farther? If he drops the ball with an initial speed of 0--so that's truly just dropping the ball and not throwing it at all--will the ball go farther then? Let's say in a single second? Or will the ball go farther if he throws it at 10 m/s straight down? In one second, when will the ball go farther? The answer is if you give the ball some initial velocity, it will go farther in that first second of travel. Okay. But how much farther is always the question in physics. How much? Let's quantify. So you already know how to answer this question when the V0 is zero, when that is, he is dropping the ball, not throwing it actually. In fact I think you can answer this using our equation, X equals one half GT square where we remember that G is about equal to 10 meters per second square. Why don't you go ahead and calculate the the distance for these three cases. And if I plug in 10 for G and one for T I get one half times ten, times one which is five meters, plugging in two I get 20 meters and plugging in three I get 45 meters. Now, if Galileo could have taken accurate velocity, time, and distance measurements, and he did the following experiment with different values of V initial, and this is the speed with which he threw the ball downwards, this is the data he would have found. So, go ahead and look at this data, see if you can find the pattern and find what term belongs here, what term should be added to ½gt² to accurate describe the position x, which I've called d up here. Now, when you're entering your answer, to enter a number like V₀, you can just type the letter V followed by a 0, and the grader will know what you mean. Now, don't get discouraged if you can't figure this one out. It's a very tricky problem. But just think about it, and if you do get it right, that's really impressive. Well, let's see. Let's compare this entry to this entry. Every thing's the same except for the initial velocity. What's happened? Well, the object has gone 10 further. What about this entry to that entry? Well, again, every is the same except for the initial velocity, and the object's gone 20 m further. 40 is 20 bigger than 20. For this one and this one, the object's gone 30 m further. If we compare this entry to this entry, we've a 20 m increase, 40, and 60. Well, what do you know? 10 m is 10 1. 20 is 10 2. 30 is 10 3. And so on. In fact, this is always going to be the case. The distance an object moves when it has some initial velocity is equal to V₀ times the time plus ½gt². This is our first serious equation of the course—Δx = V₀t + ½at². Now, I've introduced this Δ because this equation really describes how much and object position changes from here to there over a period of time, given an initial velocity and an acceleration. I wrote a here instead of g, because a is more general. In physics we like general equations. This is the acceleration of your object, which on earth in free fall does happen to be this number g, which is 10 m/s². On the moon, though, this number actually significantly smaller. So, this is one of the important kinematic equations. It's one of the equations that really describes how objects move. Now, there's a couple other kinematic equations that I want to talk about, and I'm actually going to do something that I'm a little reluctant to do. I'm going to give them to you. The next one I want to talk about is this one— velocity equals initial velocity + acceleration times the amount of time the object's been moving. Okay, fine. Why am I reluctant to give this to you? I'm reluctant because I already did. When we defined acceleration, we defined it as a change in velocity over some elapsed time, some change in time. In fact, that's exactly what this equation says, though it's hidden a bit. This velocity is actually what we can call some final velocity, after some time has elapsed. If we just rearrange this a little bit—like this—and then we can even divide by t if we'd like, we have this definition of acceleration. It's the change in velocity—final minus initial—over the elapsed time t. The last equation I want to talk about is this one. What does this one say? I says that there's some relationship between final velocity and initial velocity, acceleration and distance traveled. Deriving this one is a big trickier, but it's still something that I think you can do. I'm not going to do the derivation here, but I'd love to see some discussion about this in the forums. Now, let me say this is often the place where students get a bit scared. I've had many students tell me that equations are frightening, but the fact is they aren't. They're inanimate objects. They're not even objects. They're an inanimate idea. In fact, they're a tool. They're a tool for us. When you see a tool that you don't know how to use, you have two choices for how to respond. You can walk away, discouraged because you don't know what to do with it. Or you can imagine all the amazing things this tool will let you do, sit down, and learn to use it. I hope that's the option you choose. Let's sit down and learn how to use these tools. We have three equations here that also supposedly describe the same thing--motion. But if they all describe the same thing, why do we need three of them? Well, let's think for a second. Motion so far seems to involve talking about these five quantities. How much our position changes, our initial velocity, our final velocity, our acceleration, and our time. If we go through each of these equations, we can see they each involve some combination of these variables. We can see that this equation involves all the variables except for the final velocity, this one everything except for change in position, and this one everything except for time. These are all going to be useful in different circumstances. Let's do some practice. Let's say I gave you this situation. Here we have Galileo again on the top of the leaning tower, which he may or may not have every done, and he's going to through a ball downwards at 5 m/s. Now, the height is 57 m. That's the change in position that the ball is going to have to undergo. Now, my question is out of these five variables, which three do we know? And we do know three, not only two. Well, we know the initial velocity is 5 m/s. We know the height, and that corresponds to a change in position. If we're going to drop this ball 57 m, it's going to change position from here to here, a distance of 57 m. We know Δx and, though I didn't tell you this explicitly, we know the acceleration. Acceleration is just going to be that number we labeled g or 10 m/s². Now, my question is how fast is this ball moving when it hits the ground. What is the final velocity? If I'm asking you about the final velocity, it means this is the fourth variable involved in the question. So, we have 1, 2, 3, 4 variables involved in this problem, and which four? Well, these four. Everything except for time. That looks like it corresponds to this equation, this tool. As every carpenter knows, having the right tool for the job makes this remarkably easy. Now we can just plug in. Can you use this new tool to plug in our known values and calculate V? Enter your answer in meters per second rounded to one decimal place. Well, let's see. V² = V₀ or 5² + 2 times our acceleration, which is 10---g, times Δx, which is 57 meters. I get that V² is equal to 1165, and the unit there will actually be m²/s². When I take the square root, I find the velocity is 34.1 m/s. Let's review the strategy here--understand the problem, identify our variables, first we identify which were given to us and we have to be careful to recognize the acceleration was given to us, identify what's being asked. Do we know that these were the four variables in question? Find the corresponding equation--well, this one uses those four variables. And plug and chug. Not too bad. Let's do another practice question. For this question we throw a ball straight up in the air at 20 m/s I want to know what's the highest point above the ground that the ball reaches. Now, this question is tricky in several ways. Let's first try to identify our knowns, what was given to us. Well, we threw it straight up with 20 m/s of velocity. That's got to be the initial velocity, because that's how fast it's going at the beginning of the problem. Now, since this is a problem that's taking place on earth, and the object is in free motion, I of course know the acceleration is 10 m/s². But then I'm sort of stuck. What is the highest point above the ground that the ball reaches? Well, highest point seems important, but I'm still a little confused and without a picture, I'm not going to make much progress on this question. So, let's draw a picture of what happens when you throw a ball straight in the air with some initial velocity. Well, it goes up, up, up, up, up. Eventually it stops and turns around and then comes back down. Ah, okay, so this highest point, I can see is some sort of change in position. The problem gives me the initial velocity, and I know the acceleration. I'll need one more piece of information if I'm going to solve for Δx. If you've been listening very carefully, I gave a hint. Which of these two variables do we actually know when the ball is at the top of its trajectory? The answer is velocity. We said before the ball goes up, up, up, up and then stops for a brief instant. Stopping means at this point in the trajectory, the velocity is equal to 0. That's a trick we're going to have to use pretty frequently when we're solving these sorts of problems. Now, going back to our equations, we see we're going to use the exact same one we used last time, because these four variables are the relevant ones, except this time we're solving for the height—Δx. Can you tell me what is the highest point above the ground the ball reaches? Enter your answer in meters to one decimal place. Well, when we plug in everything we know, we know at the very top the velocity is 0, and 0² is just 0, equals the initial velocity squared. Well, 20² + 2aΔx, and Δx is our unknown. If we solve this we move the 20² over here--20² is 400, so we have -400, equals 20 Δx, which means that Δx = - 20 m. Uh oh. I'm confused. What is this negative business? This negative makes me think we may have made a mistake, so let's look at our variables. Well, we said the initial velocity was 20 meters per second. Yeah, that was absolutely true. We threw it up at 20 meters per second. We said the final velocity was 0. We can't really argue that. At the top of the trajectory, it does have to stop for a brief instant. And we said the acceleration was 10 and that's meters per second squared. When on earth isn't that always the acceleration? Well, here's where we have to be careful. When we said that the initial velocity was +20, we made a choice. We said, "Hey, in this problem, up is positive." Now, we were free to make that choice. We could've said, "Down was positive too." But once we make our choice, we're no longer free. Acceleration. Objects always accelerate downward. They accelerate towards the earth. They don't spring up off the earth. If we've chosen up is positive, we have to choose A as negative since it points downwards. And if we carry that out, we get a +20 here and so the maximum height is 20 meters. Remember whenever you make a calculation in physics, you are calculating something about the real world. If you're number doesn't make sense in the real world, you did something wrong. This is nice because it's a built-in sanity check. We can always check to see that our number isn't totally crazy, and we know if it is totally crazy we made a mistake. If it's not, we still may have made a mistake but we feel more confident with a better answer. One more question before we move on. And this time you throw a ball again straight up at 20 meters per second. But now I want to know how long does it take to reach the highest point. Enter your answer here. Well, let's see. We know initial velocity. We know acceleration since we're in the earth. We can use the same trick to know the velocity if the top of the trajectory is zero and we're looking for the time--okay. These were variables correspond to this equation V = V at plus 80 plugging in my velocity at the top is 0 minus your velocity is 20 plus my acceleration which is - 10 times time. If I solve this, I find that time equals 2 seconds. That makes tons of sense. We know the acceleration due to gravity is 10 meters per second per second. If I start off with the velocity of 20 meters per second going up, I'm going to lose 10 meters per second every second. So it's going to take 2 seconds for this velocity to go down to 0 and that's the top of my trajectory. Now let me say you've done amazing work if you've made it this far. You know everything there is to know about objects moving in a straight line. That is pretty cool. Now you should go ahead and take a breather maybe go outside and drop some balls off of leaning buildings or go to the forums and ask any of the questions you might have. I said amazing questions, but really I should have said any because in the world of questions every question is an amazing question. There's plenty of people in the forums who would love to help you out and once you're done there, you can come back and learn about two dimensional motion where you'll finally know how to kick a soccer ball to get it past the goalkeeper, where to aim your arrow so it hits the bulls eye and any other question that involves motion in two dimensions. Welcome back; now, it’s time to talk about 2-dimensional motion and this is where things get really interesting. So far, we’ve only talked about 1-dimensional motion and that motion in a straight line either purely up and down motion or purely left and right motion. But what happens when we have some combination? Well, then we get the motion with—this is the sort of motion that describes a cricket ball as it bounces towards the batsman or an arrow as it sails towards it’s target or a parachutist who has just jumped out of a plane. Now, before we talk about our modern day understanding of 2-dimensional motion and in fact Galileo’s understanding, let’s talk about what Aristotle thought of 2-dimensional motion. In Aristotle’s mind--and this is Aristotle over here of course-- objects, for example, a ball thrown into the sky moving in a straight line until they ran out of what he called impetus. At that point, after the fall straight down and land somewhere on the ground. Now, before I continue, why don’t you try this. Throw a small object like a coin or a pencil in front your field of view, and look at what you see. It’s actually really difficult to see what’s going on. In fact, it wasn’t until Galileo came around that the true path of an object in 2-dimensional motion was known. That path is what called a parabola. So, we know that 2-dimensional motion is parabolic. And so what? Parabolic is just a word. What does that mean? In fact, can we use this word to somehow describe 2-dimensional motion mathematically? In physics, prediction is power, and what I mean by prediction is, can we develop our understanding of motion in such a way that we can explain and predict mathematically? How an object will move before we actually throw that object, let's say? We can and that’s what we will do in the rest of this unit. How did Galileo quantify motion in 2 dimensions? Well, he was a good scientist so he did an experiment. This experiment involved rolling balls off of a the table and controlling the speed with which they rolled off the table and measuring where the ball landed. Galileo controlled the speed of the ball by adjusting the height from which it rolled. If he wanted it to go faster, he will roll it from higher up. We'll talk later about how exactly he can know where to put the ball. Galileo controlled the speed of the ball by adjusting where in the plane he released it from. Higher up of course meant it would be going faster by the time it got to the edge of the table. Like in his previous experiments, he didn't know the units of his velocity, but he knew their relative sizes. For example, he knew he can make the velocity twice as big as it was originally or three or four times bigger and look what he found. Again these are unit list distances but look at this correspondence. When the ball had a velocity of 1 unit, represented here, the trajectory looks something like this. With a velocity of 2 units, the ball went twice as far. Likewise with 3 and 4 units of initial horizontal velocity. Galileo called this Vx. This x indicates an x direction. When we label axis, we usually called the horizontal direction x and the vertical y and so this x is just here to remind us that we're talking about a velocity in the horizontal direction. Okay, this is pretty interesting. What's the conclusion that we can draw from this data? Is it that the horizontal velocity is equal to the motion in the x direction? That horizontal velocity is somehow proportional to the motion in the x direction? Or that horizontal velocity and x direction motion are totally unrelated? What's the best answer? Now, this was a really tricky question. You might have been tempted to choose this first answer. I can understand why--1, 1, 2, 2--seems pretty equal. But not quite, because this left column has units of speed or velocity, and this right has units of distance. It's like comparing apples to oranges. They can never be truly equal. A better thing to say is that they're proportional, and that there's some constant of proportionality which relates the two. We've learned that the faster the ball is moving to the right, the farther it goes to the right. That's pretty intuitive. Good. This should be intuitive. Galileo didn't just measure Δx though. He could also measure the time it took these balls to hit the ground. What he found was truly remarkable. Give this data, I want you to tell me what's the best relationship between horizontal velocity and the time the ball spent in the air. Are they equal, proportional, or totally unrelated? The answer is that they're totally unrelated. This might not be what you expected. If a ball is going faster, maybe you think it'll spend more time in the air or less time in the air. But the data says, no, and in physics we have to listen to the data. This is hinting at a deep and beautiful fundamental truth of 2-dimensional motion. The truth is that motion has two components--it has a horizontal and a vertical component-- and those two components are completely independent. What do I mean by independent? I mean that we can break a two dimensional motion problem into two separate one dimensional motion problem and this is an amazing tool. Then we go on and shown how in 1 dimension, if we're for example dropping a ball, at the instant when we dropped the ball, well it has no velocity not quite yet. One second later, it's picked up some velocity. It picks up that much again in the 2nd second and again it picks up the same amount in the 3rd, and we can represent that pictorially with pictures like these. Now what if instead of dropping the ball, we throw it to the side. What kind of errors are we going to draw now? The instance the ball was released, it only has horizontal velocity--that's from you throwing it. I said before that these components are completely independent so that means after 1 second this horizontal component--well, it doesn't change. It keeps going to the right and just like in the 1 dimensional problem before it picks some speed going downwards. In fact, it picks up the same amount of vertical speed that it would have had we just dropped the ball. After 2 seconds, horizontal component does not change but the vertical looks twice as long and after 3 seconds the vertical grows again and the horizontal stays the same. Now this is sort of a strange picture here. Is this ball moving to the right or is it moving down or is it moving in some other direction? Which of these errors best describes the direction of the balls' motion at this point in time? And it's a guess so don't worry if you're wrong. The answer is this one, the ball is moving down to the right and just think if we were throwing a real ball up a tower, its path would look something like this. In any instant we can approximate the direction it's moving, a straight line like this and yeah sure enough it goes down to the right. Remember, whenever you ask a qualitative answer like this one in physics, well, physics describes reality. You should never provide an answer that disagrees with what you think would actually happen. Okay, so how do we get this answer. With this blue arrows are what we call components of the balls velocity. We've already mentioned the horizontal component and this one we'll call the vertical component. Those two together create the balls resulting velocity but they have to be added appropriately. The way we do that is we imagine sliding this horizontal vector down, so its tail matches with this guy's tip and we can also slide this vertical one over here. Now we've created this nice rectangular shape where those meet we draw our line and we have our resulting velocity. This is going to come in handy when we wanted to do some trigonometry later, and just to give you a hint we can already see the right triangles forming. Now this has been talked about in a very abstract sort of way. Let's actually solve a problem so we know what's going on. Here I've drawn a problem which is a classic 2-dimensional motion problem. Before we get into it, though, let's remind ourselves about the equations we learned in 1-dimensional motion. These equations relate a few variables--Δx, initial velocity, time, acceleration, and velocity, which we called some final velocity. I'm going to write those over here. To fully understand an object's motion in one dimension, we like to somehow decide what the values were for all of these variables. In 2-dimensional motion, I said we're just solving two of these 1-dimensional problems. So, we need to make some copies. Δx is going to partner with Δy. V₀--ah, wait. V₀ I'm going to call V₀ₓ, like I did over here. To distinguish between whether the velocity is horizontal or vertical, its partner will be V₀ᵧ. There's going to be two accelerations--one in the x direction and one in the y. Likewise, two final velocities. Interestingly enough, however, there's only going to be one time. There's no x and y version of time, because unlike position, velocity, and acceleration, there's no easy way to assign a direction to time. In physics, we call time a scalar, and these other quantities are vectors. You don't have to worry about the vocabulary for now. If we want to know the trajectory of this ball as it travels through the air, our goal is to get numerical answers for each of these quantities. Some we can already fill in. V₀ₓ I know will be 10 m/s. This is the number that I just gave you at the start of the problem. What about Δy? Can you tell me what Δy will be in meters? Well, that's the vertical distance the ball is going to move over the course of its trajectory, and that's exactly equal to 50 m. What about this acceleration of 10 m/s²? Is that a horizontal or a vertical acceleration? It's vertical. Acceleration is always straight down. Well, it seems like we've used all the numbers that were given to us, the 10, the 10, and the 50. Now we're going to have to do some work. V0y, even though it wasn't given to use explicitly, is something we can actually answer right now without doing any math. What is V0y? It's 0. The ball is only moving horizontally to begin with. This 0 indicates we're talking about the beginning of the problem, and the y means vertical direction. There's no vertical velocity at the beginning of the problem. So, V0y is 0 m/s. Now, looking only at the numbers on the right side, because this is what we're familiar with from 1-dimensional motion, could you tell me what the time it will take for this ball to hit the ground is? Well, we're going to need to use one of our equations. We're going to need to use the one that involves all of the variables except for final velocity. And that would be this equation. Okay, using only numbers from the right column, Δx, well that's actually Δy, 50 = V0 t, but that's 0 t. That's just 0. Plus ½, I can use my 10 for the a, times t². Solving this, we get a result of 3.2 seconds. Now, what's the final y component of velocity--whatever that means? We'll talk more about what that means at the end of this problem. For now, let's just calculate what this Vy will be. Enter your answer here. Well, we're just looking at these numbers, and the easiest equation to use for me would be this one—Vy, even though the y isn't here in the original equation, remember I'm just looking at this right-hand side, equals the initial velocity in the y direction, which was 0, plus the acceleration, which is 10. Well, Vy just equals the initial velocity in the y direction, 0, plus 10 times 3.2--acceleration times time. Giving that out gives us 32 m/s. Look how much progress we've made. We've already filled up half of these values. We're learning a lot about the motion of this object. In fact, we already talked about how the time over here is the same over here. There's only one time in the problem. I can fill that in here, and I've already told you that acceleration is only straight down. If I drop an object, it doesn't spontaneously drift to the left or right. It goes straight down, meaning the acceleration in the x direction is 0. Now, can you, using only the numbers in this left-hand column and these equations fill in these remaining two entries? Enter your answers here and here. Let's use this equation. Vx = 10, which is the initial x velocity, plus 0, which is the acceleration, time 3.2. Well, that goes to zero, and so we just have an x velocity of 10. Note that the initial and final x velocities were exactly the same. That is not a coincidence. That's due to the fact that there's no acceleration in the x direction. Now to find Δx I use this equation. The initial velocity is 10 times the time, which is 3.2, plus ½at². Note, again, a is 0, so this goes to 0. 10 3.2--10 <i>3.2 is 32 m.</i> The object will land 32 m away from the wall. This is an amazing ability that you now have. Now it's your turn. I set up a very similar problem to the last one. If you need help solving this one, you should go back and see how we solved the last one. But in this problem, we have, let's call him Archimedes, standing on the bluffs of Syracuse. He's firing his bow straight out into horizontally into the ocean to see how far a ship could be before he could reach it. His bow fires his arrow at 50 m/s, and the height of the bluff is 100 m. Can you fill out all of these fields here? If you can get this right, I will be very, very impressed. Let's start by filling out what was given. We know the initial x velocity is just this velocity--50 m/s. The x acceleration is 0, as it almost always is, and the y acceleration is 10. Δy is this height--100 m--and the initial y velocity is 0, because this is being shot exactly horizontally--no component of this velocity is vertical. We can plug these variables into this equation to get a value for t. When we do this algebra, we get a time of 4.47 s. Remember, both of these times are identical. I can use these three values to find the final y velocity. It gives me a value of 44.7 m/s. And what about the x? Well, if I know the initial x velocity is 50 m/s, I know that velocity never changes. The acceleration is 0 in the x direction. This means the final x velocity is 50 m/s. To calculate the distance it travels in the x direction--that's this distance here-- I can use this equation. Of course, this term goes to 0, since the x acceleration is 0. When I solve this, I find Δx is equal to 224 m. Well, if you got this on your first try, I am very impressed. If you didn't, hey, go back and try it again. If you're still confused after a few tries, go to the forums. I'll be there. So will Jonathan, the assistant instructor and all of your classmates, and we're all happy to help. Now, this 355 m is pretty good. That's far for a bow and arrow. But my question is how can we shoot farther? If we want to shoot our arrow even farther, what would we do? Well, maybe it's the case that we just can't shoot any farther. Maybe we should aim straight up into the sky or maybe we should just aim slightly higher, so we shoot at some angle. What do you think is the best answer? Well, the best answer is that we should aim slightly higher. That seems pretty intuitive. If I'm trying to throw a ball to my friend who's far away, I don't throw horizontally. I throw slightly into the air. Now, the question is how much higher do we aim? As we always want to do in physics, let's quantify. Let's consider a problem where I throw the ball with an initial velocity of 50 m/s. But this time I don't say V₀x or V₀y, because this is not purely horizontal or purely vertical. It's at an angle. Now, we know if we can break this problem into two 1-dimensional motion problems we're all set. So, that's should be our end goal. Let's pause for a second. Not literally. Don't hit the pause button. But let's think back to when we first started talking about horizontal and vertical velocity. Remember how we talked about a ball with vertical and horizontal velocity components? Well, these components were just a way of thinking about the true velocity, which was off at some angle. In that case, we went from components to the true velocity. Now, we're going to go the other way. What do I mean by that? I mean, we're going to make a right triangle. How do we do it? Well, here's our angled side. Here's our hypotenuse. Now, I've broken this hypotenuse down into what I call components-- a horizontal and a vertical initial velocity component. Now, if I call this angle α, and I tell you that α is equal to about 53 degrees, can you tell me what V₀y equals? You might have to think back to the trigonometry from unit 1. Enter your answer here and round to the nearest whole number. Well, here we have an angle, and we have an opposite side and a hypotenuse. Opposite and hypotenuse--well, that's the sine relationship. In fact, I can write that sin α is equal to V0y over 50. It's the opposite over the hypotenuse. Solving this means that V0y is equal to 50 times the sin α, which is 53 degrees. If I type this into a calculator or a search engine, I get 39.9 or rounding 40 m/s. I can do some similar trigonometry using the cosine to find that V0x is 30 m/s. Now, look what we've done. We've broken one very difficult problem into two very solvable problems. Very cool. Well, let's solve the problem. There's a few fields I think you can fill in right now. Can you tell me the horizontal and vertical accelerations as well as the horizontal and vertical initial velocities? As always, horizontal acceleration is 0, vertical is 10 m/s². Horizontal velocity, what we just calculated, is 30, and the vertical is 40 m/s. Now I'm actually going to move this picture out of the way. It's actually become distracting with the person and all this unnecessary information. I'm just going to draw this diagram, which boils out the essential information. One thing I'd like to point out before we solve this problem—Δy. In reality, the ball starts at ground level, goes up to some maximum height and then ends at ground level. Since it starts and ends at the same altitude, well, Δy is really equal to 0. So, maybe I shouldn't call it Δy. Instead, let's solve for the maximum height the ball reaches. Just like I did before, I'm going to approach this problem by looking at the vertical component first. Now, actually, this seems like it could be pretty difficult. I've only got two pieces of information, but that's not entirely true. So, let's exploit the one other fact we know about 1-dimensional motion. We know that when an object reaches the absolute peak of its trajectory it's vertical velocity is 0—a.k.a. at this point vy = 0. It's also true that an object spends just as much time going up in its trajectory as it does going down. That's not something I'm going to prove for you here, but it's something you should definitely talk about in the forums. What's also true is that when a ball starts and ends from the same altitude, same height, it takes the exact same amount of time to go up as it does to go down. You could say t-up equals t-down. Okay, now we're getting somewhere. Let's use this equation. Well, I know at the highest point the balls vertical velocity is 0. The total velocity isn't 0, because it's still moving towards the right, but it's not moving at all vertically. That equals the initial vertical velocity plus acceleration times time, and this is where we have to be careful. Acceleration here is -10. Once I choose the initial velocity upwards of 40, acceleration is downwards has to be negative. Times time. If I solve this I find that the time is equal to 4 seconds. Now, can you tell me what I should put here if this time represents the total travel time of the ball going up and then back down? I'll give you a hint. The answer is not 4. The answer is 8, because it took 4 seconds for the ball to go up, and it's going to take another 4 to go down. That's also the time over here—there's only one time. What does that tell us the total distance covered is? What's Δx? Well, we can use this equation, and since acceleration in the x direction is 0, this term goes to 0, and we just get 30 8, which is 240 m. Oh, no! I've realized we forgot to calculate height. Can you go back for me and calculate the maximum height this ball reaches? Be careful. You may not want to use 8 seconds for your time. Well, the height is just a change in vertical position. It's a Δy. We can use this equation. In fact, I can say that height equals the initial velocity times the time, and I've used 4 seconds, because it only takes half the time to get to the top, and the other half is spent going down, plus ½ times the acceleration times the time². I get a result of 80 m. Now I can actually use this equation again to solve for Vy. That would be the final velocity after 8 seconds just before it hits the ground. Can you solve for Vy? Be very careful with your sign. Is this going to be a positive or a negative velocity? Enter your answer here. Let's see. Vy equals—well, the initial velocity was 40—plus -10 times 8 seconds. 40 - 80 = -40 m/s. Let's go in and fill out the left-hand column. What's the final velocity in the x direction going to be? Well, the initial x velocity is 30, and there's no x acceleration. We could use another equation, or we could just say if there's no acceleration velocity isn't changing. Once again, congratulations. You've learned about Aristotle's mistaken belief that objects fall at a speed proportional to their mass, and Galileo's more accurate description of motion-- that all objects fall at constant acceleration. You can solve problems of motion in 1 and 2 dimensions and are able to calculate given only an objects initial speed and direction the exact path it will follow. You now can fully describe how motion behaves. Stay tuned for next week when we'll go to Cambridge University in England to know why motion occurs this way and investigate the actual causes of motion. See you in class. We're here at Cambridge University in England where Isaac Newton formulated much of his mechanics. In the last unit we talked about motion, but without really discussing what causes an object to move. In this unit, we're going to talk about Newtonian mechanics and the role force plays in governing the motion of objects. Let's do a quick recap of what we learned last time. Well, we talked about Aristotle and Galileo, and they each had different thoughts on how objects move when they're in free fall. Remember, Aristotle thought that the velocity of an object is proportional to its mass and that it falls with constant velocity. Galileo thought that the distance an object covers is proportional to the square time it's been falling or, in the case of the experiments, rolling. In order to distinguish between these two viewpoints, we had to do an experiment, and we found out that data is really power in physics. How did we distinguish between these two viewpoints? We did an experiment, because in the world of science evidence rules, not the ideas of brilliant thinkers. We also learned some of the equations of motion. For example, the equation which describes how far an object travels in a certain time given an initial velocity and an acceleration. So, all these together gave us the ability to predict how an object will move or to quantify its motion. The goal for this unit is to explain the cause of motion. We already know how to quantify and predict an object's motion, but we still don't know why an object is moving the way it is. To do this, we'll have to understand what it means for an object to be at rest. It seems like a straightforward concept but actually a lot to learn here. We'll also have to learn Newton's three Laws of Motion. These are the same laws of motion that you can use to send a rocket into space or put a person on the moon. We'll also be able to answer the feather problem by the end of this unit. What's the feather problem? Well, one problem with feathers is that they're very hard to draw, so I apologize, but the problem I'm referring to is that when you drop a feather, it actually does fall at more or less constant speed, which seems to align with Aristotle's viewpoint. So, we need to figure out what's going on there. Finally, we'll learn about gravity. I'll teach you how you can use your physics knowledge to lift enormous objects. Before we get started, let's go to Cambridge University in England and talk to Dr. Patricia Fara who's an expert in Isaac Newton and his book, The Principia Mathematica. [Patricia Fara] Isaac Newton symbolizes two great changes in the way that science was done, and in particular the way that physics was done. He didn't do this single-handedly. He was just one of many people who did it--particularly Galileo. There are two main reasons why his book, The Principia, The Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy, why it's important. Before we get into the reasons why his work is so important-- let's take a minute to try to put ourselves in Newton's shoes and imagine what his life was like. So, here we are, leaning against an apple tree reading one of our favorite books, and all around us things are happening. Apples are falling off trees. Rocks are rolling down mountains. And as nature unfolds around it, we probably never really stop to ask what's happening. We just take it for granted. If we want to think about something profound, maybe we look at the moon or the stars or the sun. Surely, the motions of these perfect celestial bodies are somehow more perfect or different than the motions of commonplace items like apples and rocks. Now, with the benefit of hindsight, I'm going to ask you a question. What do the motions of stars and apples have in common? Do they have nothing in common at all? Are they totally distinct and separate? Or are these motions completely identical? Or are they somehow different but governed by the same set of laws? Which means that the same rules which affect how an apple falls to the ground also affect how the earth orbits the sun or the moon orbits the earth. I haven't taught you this yet, so I don't expect you to know the answer, but I do want to get you thinking. Choose what you think is the best answer. And I said this was the best answer, but don't worry if you put something different. Let's see what Dr. Fara has to say. [Patricia Fara] There is one thing that everybody knows about Isaac Newton-- that he sat beneath an apple tree and had a flash of inspiration. We don't know, and I don't think we can ever know, whether it really happened. What he said was that he was sitting in his garden, in his orchard where he'd had to retreat from Cambridge because of the plague, so he was sitting in the orchard watching the apples fall around him and suddenly he thought to himself, why is it that that apple falls to the ground? Why doesn't it move sideways or upwards? And is it possible that there is one single force that makes the apple fall to the ground and makes the moon go 'round the earth and makes the earth go 'round the sun? And that is allegedly the great "Eurkea" moment, the flash of inspiration, and that's the significance of the apple. Now, this is a huge claim for Newton to be making-- that there is some mysterious entity pulling apples to the ground, which he calls some force--iin fact, it calls it "gravity"--and that that same force somehow causes the moon to go in a circular orbit around the earth. Now, Newton calls this force gravity, and there's a few properties he claims it has. He calls it a mutually attractive force, which means that all objects, anything with mass, attracts every other object with mass. So, right now my hand is attracted to this pen with some gravitational force, just as he claims the earth is attracted to the moon. Next, he claims this force is proportional to 1/r². When I say "r", I mean the separation distance between the center of the two things we're talking about. We talked about this idea of proportionality last time, and we know that 1/r² means that if we were to, say, double this distance what would happen to the force? Use your knowledge of proportionality to answer this question as best you can. Well, if we double the distance, we can use this ratio to figure out what's going on with f₂. Here I've called the radius for f₂ twice the initial radius r₁. I've made the exponent -2, because it's proportional to 1/r², so the 2 comes from it being r² and the negative comes from this being in the denominator. When we work this out we find that f₂ is only 1/4 of f₁. But I'm still confused. How could a force be mutually attractive? That means that this apple will be drawn to the center of the earth, which is exactly below it-- so the force will go that way--and the force on the moon will also be towards the center of the earth. How could a force pointing inward causing an object to move in a circle? Seems like maybe you'd want a force that pointed that way or that way. Let's do a little thought experiment with this apple, and maybe that will help us see how an attractive force could actually cause and object to perhaps move in a circular path. Let's do a pomaceous thought experiment to find out whether the motion of an apple really is somehow similar to the motion of a moon and if an attractive force could actually somehow produce a circular orbit. Since this is such a cool experiment, our experimenter gets a suitably cool haircut. First, she's going to drop the apple. Well, we all know what's going to happen. It's going to fall to the ground. Now let's say she throws the apple with some initial velocity--V₀. Well, we learned in the last unit exactly how to quantify this motion. The apple will follow some trajectory like this. Now let's say she throws the apple with a velocity of 2V₀. Which trajectory best describes the path the apple will take? The answer is this trajectory. Remember the apple will spend the same time in the air regardless of how fast you throw it, if you're throwing horizontally, and so doubling the horizontal velocity will just double the distance it covers, making this the best answer. It seems like we still have a problem. None of these trajectories look like they're even close to orbiting. Let's zoom out a bit. When we zoom out we can start to see the curvature of the earth. Interesting. Now our experimenter, who is sort of gigantic in comparison to the earth now, when she drops her apple, same as before, it goes straight to the center of the earth, but now when she throws the apple, it goes all the way over here. Before when we were zoomed in and we were looking at a flat earth, the apple would have stopped right here--but it keeps going a little extra distance due to the curvature of the earth. Let's zoom out one more time. Here's our experimenter once again, and here's the center of the earth. So, now she's really quite a giant. Of course, if she drops the apple, it goes straight towards the center. If she throws the apple, well, it all depends on what speed she throws it at. If she doesn't throw it too fast, it'll follow some curved trajectory and strike the earth. If she throws it really, really fast, it'll leave the earth and be gone before the earth has a chance to pull it back. Now, somewhere in between these extremes if she throws it at just the right speed, the ball will travel a certain distance and, of course, fall a little bit towards the center of the earth. It will travel another certain distance, and of course fall again and keep up this process of traveling and falling and traveling and falling in just such a way that the path it takes is a circular orbit around the earth, and that's all due to an attractive force that wanted to pull the apple towards the center of the earth. As long as we're doing thought experiments, let's do a quiz where our experimenter has access to control the laws of physics. Let's say she chooses to double the strength of gravity. This object is now getting pulled to the center of the earth with twice as much force as it was before. My question is if gravity were doubled, would our experimenter have to throw the apple at a different speed if she wanted it to follow this circular orbit? Remember the point of these is just to get you thinking, so don't worry if you don't know the answer just yet. The answer is yes. She'd have to throw the object faster. When I approach questions like this in physics, I think of what I call limiting cases. For example, I ask myself what if gravity were 0? Well, if there was no gravity, the object wouldn't be attracted to the earth at all. If you threw it in some direction it would just go floating forever. As I increase that gravity, I can see that, okay, maybe the object will start to get pulled towards earth. If I make gravity huge, almost infinite, the object will always be attracted to the center of the earth. It seems like the trend is that if gravity is stronger, you have to throw it a little harder. If it's weaker, you don't have to throw it as hard to maintain the circular orbit. Now, remember when Dr. Fara said that there were 2 reasons why the Principia Mathematica was truly revolutionary? We can now go to the first one. [Dr. Fara] It establishes one single law of gravitation that extends right through the whole universe. Before that--well, a couple of hundred years before that-- everybody followed the Aristotelian idea that there was one set of laws on earth and a completely different set of laws up in the heavens, so that in the heaves everything is perfection and unchanging and eternal, and on earth everything is changing and corrupt. Galileo first but the Newton brought all those changing ideas together and said, no, there's one force that extends right through the universe. Now, depending on how you look at this, this is either a very humbling or very awe-inspiring moment. One one hand, the laws that govern the chaos and disorder and confusion that people see on earth are the same that govern the motions of the heavens. But looking at it another way, the laws that govern the perfection of the motion of the heavens are the same that control the chaos and disorder on earth. It's either very scary or very beautiful depending on how you look at it, but either way it must have been a very exciting time in physics. Now that we've examined gravity a little bit, we can start to think more about motion. Now we're accepting gravity as a law of nature. All objects are mutually attracted to one another. And so when we think of a falling apple, we can draw an arrow which represents the force of gravity, and I've used the subscript g is indicate that this force is due to gravity. From Galileo, we know exactly how this object will move. It's going to accelerate downwards at 10 m/s². What's really fascinating, though, is that eventually this apple will hit the ground and come to rest. So, let's think about this apple, this motionless apple at rest and think about what does it mean for an object to be motionless? To examine motionlessness, let's do an experiment in space. Since we know that the laws of physics on earth are the same as those in the heavens, any experiment we can contrive that occurs in space should teach us about something that could also occur on the earth. Now, for this thought experiment, I want you to imagine drifting out alone in the cold depths of space. Actually, for this experiment, I want us to be so deep in space that we can't even see the stars or the sun or the earth. We are truly floating in the middle of nowhere. As far as we can tell, we are completely motionless. Now, let's say you turn on your flashlight, because every good scientist floating in the depths of space remembers to bring their flashlight. You turn on your flashlight, and off in the distance you see another astronaut floating floating in the depths of space. You're not alone. In fact, this other astronaut is slowing drifting towards you. Now, I wonder what this astronaut was thinking before you turned the light on. I wonder if she thought she was motionless or if she thought she was moving. It's clear that relative to each other you're moving towards each other. But it's not clear to me who's moving. Maybe you know. So, I'm going to think about this question. Which of these two astronauts is moving? Is astronaut 1 the one whose truly moving? Is astronaut 2 the one who's actually moving? Maybe they're both moving Maybe neither of them is moving. Maybe they're both motionless. Or, is it impossible to say? I want you to really think about this question, and don't worry if you get it wrong because this is not a completely intuitive concept. Well, the answer is that given this information, it's completely impossible to say. Even though I explicitly said that astronaut 1 was at rest and astronaut 2 was moving was moving towards astronaut 1, but that situation could equally well be described as astronaut 1 going towards astronaut 2 with astronaut 2 at rest, so what can we say about the motion of astronauts 1 and 2. Well, one thing we can definitely say that both of these space explorers will agree on is that the astronauts are definitely getting closer, but this is interesting that this argument can even show you at all. Astronaut 1 thought that he was motionless. Astronaut 2 thought she was motionless. Yet, clearly, there is some relative motion between them. This points to something funny going on between motion at a constant speed and this idea of being at rest. Why don't we go back to earth to probe this question a little more deeply? Let's take a ride on the train of physics. Now this is a very special train. It moves along the tracks at a perfectly constant speed, we call it V and unlike every train you've ever ridden this train doesn't bump, it doesn't sway from side to side, it goes perfectly straight. Now let's say you want to do an experiment on the train, to figure out what the difference is between motion at a constant speed and being at rest. One experiment you might want to do with the help of your mohawked friend is to drop an apple. While the train is moving at constant speed just see what trajectory the apple takes as it falls. My question is from your point of view, so here you are watching this experiment on this train as it goes rocketing down the tracks. when you watch your friend drop this apple which of these trajectories best describes remember from your point of view not from some external observers standing on the tracks, what trajectory the apple will take, this one, this one or this one. And the answer is actually this one. If you don't believe me, you should absolutely try this out. Get in a car or on a train and while going along at constant speed, drop an object in front of yourself. You will see that it falls straight down. Now, this may cause you to ask yourself what is going on? I'm seeing the same results when I drop an apple on a train that's moving pretty fast as I see when I drop an apple on the ground, and the ground is stationary, right? Well, in fact, in physics motion at a constant speed is absolutely indistinguishable from being at rest. If you were on this train and you boarded up all the windows, and again remember it's moving perfectly smoothly but at a constant speed, there is no experiment that you could do to determine whether you're moving or at rest. That is pretty mind-blowing, I think. We saw with our thought experiment in space that our two astronauts with no gravity or any forces acting on them couldn't distinguish between motion and rest. Now we're ready to learn Newton's First Law of Motion. Remember our space example. We saw our two astronauts with no forces acting on them, because there was no gravity in our empty universe. They couldn't distinguish between motion in a straight line at constant speed and being at rest. On the train we saw that there was absolutely no experiment that we could do which could distinguish between being at rest and traveling at a constant speed. Newton took these kind of thoughts and formulated his first law, which states that every object will always continue in its state of rest or constant velocity motion, unless it's acted on by an external force. Now, you may be saying to yourself, "What about an apple on the ground?" Surely, that's an object at rest, but it's gravity pulling down on it? Well, the answer to both of your questions is, yes, it is at rest, and, yes, gravity still is pulling down. This is a very interesting question and one that we're going to cover a little bit later in the unit. Stay tuned to find out what's going on here. Before we move on, let's do one more thought experiment. What if instead of moving at a constant velocity, the train was moving at a constant acceleration? So, every second it's increasing by the same speed as the previous second. What would the trajectory of the apple be then? Select the most appropriate trajectory. The answer is the apple will actually appear to move backwards. Now, this was a tricky one, but you can verify it for yourself. If you drive or if you know someone who does, get in the car, take an apple and wait at a red light. Once that light turns green, accelerate forwards and drop the apple. You'll see that it actually appears to land behind where you released the apple from. When we accelerate this way, the apple appears to move backwards. When we accelerate that way, likewise. The apple moves backwards. Of course, if you're going to do this, make sure you're safe about it and make sure your car has wheels. What's really interesting about what we found here is that acceleration seems to be somehow important. Objects at rest behave in the same way as objects moving at constant speed but acceleration is important. Things no longer behave the same when what we call our reference frame starts accelerating. We also saw that acceleration was somehow special when we looked at Galileo who found that all objects fall at a constant acceleration. Clearly, acceleration is a very important quantity, and by the end of today you will understand it very deeply. We know that acceleration is somehow special, but how is acceleration special? Let's think of a cart, and we want to accelerate this cart. Accelerating it would make us happy. If we want to design an experiment to test what factors affect acceleration--let's think. When I push this cart what factors will control at what rate it accelerates? Does it matter how hard I push? Does it matter what material the cart is made of? Does the mass of the cart matter? Will a heavier cart maybe accelerate at a different rate? Does the color of the cart matter? Will a red paint job make the cart accelerate faster? To get you thinking about this, I want you to choose all that you think apply. When you see the answer, you maybe surprised at whether or not it matches with your intuition. Well, how hard we push definitely matters. If I push really hard, the cart could accelerate really fast. The mass of the cart also matters. It's much harder to get a very massive cart, a heavy cart, moving than it is to get a light cart. The color, of course, doesn't matter, and the material it turns out doesn't matter either. You might have thought that a lightweight material, well, maybe that will accelerate faster. But then we're changing two variables. You'd be changing both the material and the mass of the cart. When we're thinking in terms of designing an experiment, we want to make sure that the variables we alter we're altering in isolation. If I have two carts that are the same mass, it doesn't matter what the material is made of. We’ve just seen that acceleration somehow depends on force and mass. We're going to design an experiment to figure out how. First I want to find out how does acceleration relate to force. Maybe a is proportional to the force. Maybe it's proportional to 1/F. Or maybe it's proportional to the force squared or something else. I just don't know yet. But we can figure it out with an experiment. In this experiment, we're going to take a 10 kg cart--that's its mass-- and we're going to apply differing forces on it. We're then going to time how long it takes to go 10 m, and using some of our motion equations that we learned in the last unit, we're going to figure out the acceleration. Once we get enough data, we can see how acceleration depends on force. For the first one in the experiment, we'll push with a force of 10 Newtons, and this is a new unit, but it's the unit we use to measure force, and of course named after Isaac Newton. We find that it takes a time of 4.47 sec. Now, what must the acceleration have been? You may want to use this equation, and remember that the cart is starting from rest. Enter your answer here. Well, let's use this equation and plug in what we know. Δy, the distance covered, is 10 m. Plugging in the rest of what we know-- this is 0 because the initial velocity is 0. Acceleration is what we're solving for, and we know the time. When we solve this equation for a, we get an acceleration of 1 m/s². Here's the rest of the data. We increase the force and the time it takes to go 10 m goes down. We keep mass fixed at 10 kg the entire time. This is a 2-part quiz. I want to know how acceleration depends on force and mass. I want you to choose the best option. The way you're going to do that is by completing this table, though you don't have to enter anything in, and determining how does acceleration scale with force. I think it's a tricky problem, but you can do it. You'll probably need this equation to calculate the acceleration, and once you've filled this out on your own, you should be able to calculate how acceleration scales with force. Is it proportional to 1/F, proportional to the force itself, or something else. If I use this equation and calculate the accelerations, I get 2, 3, and 4. Think back on how we calculate these proportionality problems. We set them up as ratios, and we realized that sometimes this ratio needs an exponent. Maybe that exponent is 1 or 2 or -1 or -2. Let's see what exponent we need here. Let's compare this data to that data. This will be our A1 and F1--A1, F1-- and this'll be A2 and F2. Well, this just has 4/1 = 40/10, and I'm keeping in mind that I might need an exponent. These 0s cancel and now we just have 4/1 = 4/1 to something. Well, these are identical so this something is just 1. This is exactly the definition of proportionality. A is proportional to F. We've seen how acceleration scales with force--they're proportional-- but what about mass? How does mass affect acceleration? The experiment I want to do now is slightly different. Instead of changing the force, we're going to change the mass and leave the force the same through all the trials of our experiment. Can you look at this data, keeping in mind that, of course, the force is staying the same, calculate the accelerations, and then tell me how does the acceleration scale with m or how does it depend on the mass. Which of these best describes how acceleration scales with m? And you may need this equation to help you out. Well, using this equation I can calculate the accelerations. Notice what's happened. When I double the mass, the acceleration is cut in half. When I got from 10 to 30, tripling the mass, the acceleration is reduced by 1/3. Likewise when I quadruple it, it's 1/4. This is exactly the idea of inverse proportionality. You also could have used the same ratio method we used last time. Now we get to discover the root cause of motion. We get to answer the question how does motion occur. Can you, using these conditions we've derived here, tell me which of these three equations describes motion? And the answer is that F = MA. So, we have it. the equation of Newtonian physics. Force times acceleration--what a beautiful equation. It says that the cause of acceleration is force. When I apply a force to a mass, I get acceleration. This one equation when properly applied can be used to derive almost all of Newtonian physics. So, congratulations. Now that you have this equation, you're done. You might as well stop. If you can do all these things, what's left to learn. See you in the next class, I guess. But that's not entirely true, because even though this equation is underlying all of these things, we still need to know how to use it. So, how do we use F = ma? Well, let's think of Galileo. He taught us how to describe motion mathematically. He discovered that all objects one earth fall at a constant acceleration--10 m/s². He knew that a free-falling object's distance covered is proportional to time squared. He sort of answered the how of motion. Newton, on the other hand, taught us that it's forces that cause motion, and he represented that with an equation. He sort of answered the why of motion or at least began to answer the why. Now, unfortunately, Galileo died shortly after Newton was born, but Udacity has recently uncovered a series of time traveling text messages between Isaac Newton and Galileo Galilei. We were able to recover one screen shot from this incredibly historic and terribly anachronistic text conversation. Newton starts by thanking Galileo for giving him some shoulders to stand on. "No problem," says Galieleo. Wants to know why. Newton, of course, is getting a little cocky. Galileo is impressed. Newton tells him about F = ma. Galileo, of course, immediately understands the consequences. And then Newton--oh no, we got cut off there. I guess we'll have to extrapolate and figure the rest out ourselves. So, to see where Newton may have been going with that conversation, let's go back to Pisa. Let's quickly remind ourselves what Galileo knew about an object falling to the ground. Well, Galileo knew that objects fall at a constant acceleration. Can you tell me here, do you remember what that constant acceleration is on earth? It's 10 m/s². We abbreviate that with the letter g. Little g means 10 m/s². What did Newton know? He knows that the cause of any acceleration must be a what? Can you fill in the blank with the appropriate word? It must be a force. Forces cause accelerations. So, Newton knows that F = ma, and Galileo knows that the acceleration on earth is equal to g. For an object falling in free fall, what must be the force pulling it to the ground? Which of the following could we replace the F with to have this equation agree with this equation? Select the best answer. Well, let's see. Let's try mg. If we replace F with mg, then we get mg = ma. Well, that's easy. The m's just cancel. The mass of the object, it turns out, doesn't matter at all. Isn't that a beautiful cancellation? Disproving Aristotle with a simple mathematical cancellation. g = a, which is exactly what we wanted to find, so this force must be equal to m g. We give this force the subscript g to remind us that the cause of this downward force is gravity, and the acceleration due to gravity is this 10 m/s². We can see that no matter what your mass is, and we can see that regardless of your mass, the mass cancels out. Acceleration on earth will always be equal to g--pretty amazing. Now, let's think. What happens when this object hits the ground? Well, now it's no longer accelerating, so Galileo's statement doesn't make any sense. In fact, Galileo didn't spend too much time thinking about objects at rest. He was much more interested in motion. So, let's think. What would Newton be saying now? Now that the balls are at rest, the acceleration is 0. According to this equation, which is a law of physics, it must always be true. A 0 acceleration must correspond to a force of 0. So, what happened? Did gravity just turn off all of a sudden? No, of course not. The ball is still being pulled down by gravity, and I'm going to label gravity as mg from now on where m is the mass of this ball and g is the acceleration due to gravity, that 10 m/s². What's going on? According to this force diagram, the ball ought to be accelerating downwards. There's a force downwards. Well, here we're saved by the fact that force is what's called a vector. I'm representing this force with an arrow, because this force has a direction associated with it--downwards. By adding a force in the opposite direction, we can actually cancel this force. Which of the following arrows do you think best represents the force needed to cancel this downwards mg. Choose what you think is the best answer. Well, we know the total force must be 0, because it's not accelerating, because it's not accelerating, and the acceleration is therefore 0. This means that downward forces must equal upward forces. That's the only way these could balance, and that means that this is the best answer. If this one were the answer, mg would over power it, and that would indicate and downward accelerating object. If this were the correct answer, this force is bigger than g, and it would be accelerating upward. This might be the correct answer if, let's say, we were pulling on a rope and accelerating the ball upwards. The question now is what's causing this unknown force, which I've labeled with a question mark subscript. We know that this force is being caused by gravity and the mutual attraction of all objects, so gravity is pulling this down, but I don't know what's causing this. Is the cause of this unknown force some sort of antigravity or is it a gravitational attraction to something above the ball? Maybe Galileo's hand or something out in space. Or is the ground somehow pushing upwards on the ball Choose what you think is the best answer. And, again, don't worry if you get this one wrong. This is to get you thinking. Before I tell you the answer, I want you to get off your chair and push down on the ground. When you do, you can actually feel the ground pushing back on your hand. It may be confusing at first to think that the ground can somehow push on something, but it can--it absolutely can, and it does, and it's this pushing of the ground that prevents this ball from falling through the earth or you from fall through your chair. Now, one important thing to notice is that this force of the ground pushing up on the ball is always going to be perpendicular to the ground. This is some sort of perpendicular force. In fact, let's call it FN where N means normal. Normal is just another word for perpendicular. Before we move on, I want to point out something truly beautiful here. We just discovered a force. We discovered that force by having real trust in our model, F = ma. If this is true and there really is a force downwards, there has to be, must be, a corresponding force upwards. We call that the normal force. In fact, we can verify the existence of the normal force with something as simple as a scale, like the one you might find in your bathroom. Here you are, some person, your mass is m, and you're standing on a scale. I don't like this picture, because people are hard to draw. Let's simplify a bit. Here you are, standing on a scale again. This time I've drawn you as a box. No offense. I don't think you look like a box. But it's just easier and we can find that drawing things this way will actually make solving later problems much easier. We know that gravity is pulling you downwards with a strength mg. That mg, by the way, is what we colloquially call your weight. The scale, of course, is pushing up with a normal force. Now, let's think. How big is that normal force? Is it bigger than mg, equal to mg, or less than mg? Remember, the total or net force on an object is equal to its mass times the object's acceleration. Choose the best answer. Well, in these case the normal force must be equal to mg. If the normal force were bigger, the mass would be accelerating upwards, and if it were smaller mg would win and it'd be accelerating downwards. Now, let's do the experiment again, instead of just standing on the scale, you're standing on the scale and the ground, so your weight is distributed between the two. If I'm going to draw this force diagram and once again I'm going to represent you as a box, gravity is still pulling you down, that's your weight but now there's two points of contact. There's the normal force from the scale which I'll abbreviate FNS for scale and is the normal force from the ground, FNG. Now, I want to know how big is FNS, bigger than, equal to, or less than mg. Choose your answer. Well, let's think acceleration is zero which means force is up, must be balanced by forces down. What are the forces up, well these two combined. Our force down is just mg and we're looking for Fns and check it out. The normal force provided by the scale which is how hard the scale is pushing up on you, is equal to the weight mg minus the normal force from the ground, and that's how hard the ground is pushing up. Since, I'm subtracting something from mg, this gets smaller. Now it turns out in this first situation, the scale would have accurately measured your weight. If you weigh 70 kg, the scale would have read 70 kg because FN was equal to mg. In this case, the scale would have read less than 70 kg. So, what the scale is actually measuring is not your weight. They're measuring how hard they have to push up, so that you don't fall through. Pretty cool. If your brain is getting a little fried, stick with me for a little bit longer. We've got one more thing to talk about with motionlessness, which is actually surprisingly fascinating. I want to point out one thing from before. An object that is motionless or at rest, well, from a force point of view, it's in the exact same situation as an object moving at constant speed. From here on out, whenever I talk about an object that's at rest, we could also be talking about an object with a constant speed. It's just a little easier to visualize an object that's not moving, and the key to motionlessness is realizing that when an object is at rest, its acceleration is 0. F=ma tells us that 0 acceleration means 0 total force. 0 total force doesn't necessarily mean that there's no force acting on an object at all. All it means is that any upwards forces must be balanced by corresponding downwards forces. Likewise, leftwards forces must be balanced by rightwards forces. Let's take a look at Aayush and Brent who are each pushing on this cart. This cart has mass m and we'll say that the mass is 5 kg and right now the cart is exactly at rest. They're both pushing very hard but the cart is at rest. I should mention that most of these questions we do, we're going to ignore something called friction. Friction is the force you feel between your hands when you rub them together. It's a real force and it's something we can talk about, but to make matters simpler, we'll often ignore it. So this is a frictionless world for now--so let's go ahead and take a look at all the forces acting on this cart. I'm going to draw a force diagram. Well, the first force I'm going to draw is mg, and in this case, mg is going to equal this 5 mg<i>g and we know g is 10 ms² which gives me a total of 50 N</i> which gives me a total of 50 N and Newtons are the unit of force. The ground must also be pushing upwards with a normal force. Aayush is doing his best and he's pushing to the right, we'll label that Fa for Aayush and Brent is also doing his best pushing back to the left and.we'll label that Fb. Noticed how I've drawn these arrows--you know Aayush is pushing from the left to the right--I don't draw an arrow like this. For me, it's much easier to see what's going on if the arrow is coming from the object and moving out. So we know that the cart is at rest and I've given you a couple of the forces. I told you that mg is 50 N and I've told you that Aayush is pushing with a force of 100 N. Can you use this data as well as what we learned up here to fill in these two answers. Well let's make upwards forces have to balance downwards forces. The only downwards force we have is mg, 50 N that must be balanced by the normal force, so that has to also be 50 N. We can do the same thinking for left and right to show that this force, Brent's pushing force must equal Aayush's, so that's 100 N. Now, this problem wasn't too difficult because all of the forces where in were in what we could call the xy plane. They were all either vertical or horizontal. Let's see what happens when we make things a little more complicated. Let's make things interesting. Let's introduce some trigonometry into the equation. So here's Robin and you can tell by her determined face that she really wants to push this cart through this brick wall and it seems like she is not having very much luck. In this example, something is different from last time. Robin isn't pushing exactly to the right or exactly to the left. She is pushing at some angle and let's call that angle here α. I'm sure you can already see the triangles forming in your head. Let's take a look at what's going on. Over here I'm going to draw a diagram for the cart, the force diagram. Of course as always we have the carts weight playing downwards and noticed that I didn't even tell you what m was, you don't even care. We have seen normal force pointing upwards. We know because the car isn't falling to the ground. We have Robin who is pushing, well looks like she is pushing down into the right. I'm actually going to put that force over here and let's label it FR for Robin, and we can't forget that the wall is pushing to the left. Of course if the wall weren't there the cart would be free to roll but since it is and it's stopping the motion, the wall itself must be providing a force. Let's call that FW for wall. Now when I look at this force diagram something jumps out to me. I've got these forces which are both vertical. The wall force which is exactly to the left and then the force of Robin pushing which is causing me some pain. It's not to the right. It's not straight down. It's some combination of right and down. Wait a second though, I know how to handle this. This is just me breaking down the vector into it's components. Let's make a right triangle with this would be the hypotenuse. Well here's a right triangle and now we see we get our angle α back again and let's label these sides. Well this is the horizontal component of Robin pushing and this is the vertical component. I'm going to label them FRx and FRy. One thing that's important to remember is that by writing FR as these two together, we can now get rid of FR. This is the exact same trick we did last unit when we had some initial velocity and we have some angle alpha. We broke that velocity into x and y components. You are doing exact same thing but with forces and just like with velocity once we have expressed it in terms of components x and y, we didn't care about this guy anymore. Likewise, we're now using the x and y component of Robin's pushing and we're not going to think about this too much anymore. But we still have to answer the question, "What are these values for the x and y components of Robin's pushing?" Let me give you some numbers so that this is less abstract. Let's say that the force Robin is pushing with is a 100 N total that's FR and this angle she's pushing at is 30°. Can you use your knowledge of trig to tell me what is FRx and what is FRy? Enter your answers here and here to one decimal place. I'll be very impress if you can get this right on your first try. Well, let's take a look at this triangle a little more closely. Let's find FRY first. This is the opposite side of this angle and we already know the hypotenuse. It's 100 N. What trade function that opposite the hypotenuse, the sine. So if I solve this for FRY, plug in my 100 N and my 30°, I get an answer of 50 N I can use similar reasoning to find FRX. This time it's the cosine and this gives me a value of 86.6 N. All right so let's clean this up a bit. We've broken FR down into x and y component. That means we don't need FR anymore, instead, we're going to replace it with FRx, which points to the right and FRy, which points down. Let's say, I'll tell you the mass is 10 kg. Can you fill out the rest of these five forces? We already calculated FRy and x, what's mg? What's the normal force? What's the force the wall is pushing on the cart with? Remember the acceleration is equal to zero and one thing to be very careful of is the normal force. It may not be exactly equal to mg like it was last time. This is a tricky problem but if you get it right, very impressive. Good luck! Well let's see, to calculate mg, we multiply m, which is 10 kg by g which is 10 m/s². 10<i>10 is a 100 N. Before we go to Fn, let's do the wall first.</i> If the right word force is 86.6 N and the object isn't accelerating, well the left word force must be bouncing it exactly. These two forces are the only horizontal forces that must be exactly equal. So this is 86.6 N. We also know that for opposite that rests, forces up must bounce forces down and for us that means that the normal force that goes up must equal not just mg, which goes down, but also mg + FRy. Those are the two downward forces and that gives me a value of 150 N. This was a very tricky problem, if you follow along, you're doing great and if not go back and watch again If Isaac Newton is here today, he would say "Congratulations!" This is not easy stuff and you're doing great. Now, we're about to move into motion where things are actually accelerating. If your mind is feeling a little exhausted, now is the great time to take a break, maybe go and try to push a shopping cart into a brick wall. That being said, you should still come back soon because what we were about to cover are some of the problems that I think are the most fun to solve in all of Physics. In the last problem, we broke down Robin's pushing force. We broke it into an x and y component, we had to do some trig but that was okay. Speaking of breaking things down, what if Robin succeeds? What if she breaks this wall apart? The force provided by the wall, well, of course, it has to go away. And what do we have now? Now, we have unbalanced forces. And when I say unbalance, what I mean is that this force doesn't have a companion force to the left. We are now entering the world of acceleration. Now, how do we solve the problem of what is this cart's acceleration going to be? Well, we already know that these forces balance this force. There's not going to be any vertical acceleration, ay = 0, ax on the other hand will not equal zero. It will equal something much more interesting and let's calculate. Well, the simplest thing, F = ma, but now, the only force we're using is the unbalanced force and that's equal to 86.6 N. I know the mass is 10, and when I solve, I get a = 8.66 m/s². Sorry, I did that one on my own. You have a chance to this next one. For this problem, we have a sad Galileo. You can tell because well he's dropped his object and now he wants to get it back. Unfortunately, the leaning tower is very high and he doesn't want to walk all the way down. Luckily, Galileo has a friend--this makes him slightly happier but he still wants this thing back up here. He's going to repeat his experiment--that's how you get good data. Good thing that Galileo also has a rope, and let's say his friend ties this rope to the object. Now, we're talking. Now, Galileo's feeling pretty weak today. He can only pull upwards with the force of 25N. Can you tell me what would be the acceleration of the apple? I highly recommend you draw a force diagram, and when you do, once you get an answer--enter here. Well, let's try a diagram. As always, I represent the object as just a box. The first thing I'm going to try is M₁g downwards. Note that M is 2 here and g is always 10, so this is going to equal 20N. We say that he can pull with the force of 25N--that means the net upwards force would be 25 minus 20. Let's call that FTotal. 25-20=5N, and now we're making progress. We know that F=ma and the key and this is where you may have made a mistake is that this the force we used--the total force after all the balancing has worked itself out 5N. And when I worked this out, I find the acceleration is 2.5 m/s². All right! Let's do a more challenging one. Now, this is a really tricky question and that's why we saved it for last. I always save the good stuff for last. This problem involves two masses connect by a string which is draped over this pulley, so it's free to rotate. What we're going to do is solve this question algebraically to get an equation that tells us "If we let the system go, what will happen? Will it accelerate counterclockwise or just stay in this sort of equilibrium where nothing moves?" In regardless of the motion, I want to know some numbers. I want to be able to quantify this. What exactly will the acceleration be? Let's see if we can solve this. When we look at a complicated problem like this, we don't want to get scared. The first thing we want to do is make some sense of it in our heads. once we do that, we might have some bright idea about how we approach it quantitatively. When I'm doing this sort of thought experiment in my head, one question I'm going to ask is--what happens when the masses are equal? Will this whole system be motionless? Will it accelerate clockwise? That would mean this guy goes up and this guy goes down. Or will it accelerate counterclockwise? That would mean this mass will go up, this one would go down, and the pulley would spin that way. I'm also going want to think about "What will happen when m₁ is the bigger mass? This guy is heavier than this guy. Or when M₁ is the smaller mass?" Can you, for each of these three cases, tell me what you expect the motion to look like? Well, if the masses are equal, there's no way to favor one direction out of the other--it'll remain motionless. If M₁ is bigger, it's going to go downwards--so that would be counterclockwise. And if M₁ is smaller, then M₂ will tend to go down--that's clockwise and there we go. At the end of the day what we want is an equation of motion describing how these masses will accelerate. Before we jumped into solving the problem, there's still a little more benefit we can get from doing more thought experiments. Let's see what will happen when M₂ is much bigger than M₁, for example may be M₂ is a grand piano and M₁ is a slice of apple pie. This is a sort of silly example but I'm trying to make a somewhat serious point. We can push nature to its limits in our head but we never have to set up this experiment. We just have to think what's going to happen. Well, we already know when M₂ is greater than M₁, the system accelerates clockwise, of course. The piano pulls more than the pie, of course. In fact, when M₂ is so much bigger than M₁, we can even estimate its acceleration. So in this situation now, I want you to tell me--what do you think is the best estimate for how quickly this piano works all the way downwards and therefore, how quickly the pie works all the way upwards. Is it 10, 5, 2 or 1 m/s². Now, I want you to remember that a free falling object accelerates downwards at 10 m/s². Well, this is essentially a free-falling object. The pie is going to have almost no effect on slowing down the piano. This is the best guess. Now, let's go ahead and make an equation that describes this motion and we've to check to make sure that it fits all of these, let's call them, test cases. How do we solve this problem? Well, there's two objects we really care about--the two masses. The pulley we're largely ignoring--the only purpose of the pulley is to redirect where this rope is going. Well, two objects means we have to do two diagrams. Let's think of M₁ first. Well, of course, there's weight going downwards. Every object has its M₁g. But then the rope is also providing a force and that force is called tension. Now remember we're dealing with the case where M₂ M₁. So I want to know what's the relationship between this weight force going downwards and this tension force. Are these M₁g = FT? Is the M₁g > FT? Or is the M₁g < FT? So what do you think is the correct answer. Well, we said earlier that the system is accelerating clockwise--that means M₁ must be going upwards. If it's accelerating upwards, this force has to dominate over this force-- the FT must be bigger than M₁g. Now, we can solve for the acceleration of block 1. Well, the acceleration is going to be caused by how much bigger this force is in this force or FT - m₁g and that's going to equal m₁ a₁. Now, the problem is we can't just go and solve this for a₁, not yet anyways. This equation has two unknowns, the a₁ and the tension. One equation will never be able to solve for two unknowns. Maybe we can get more information by analyzing the second block. Well, let's do the diagram. And before we go any further, I'm going to move this equation over here to emphasize that the blank is at block 1. Now, previously we showed the FT is bigger than m₁g since it's accelerating that way. Well, m₂ we know must be accelerating this way, so m₂g must be bigger than FT I've crossover an important point here--is this FT here the same as this FT here? and the answer is yes, it is. A rope always maintains the same tension throughout. Maybe you prove it to yourself by trying to think about what would happen if somehow the rope's tension change. What would happen at the boundary point where the tension change? That's something you should talk about in the forums. Well, now the force doing the acceleration is how much bigger m₂g is over FT and we can write a very similar equation m₂g - FT = m₂a₂, net force = mass acceleration, and once again we have two unknowns, a₂ and FT, well that consist a total of three unknowns, FT, a₁, and a₂. Two equations can never solve three unknowns, but hey, I realized something, these blocks are connected by a string. Any motion downwards from this guy has to correspond to motion upwards from this guy. That means this acceleration has to be identical to this one. We've done a little strange here what we called acceleration on this side, positive when it's up, and on this side, positive when it's down, but that's okay, we can do that. So, now instead of the a₁ and a₂, I can just write a. We're almost there--we're almost at something very cool because now we only have two unknowns and two equations can solve two unknowns. I'm going to go through this algebra--so if you are an ace in solving this sort of systems of equation you can skip this part, but for those who aren't, I'm going to walk you through it. So, here we have our two equations. I'd like to write them one above the other to make thing a little simpler for me. Now my goal is to eventually know what the acceleration of the system is. I'm going to do that by, first, solving for the tension in one of these equations and then plugging in and let me show you what I mean by that, so let's take this equation. If I move this term to this side, I find that the tension is equal m₁a and a is still unknown plus m₁g. I'm going to plug this in, this value of the tension, in to here. The idea of being that, now I'll get this equation in terms of only one unknown, a, and FT won't show up anymore. So rewrite m₂g minus FT, but now I'm using this, now equals m₂a. Let's just distribute this minus sign and remove the parenthesis. Well now I'm solving for a, so let's group all the a terms together. I'm going to move this a over here, okay? So, now that we've done that, I'm going to take out the common factors of each of these terms and each of these terms. For example, each of these terms has g in it and each of these terms has an a in it, and now we're really close. Let's divide both sides by this term here, and here is our answer and this is truly a thing of beauty and let me explain why. This is such a beautiful equation. There is so much intuition goes in here. And there is a few reasons why I love this equation. First, it says that acceleration is just your normal acceleration due to gravity times some multiplier and then we can think about, what is this multiplier. Well, this multiplier depends on the difference of the two masses. If this masses are identical, well subtracting them will give you zero and you'll have no motion. Acceleration will be zero exactly like we expected. If m₂ is bigger than m₁, well this will be positive in the denominator that means we'll have positive acceleration which we defined as clockwise Exactly what we expected when m₂ > m₁. Likewise, if m₁ > m₂, it will be negative which becomes counterclockwise and finally, in the case where let's say m₂ is > m₁. Let's say m₂ was 1000 kg and m₁ was 1 1000-1, might as well just call it 1000 and ignore the 1. Likewise,1000+1, who cares about the 1, ignore it. We have the a = g m₂/m₂, that cancels. Our acceleration is equal to g 10 m/s². I love that problem. I hope you like it as much as I do. There is going to be a lot more learning to do on the problem set. You are not done here, I promise, but I think what you've done today is really amazing. Good work. Wow, congratulations. At the end of unit two we left off with Galileo as the king of motion. In this unit, Newton taught us at a very deep level that it's unbalanced force which causes objects to move. Now we shouldn't view Newton's description of why objects move as the fall of Galileo. Galileo's mathematical descriptions still accurately describe how objects move and explain why objects in free fall follow parabolic trajectories. We also dug deep into what it means for an object to be at rest. It means that the forces on that object balance perfectly. We also learn that from the point of view of force, motion at constant speed is identical to an object being at rest. Next time we will go to the Netherlands to learn about work and energy and answer the question, how can we keep the Netherlands dry? See you in class. We're here in Amsterdam. Today, a ship can travel at sea with relative safety. But in the 17th century, many of the ships that left this harbor never came back. The reason so many sailors' lives were lost is because the crew answer a simple question--where are we. In this unit, we'll learn about simple harmonic motion and in doing so, we'll learn one method for determining the position xe. Answering the question of where am I when you're at sea is not so easy, but luckily you'll only need to know two pieces of information. The first is latitude and may be you remember from Unit 1 that lines and latitude run parallel and this 0° line of latitude is known as the equator. The second piece of information we need is longitude. The lines of longitude run from north to south and since they run this way, they actually tells us our position east to west. Now it turns out that one of these is very difficult to find and the one is very simple. And let me give you a hint, you have used may be in one of the previous units an effective method of calculating one of these--are the latitude or longitude. Can you tell me which one? Latitude--you know exactly how to calculate latitude. In Unit 1, we talked about the Tropic of Cancer, but I'm not sure if we actually used that word. The city of Siena where Eratosthenes saw the sun shining vertically down the row is located on the Tropic of Cancer. The sun isn't always directly above the Tropic of Cancer as it happened to be on the summer solstice. In fact, due to the tilt of the earth, the sun can be directly overhead anywhere between the Tropic of Cancer, the equator, and another imaginary line 23.5° south of the equator known as the Tropic of Capricorn. The sun is directly over the Tropic of Cancer on the summer solstice and directly over the equator and what's known as the equinoxes--it's directly over the other tropic on the winter solstice. I'm using a northern hemisphere bias here. If you're in the southern hemisphere, you'd probably refer to this as the winter solstice. Now thinking that's what we did in Unit 1, let's say you're standing at some unknown latitude. Where one where your latitude would just be this angle here which I've labeled α, and let's say it happens to be one of the equinoxes said the sun is directly above the equator and we do an experiment. You look at a vertical object, measure its shadow, and do some trigonometry to find that the angle here I've labeled α is equal to 40°. So I want you to tell me for this measured angle of 40° and remember this is when the sun is highest in the sky and the sun is directly overhead on the equator so it's one of the equinoxes, what is your latitude. Enter your answer in degrees here. Well, this one is not so bad. The answer is 40° and let's look at why. Well, here comes the sun's rays, arriving in parallel all over the surface of the earth. These lines are supposed to be parallel. Well, let's replace our little guy with just a vertical object. Well, check it out-as our rays drawing in some parallel lines has really helped us solve this problem because look at what we have here--our angle α which by definition--that's the longitude-- that's how we define longitude and that's exactly equal to this angle here, which we also happen to call α there, but hey, good coincidence they're the exact same angle. And so if we measure this angle to be 40°, this must also be 40°. We'll see things change a little bit. If it's not on the equinox, it gets a bit more tricky but I think you can handle that and you'll do that in the premise that at the end of this unit. So we're halfway then--we've got one of the two numbers we need to know our position on the earth--latitude. So, this unit is about covered up but not quite. Longitude is much more difficult. Do you have some intuition for why longitude is so much more difficult. Let's take a look at these lines. Here we've drawn five lines of the longitude and in the middle we have, of course, the equator. Now, the equator wasn't chosen randomly. The earth rotates around an imaginary axis that goes through the center of the earth. Now the equator define this sort of flat plane through the middle of the earth-- that makes a right angle with the axis of rotation. The equator isn't some sense real. It's based on actual physical property of the earth. Now let's see. Which of these lines is the 0 line of longitude. Is it line 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5, and I've labeled them here. If you can't tell these to my drawing, you can also select this option. And the answer is--you just cannot tell. It could be any of these. It could be a line that I haven't even drawn. The truth of the matter is longitude is in many ways completely arbitrary. Right now the prime meridian or 0° longitude line passes through Greenwich, England. In the past, it's passed through Rome; Florence, Italy; Paris, France; Stockholm Sweden and many, many other locations. The fact that this line is so arbitrary, actually hints that how difficult longitude in general is to calculate.especially when you're at sea. One method to get from A to B across a vast body of water is known as dead reckoning. So what's dead reckoning. In dead reckoning, we start with a known location--city A. Then we're going to keep track of our ship's heading and its speed to determine where in this route from A to B we might actually B located. So for example, let's say our ship's started off moving for 1 hour east at a speed of 10 km/h. Well, east is this way and 10 km/h for 1 hour means I've moved 10 km, and I can follow this sort of thinking as long as I keep good track of duration, heading and speed. So 2 hours at southeast at 8 km/h but by 1 hour south at 5--so you get a feel for where you are just by using this sort of dead reckoning method. Of course, this method has some problems. For example, how do you know the speed of your boat. So how do you calculate speed? Hopefully, your boat is going forwards to the water with some velocity we'll call v. Well, actually anything use to calculate your speed at sea is called a log and why is it called that. Well, the reason it's called a log is because what mariners used to do was throw an actual log over the back of the boat. They would let the log float as the boat continue forward and is it did this, they plant some rope. Tied in this rope were some knots and by counting the number of knots, they can refer the boat speed. This is where the term knots comes from in reference to a ship's speed. Now you maybe saying this is a ridiculous way to measure speed. How accurate could this whole procedure be anyways--well, you're right. This is now the best way of measuring speed, but it was somewhat functional at the time. So what do you think are the problems with this method. Is it a problem that the line could stretch, that it's hard to accurately measure time or what about currents, may be there's some lateral currents in the water behind the boat. Check all that you think apply. Well, the line could certainly stretch--that would throw off your measurement. It actually was hard to accurately measure time. They often use things like hourglasses and some mechanisms but it is still difficult to be accurate and currents is the big one. If all this water is also moving to the right with some speed, well I would expect this log to more or less follow behind your boat-- that doesn't mean your boat isn't moving--it just means that it is not moving relative to the water. Clearly we knew the better method, what can we use. It turns out what you need is a good timekeeping device or a chronometer and if it's not clear why, why don't we go to Leiden in the Netherlands and talk to Tjeerd Bucker. You need a timekeeping device to find longitude because they the world turns on it's axis in 24 hours, and we've probably seen the sun at its highest point at 12 o'clock. When you're, for instance at the ocean, and you look at the sun and you see it reached its highest point, you can say it's 12 o'clock and you look at the clock which you take with you it shows the time of your home harbor. For each hour in difference there is a 15° difference in longitude. So the question is how do we find the time. Actually, sorry that's not the question. Finding the time is easy--we'll just look at the sun. The real question is how I can keep the time from my local harbor when I go to sail at sea. What I need is periodicity. I need something that happens at regular intervals. For example, we're all familiar with the ticking of a clock and that seems like an obvious solution but clocks are difficult to make--what else could we use that has a regular periodic nature to it. One attempted solution to this problem of finding something periodic that we could use as a timekeeper came from our good friend Galileo-- standing as he always does next to the Leaning Tower of Pisa. Now Galileo had invented some incredible telescopes and with these telescopes, he was able to observe the ring around the planet Saturn, mountains on the moon, dark spots on the sun and the planet Jupiter and its four moons, each of which orbited around in a predictable fashion. Now of the four discoveries Galileo made with his telescope, which do you think could somehow be used for keeping time at sea. And this is a tricky one, but the keywords are used when describing the moon's Jupiter where predictable and regular. Predictable means Galileo could make a chart or some catalogue of the times when each of these moons were supposed to let's say go behind the planet Jupiter. If we're looking at the zoomed in version of Jupiter, we could tell when this transit occurred because the moon will go from being visible to no longer visible when it passed behind the planet, and it didn't matter if you're observing over here in Italy or may be over here somewhere in Africa let's say--this would happen at the exact same time. It doesn't matter if you're Galileo here in Italy or some sailor out in the ocean. You would've observed this transit to occur at the exact same time. So if you knew for instance that this occurred at 8 o'clock in Italian time, this sailor could immediately get a reference for what time it was back at home. By comparing that with their own clock, they could determine their longitude. Seems pretty brainy right? I want you to tell me--what do you think were some of the problems we're trying to use this telescope to look at Jupiter to ascertain your time? Which of the following do you think our problems you might run into when trying to use Galileo's method of observing the transits of Jupiter's moons to keep time? Do you think it's a problem when you can only see Jupiter at nighttime or that telescopes are hard to use on a ship that's bouncing at sea or may be clouds could get in the way and obscure your vision--check all that apply. Well, this was an easy one. No problems. I don't want to only be able to tell time at night under special instances when the moons are passing behind the planet. Furthermore, telescopes are going to be almost impossible to use on the ship as it bounces around on our waist. This is going to wind up being the biggest problem, that telescopes are so hard to use on a ship. So Galileo actually invented something that he thought would help adjust this problem. What he invented was this ridiculous contraption called the celatone which you can see here in the black and red and it's basically just a helmet where one eye had the telescope over it and the other eye was just an open hole, and the idea was you could sight and find the idea for where Jupiter was through this hole and then what he's doing then in focus and watch the transit of the moons through the telescope. As you can maybe imagine this didn't work so well. All right. Enough about these crazy contraptions. Let's go to clock. Actually, let's go to something even better than a clock--it's called a chronometer. And let's think, what are the necessary properties that our chronometer has to have if it's going to be used for timekeeping device at sea. Does our chronometer have to run forever without any external source of power. Does it have to be periodic--what periodic means, it has some cycle that repeats itself. If it must be periodic, does it have to isochronous as in does that cycle have to take the exact same amount of time every single iteration. Finally, does it have to be predictable and by predictable I mean even if we know it's isochronous, do we know exactly how long each cycle takes. Check whatever answers you think apply. Now, I'm guessing is there could be 3 options. And I'm going to walk through backwards to talk about why they are all so vital to our chronometer that we want to make. Even if I device the pit itself and does so in a consistent manner, if we don't know how long those repetitions take, well what good is it. If 10 ticks of our clock corresponds to 10 seconds or 15 or 20, but we just don't know, well it's not a very useful clock. Obviously, it has to be isochronous if one tick of the clock is one second and the next is seven seconds, well again I use this clock. And all of these required that something be happening over and over at regular intervals, which means periodic. Well, it would be nice if our clock could run forever without power. If you know how to make a clock that does this, you just invented a perpetual motion machine and send me the diagram please. Now, what's really cool is there is a whole field of physics dedicated to phenomena that meet this criteria, simple harmonic motion. Underlying this field of study, simple harmonic motion is the concept of equilibrium. So let's talk about that. What is equilibrium? Well, let's think about it as a state of balance. And that balance I mean well, balance forces. Before we get too deep into a definition, let's talk about some examples. For example, let's consider a ball in a well. If I release this ball from right here, well we all know what's going to happen. It's going to roll back and forth and eventually it's going to settle in one spot. A place where it settles somewhere near here is its equilibrium. If you disturb the ball from its equilibrium, say by shifting it a bit to the right, well now it's on a hill and we could do some force decomposition, and we would see that there's actually a force pointing down the hill. It's going to tend to restore this object back to its equilibrium. And this is such an important concept given its own sentence here. If I'm being specific, I should change the title to stable equilibrium. This idea that when disturbed the object would try to return to equilibrium that's the characteristic of what's known as stable. There is also semi-stable and unstable equilibrium, but we're not going to talk about those today because this is the sort of equilibrium that gives you the simple harmonic motion we need for our chronometer. There's lots of other systems that have this exact same property. For example, if you have a mass hanging from a spring Its default state just hanging in equilibrium, but if I pull the mass down, the spring will exert a force back upwards which tends to restore it to equilibrium. Likewise with a pendulum or a mass swinging from a rod, its default state, its equilibrium is vertical. If we displace it from vertical, there will be some component of force in this case gravity, which tends to restore it. There is one more key point for simple harmonic motion. The criteria that must be fulfilled if we're going to get isochronous periodicity that we want, and this one I want you to complete for me. So, you could look at this for example as I move this ball further and further up the hill further from equilibrium, does the force tending to push it back increase, decrease, or stay the same? Enter your answer here. The restoring force must grow. In fact the restoring force has to be proportional to this displacement from equilibrium. Only then will we have our ball making a back and forth motions, our spring making up and down motions, and our pendulums swinging with equal time intervals between well swings or bounces up and down or back and forth rolling. Let's take a deeper look at one of these examples--specifically, the mass on the spring. When we think of a mass on a spring, there's only two numbers initially that we really care about. One is the mass of the block and the other is K, which is a constant associated with the spring that measures its stiffness. For example, a rubber band sort of spring. And it would have a very low K since it's not very stiff. The springs in your car on the other hand would have a very high K because they're very stiff and hard to compress. Now right now this mass spring totally in equilibrium. This is exactly where the mass wants to be. Let's imagine displacing this mass from equilibrium. So let's move the center of mass over to here. So we've displaced our spring from equilibrium by a distance that I'm going to call Xmax, and you'll see why I called it that in a second. Now if I pull this mass back to Xmax and release what's going to happen is it's going to undergo a series of oscillations. In fact, if we assume that this surface is frictionless it's going to oscillate forever. Of course that would never happen in real life but let's talk ideal-wise here. In fact, this mass will swing through the equilibrium position here and all the way back to distance of -Xmax from the equilibrium. So now you can see the reason why called this max is because as these oscillations continue this is the farthest from equilibrium that the mass will ever reach. Now what I want to do is analyze this spring in terms of energy, which we talked about a ton in the last unit. Well it turns out that the potential energy stored in the spring is equal to half the spring constant K times x². X in this case would be whatever the current displacement from the equilibrium is. So when the mass is at the equilibrium, x will be 0. When the mass was over here, it will be Xmax. Maybe here it would be 1/2 of Xmax and so on. And so if we looked at let's say three possible positions for where the mass could be in its back and forth oscillations. So the position 1, equilibrium. Position 2 and this is sort of midpoint. And position 3, Xmax. So you need to tell me for each of these three positions as the spring is oscillating back and forth what kind of energy does it have at each of these positions? Check all boxes that you think apply. And remember we're talking about kinetic energy, the energy of motion and potential energy, which in this case is spring potential energy and not gravitational potential. Well let's start by thinking about position 3. When the mass is way back here as far away from equilibrium as it's going to go it has only potential energy. All the energy is stored in the spring for an instant the block stops moving before it changes direction making the kinetic energy 0. Let's turn to position 1 next where here the spring isn't stretched out. It's at equilibrium. X is 0, so there can be any potential energy. So what happened to all the potential energy that was storing the spring back here? Well, it must've been converted to kinetic energy. At position 2, midway between positions 1 and 3, I know the spring is stretched somewhat so it has potential energy but it's not as stretched as much as it was at position 3. So some of that potential energy must've also been converted to the energy of motion, kinetic energy. So these are the answers. Then we have a qualitative understanding of the energy involved with this spring moving back and forth. Let's do some actual calculations. So let's say we told you the mass, the spring constant, and Xmax the amplitude of oscillation. Could you tell me the maximum velocity this object will reached and remember think in terms of energy. We know the potential energy it has when it's back here. We know something about the kinetic energy, at least the equation which describes kinetic energy over here. Enter your answer here in m/s. Well, let's see. How do we solve this. Well, I know that the potential energy over here is going to be equal to the kinetic energy it has when it passes through the equilibrium. Remember at the the equilibrium point, there's no potential energy. All of that energy must have been converted into kinetic energy. Okay, so let's do the math. Potential energy gets converted to kinetic energy. Use the appropriate equations and when I solve for V--that should be a max and I'm solving for the Vmax as well. I get this for an answer and plugging in the appropriate values--I get an answer of 4.5 m/s. Now something that's interesting here is that this could've been positive number or a negative number--a positive number would have corresponded to when the mass is moving this way and negative would have corresponded to when the mass is moving that way. In fact, there's a lot we can learn about simple harmonic motion by just calculating velocity, keeping track of sign and plotting it on a diagram versus position. What do I mean by that? Well, I'll show you. Okay. So this next part what we're going to talk about I have to admit is a little bit tricky. It will require some serious focus, and it's something I was never shown in school but after having seen this what I'm about to show you I had to say my mind was fairly blown. So just for some anticipation, I want to show you what we have. We have a one-dimensional motion. We have a mass moving back and forth in a straight line on a spring. I don't see any right triangles here, do you? I don't think so. Yet, what we're going to get pretty soon is an entirely new way of looking at trigonometry— the science of right triangles. This graph is a graph of position versus velocity so on the x axis here we have position and I've divided by Xmax, the maximum possible position. So if I were to put a dot here that would mean that at some point in time the mass was all the way at the maximum possible position. That's why this number is 1 and notice that I put it here. I didn't put the dot here or here. And that's because on the vertical axis, I have velocity. Here velocity can be as much as positive Vmax, which we calculated earlier. Or negative Vmax. Positive this way. Negative that way. But we know that for the instant when the block is over here its velocity is equal to 0. It stops for that instant before it gets pulled back to its equilibrium. Okay. So this is a point on our graph of position versus velocity. Let's see if we can fill out some more points. I promise you we are going to see something very interesting. I've given you four possible suggestions for points that should exist on this graph. Can you select the appropriate one? And you put the point to say that is this last one, all the way at the end. This corresponds to the mass having fully compressed the spring and again it's stopping with 0 velocity for just that instant. These other three points don't really make sense because they correspond to since they're on this horizontal line here--this is the line of 0 velocity. Anytime the mass is in between these extreme points of Xmax and -Xmax, well it's going to be moving--so this doesn't make sense. I will also tell you that when the object is swinging through so let's say it's coming from this end and swinging through equilibrium. When it goes through the equilibrium point, its velocity is maximized. It's going very fast, as fast as it'll ever will go but will in this case it's going to the left. Leftwards means negative, so that will correspond to this point. We've already talked about what happens--it's going to compress the spring, stop for a second, and then swing back through. When it get through equilibrium on the swing through, well then it's going to the right with maximum speed again corresponds to this point. Okay, so we got four points on a graph, let's fill in a few more and see if a shape starts to emerge. I want to know when X=1/2 Xmax, so that would correspond to this position right here or this position here on the graph and the mass is moving to the right, what is V/Vmax. Now you maybe thinking but Andy, you haven't given me k, you haven't given me Xmax. How can I calculate anything? Well, you have two options-- You could make up those values and I promise you when you calculate this out it won't matter what values you chose or you can just manipulate these algebraic symbols until you solve for V/Vmax. That could be a little trickier--you've either option to shot. I know they are both tough. If you need help, don't be discouraged. These are tricky topics we're dealing with. Feel free to go to the forums. Well, normally I would solve this algebraically and I think that's the best way to do it and I encourage you to do it in the forums. But since we already calculated Vmax numerically using the numbers I had made up last time, k = 500, m = 1, and Xmax = 0.2. Let's go ahead and get ourselves an answer. So how do we do this? Well, I know that the system has a total amount of energy. When it is at the extreme points, the energy is all potential. In the equilibrium, it's all kinetic and this middle point here is both kinetic and potential. I can phrase this mathematically as the total energy is going to be the kinetic plus the potential. Well the total energy is just whatever energy I had when I pulled it all the way back to Xmax. The kinetic energy? Well, I'm not sure what that is. But I know that this is the equation that describes it. And actually, I know all of these numbers except for v. To solve these for v is just a matter of doing a little bit of massaging, which I will leave to you. When I carry out all these algebra and arithmetic, I find that when I'm at this point when the mass is moving through this position here, the velocity is 0.87. It's maximum velocity. 87% and it's moving pretty fast. My plot will go up to here, up here, and probably somewhere around here. Now, I could do very similar algebra to find that there's also a negative solution and this solution corresponds to the exact same thing but when the mass is moving this way. I could also find that there are solutions over here and if I solve for the position when the velocity was 1/2 of its maximum I would get 0.87 Xmax. I could put points here and here. Can you see what shape is starting to emerge on the points we're plotting? It's a circle or at least it's supposed to be. Sorry some of my points are a little bit off. This is something in Physics that we call a phase diagram. And it's a very powerful tool once you understand how to use it. The way to interpret this diagram is as follows. We start with a mass put all the way back to Xmax. We let it go. Well in this case, it starts with negative velocity. It moves that way. That would correspond to going into the negative realms of velocity down here. Eventually, it maxes out in speed as it passes through equilibrium but keeps moving to the left as it can be seen by the negative velocity. Eventually, it reaches this extreme over here and finally it turns around. Positive velocity moving to the right passes through the equilibrium at maximum speed and keeps moving through the right and returns to where it started. The Wikipedia page in simple harmonic motion has a really great illustration. Now, a couple of things that I notice that are different about this illustration is position is vertical, velocity is horizontal, the spring itself is moving up and down but you get the same idea. Here, the vertical position is tracking the object's position and as the object moves downwards we see that the ball is on the left side of this line corresponding to a negative velocity as it moves upwards. This ball on the right side is corresponding to a positive velocity. Okay, so why did I spend all this time to show you this? Now you're maybe asking yourself, so what? Who cares about this phase diagram? You're in for a treat. Notice that when I pick out a point on this circle. And remember this circle tells us all the locations in what we can call phase space which is a combination of position in velocity. All the locations in phase space where we might find this object. Let's look at this point for example. Well, this point corresponds to a position down here and to a velocity over here. Well, I'm seeing something very fascinating right now. Let's just draw a line from the center over to here. Let's draw a line from the center out to the point we're talking about. Oh, I think you're seeing it too now. Well, check it out. This point has an angle associated with it. I'm going to call that angle θ. It has an opposite side and the length of this opposite side well that corresponds to this length over here same as the velocity, V/Vmax. And this triangle has an adjacent side and this adjacent side corresponds to the position of the particle or the block at this instant in time. Another great thing is that since we've chosen to write the speeds and positions this ratios of X/Xmax and V/Vmax this circle has radius 1. The hypotenuse is just 1. That's such an easy number to deal with. Now, can you figure out a very important equation namely what trigonometric function goes here and which goes here? I'll give you a hint. It's either sine, cosine, or tangent. And it's either sine, cosine, or tangent. So is X/Xmax the sin θ? The tan θ? Cos? Fill in your answers here and here. Well what is the cos θ for example? Well, it's adjacent over hypotenuse. But the hypotenuse is just 1. So X/Xmax is just equal to the cos θ. Similar thinking tells us that V/Vmax is equal to the sin θ. Now these two equations can be slightly rearranged to be written like this. Okay, so we've learned that we can express position in velocity in terms of the maximum position in velocity and some trigonometric function of this weird angle θ. Theta only shows up on this strange diagram I've drawn. It seems like it might somehow correspond to time since you know that as time progressed I moved along this diagram. But before we can move any further, let's talk about radians. Let's get this tool under our tool belt. Let's figure out what radians are. Well, I'll tell you what they are. They're unit of angle--just like the degree Whereas the trace of degree was somewhat arbitrary, who thought there should be 360° in a circle--where that number come from. The choice for the radian is a little less arbitrary, and so let's talk about that. Here we have a circle of radius 1. Can you tell me what's the circumference of this circle. You can put your answer here and round to two decimal place. What we know from unit 1 that the circumference of a circle is 2<i>π<i>r.</i></i> If the radius is 1, well that's just 2<i>π--so that's 6.28, but let's not think of that.</i> Let's think of this as 2<i>π.</i> Now, if the units of this circumference of the radius were meters for example. And now I was a little man walking along this circle--that means I would have to walk 2π m to get back to where I start. In fact, this is how we define the radian. This angle which previously we may have called 360°--we now call 2π radians. If this is all you remember about radians, you can do everything else. I'm not saying this is all you should remember but this is enough. So if 2π radians is one full circle 360°, what do you think will be 1π radian or just π radians. Can you tell me where in the circle you would wind up if you walk 1π radians? Select the appropriate check box. Well, let's see.2π radians get 0 here and the full circle, 1π radian just get 0 and half the circle. If we want to go a quarter of a circle, well that would be π/2 radians. If we want to go one-eighth of a circle, that'll be π/4. How about 5π/2 radians. Now, this is a slightly trickier one. Where in the circle would you wind up if you move through an angle of 5π/2 radians--choose the best answer. Well, let's see 5π/2--5/2 is 2.5π. Okay. Well, I know 2π is a full circle. So that's the sign we go back to where I am, but I still have half of π radian left to go--0.5π. Well, I know 1π/2 does--0.5π--this brings me right here. So actually 5π/2 is exactly the same as π/2. Now, let's go back to our mass bouncing up and down in the spring. You noticed I've changed it from being a horizontally sliding mass to a vertical one. The thing I like about this picture is that the mass goes this way counterclockwise though this phase space. That's the same direction that we measure angles from, so we want to stick with that convention for now. Other than that, all the physics are the same, so let's say our particle is here, our mass is here-- that's almost all the way at x max and it's moving upwards so that it'd be may be somewhere here and going up--this should be negative x max--that's positive. Okay. So let's say this is an angle π/4 radians or we can draw a right triangle. And in this case, since we've flipped the direction--we're not going vertically, and now the cosine goes with the velocity component and the sine goes to that position but you could've figured that out from the trigonometry. Now it's convenient because if we want to calculate let's say the cosine of π/4 radians-- remember when we're using Google before, we were typing something like the cosine of 45° and we're actually had to spell out degrees--yeah, that wasn't very fun. Now if you type this into Google, it'll just give you your answer--you don't have to specify radians. It assumes radians because radians really are more fundamental than degrees. So if you type this in, you'll find that the velocity at this point is 0.71 Vmax and the position is 0.71<i>Xmax.</i> I've just plugged in the cosine of π/4 and sine of π/4, and for this angle, cosine and sine happen to be completely equal. All right. Are you with me? It's time to push forward into uncharted territory. We're going to go out of the first quadrant. When we look at our axis like this. Remember we called this the first quadrant, this the second, the third and the fourth. So far everything has been between 0 and 90° and we found that all of our trig functions have been positive. I could take the sine of an angle, the cosine of an angle, the tangent of an angle. It didn't matter--all of these trig functions are positive. Let's see what happens if we go into new quadrants. For example, let's look at this angle in the second quadrant. So now we're looking at this entire angle. Now I want to know--what is the sine of that angle or the cosine of that angle, but first let me tell you what the angle is. This angle has 3π/4 radians--now, what I do in these situations is I still make my right triangle relative to this x axis baseline--we can think of it as. Now you go to Google and type these in. I know this is sort of a menial task, but there's a good reason to type these in, get an answer and tell me what you get. When you do this, when you type in 3π/4 but for the sine you get a positive answer--0.71. For the cosine, you should got a negative answer of -.071, and let's think why is that--well, let's see. Trigonometric ratios have to do with the sides of triangles. In this case, the sine was comparing opposite to hypotenuse. Notice that the opposite side well it's pointing above the x axis--it's a positive number and the hypotenuse, well we always call that a positive number. So opposite over hypotenuse, positive over positive gave me a positive number. Cosine, well let's see. The adjacent it goes to the left of the y axis--that's a negative value. Adjacent of hypotenuse negative over positive gives me this -0.71. We see in the first quadrant all trigonometric functions are positive and that's because well the opposite side, the adjacent side and the hypotenuse of any triangle you're trying to draw will also be positive. We saw that quadrant II only designs positive, let's think quadrant III. Let's imagine this giant angle. Well, to talk about this angle, we're going to think about the smaller version of the angle and we're going to make a right triangle. Now, if this right triangle the opposite side goes below this zero line, so it's negative, and the adjacent side goes to the left of this zero line so it's also negative. I want to know in the third quadrant, which trig function is positive. Is it the sine, the cosine, the tangent, all of them or none of them? Choose your best answer, and this is tricky, but remember think of what happens when you perform the divisions required of each of these trigonometric ratios. Also to remind that the hypotenuse is always positive. Let's see sine and cosine, we're comparing either opposite or adjacent, which are both negative to the hypotenuse, which is positive. Negative divided by positive well that's negative. Those can't be the answer. Tangent compares opposite to adjacent, negative over negative. That does give us a positive. All functions are positive in the first quadrant. Only sine in the second, only tangent in the third, and only cosine in the fourth, which you can show using similar thinking that we just used. Now, I hope you believe that trigonometric functions can actually be negative. This is very important because we're going to use all of these everything we've learned, radiance, this idea of this circle and the trigonometric relationship to the circle, and the concept of a negative trigonometric ratio. All of these is going to come together when we fully described simple harmonic motion. I think we have enough knowledge to begin tackling the mystery of the angle and what do I mean by this. We've shown that if we know, for example, what angle describes our position and what I've called face space, which is somehow a relationship between velocity and position, we can determine exactly what we are in the cycle with this mass moving up and down, but how we do get this angle? This angle seems so important. I don't know how to find it. It seems to be related to position somehow, to velocity somehow, and also somehow to time, because if I knew, for example, that I started here and released the mass from Xmax as time went on, it would just trace out the circle. And we've discussed a little bit what tracing the circle means. So, I guess my question is, which variable can we use to determine this angle θ? Is it velocity? position? or is it time? This is a very tricky one but think it through and see if you can get the answer. Let's see, if someone tell me the position, could I figure out where the object was. Let's say they told me they were here. Well, to find out this position, I know they're either on this part of the diagram or over here in this part of the diagram. But that doesn't tell me what the angle is--it might be this angle or it might be that angle. I can do the same sort of thinking with velocity--it's not enough information to determine the angle. The only thing that would tell me the angle, assuming I know the starting position, is the time, and don't worry if you didn't get this one--this is a very, very tricky one. Now, how does the time relate to angle. The connection between angle and time is what's known as angular velocity, which we give this symbol ω--it looks sort of like a funny w. In this quantity describes how quickly in radians we progress around this circle and so it's units are in radians/second and the equation that describes this is that the angle is equal to the ω<i>t--the angular velocity times the elapsed time.</i> I should put a Δ here. This is how much you've changed your angle. So let's say we started an angle of 0 degrees, 0 radians were down here, and I have an angular velocity--let's keep it simple of 1 radian/sec. So what I want to know is how long will it take to complete one cycle and you'll have to remember what one cycle means in radians when four cycle given an angular velocity of 1 radian/second--enter your answer here. Well, four cycles is 2π radians and it has to equal well our angular velocity which is 1 times our time. So the answer is 2π, 6.28 seconds. We call this number the time it takes to complete one full cycle--the period. So if this mass had a period of 6.28 seconds, that would mean if I lifted it up all the way to Xmax and release it, it would take 6.28 seconds for it go all the way down and then all the way back up--one full cycle. We know about the angular velocity which we call ω--that's in radians/second and you know about the period, which we used a big T to describe-- to remind us that it's units of time or seconds. It turns out there's actually a really wonderful relationship between these two and that the period is always just 2π/ω. For this quiz, I want to start up here--so that means we've lifted our mass up our mass up and we're about to release it. And let's say it'll tell you that this particular combination of spring and mass has a period equal to 2 seconds. I want to know after 7.5 seconds, where will the mass be. Select the best answer. Well, there is a couple of ways to answer this question, at least a couple, and I'm going to show you too. The period is 2 seconds and we're talking about 7.5 seconds. If a mass starts off up here, what are 2 seconds is complete one period; two more, it's gone up here; two more, another period. Okay, so far we've had 6 seconds elapsed. What are 7 seconds that's half a period, and then another half a second, well that's another half of what's left. We'd wind up here. How else could we have solve this? Remember that the amount of angle we go through in a certain amount of time is equal to ω t. Okay, I know that t is 7.5 seconds. How can I find ω? Well, we have this relationship, T = 2π/ω, or rearrange, ω = 2π/T. In this case, with a T of 2, ω is equal to just π radians/sec. That means in each second, it's going to go π radians. Well, 7π radians would be seven-halves of the circle. Starting from here, that would be this angle, one-half, two, three, four, five, six, and seven, but it was 7.5 seconds, so the extra π over 2 radians, and again that puts us right here. All right. So we've got our spring with our mass and it's bouncing up and down. And the spring starts from up here—the mass starts from up here. This would correspond to the mass fully compressed with no velocity because it's right at the top of its trajectory. Well after 7.5 seconds, we've made some common sense arguments to show that it has completed a few full cycles and then wound up here. Going through the equilibrium position, going upwards with maximum speed. But sometimes common sense isn't enough. So my question is, what is the mass' position after 7.2 seconds? The only information I am giving you is that the period is 2 seconds. The mass starts from here at the top of its trajectory when we're just about to release it and then it bounces up and down. So what's the mass' position after 7.2 seconds? And I want you to write this in terms of Xmax. So enter you answer here. Be really careful with this π/2. Be careful with which trig function you use. Good luck. Well let's see. Position is vertical. Here. Vertical. That's opposite the angle. Opposite the hypotenuse. Okay. We're using the sine. Sine is opposite. So we know that x is equal to Xmax times the sine of whatever this angle is. But remember, we don't know what this angle is until we do some math. The angle is omega t plus this phase. I didn't show you this letter before but we call this phi. Phi is how far along in this cycle we started off, and we started off π/2 1/4 of a cycle ahead. So I evaluate this for omega. I plug in π. For t, I plug in 7.2. And I get -0.81<i>Xmax.</i> If you got this, I'm very, very impressed. This was not easy. And if you didn't, don't worry. Go back and do it again. The beauty of online education. Okay. So we've already talked about one way to visualize a mass bobbing on a spring. Let me draw that picture up here. Okay. So we're thinking about this mass going up from Xmax to -Xmax. And we've talked about this interpretation over here. But this was a graph of position versus velocity. What if I want to know position versus time? Well, time = 0. Our mass started up here at Xmax. Remember the period was 2 seconds. After 2 seconds, well, one cycle one period means that the mass has returned to its original starting point. What happened after 1 second halfway between these two? Well after 1 second, our object was way down here all the way to -Xmax. After 0.5 seconds, the object passes through equilibrium so we're going to draw out the position on this 0 line and same with after 1.5 seconds. It turns out that if you fill in more and more parts of this graph, more and more dots, you'll see a shape start to emerge. And you can fill in those dots using the math we learned just in the previous video. This is a graph of position versus time, which we call x(t) and this is a wonderful equation. It's just that we have some maximum, let's call this amplitude, that's modified by this function sin(ωt+π/2). And this is just some function that whenever I plug in the t, it gives me a number between -1 and 1 and it repeats forever. Now, I'm going to draw some potential graphs for the velocity as a function of time. And I want you to tell me which one is the best. So I've drawn you some graphs. No, it's not just a bunch of pretty pictures. Though I agree they are very beautiful. This may look confusing but the way to read this graph is to look one color at a time. We know that the blue graph depicts a position versus time. And what we want now is velocity versus time and there's four candidates. Well there's the blue graph. Maybe you think it has the exact same graph as positioned. There's the green and the pink and the red. Now, I want you to look through these and think which makes sense. And the best thing to do will be to look at this diagram and think. Okay. If our motion is starting up here and progressing around this phase diagram, which of these graphs best makes sense for the velocity as function of time? And think, does the particle start with velocity? Or does it start with positive, negative, zero velocity? When is the velocity negative? When is it positive? Everything you can learn from this, you should be able to see reflected in this graph somehow. Go ahead and take a stab at it. This is a tricky question. And so I sort of did process of elimination on this one. Let's see. If it starts up here, that means the velocity is 0, right? Well it can't be the blue graph because the blue graph starts with some positive velocity likewise the green starts with some negative. That just doesn't make sense. We know it starts at rest as both the pink and the red do. Look at the difference here. The red immediately goes towards negative velocity. The pink goes towards positive. What actually happens? Well it goes downwards. Of course it goes downwards. We're dropping it. So it's actually the red graph is the best answer. There's a lot more to say about these graphs. Ways to manipulate them and change the amplitude period shift them and a lot of interesting stuff to learn. We're not going to cover it in this class. Maybe in a later one. But you should definitely read up on it on your own if it's something you're interested in. But these graphs sort of highlight the periodic nature of simple harmonic motion. They just repeat themselves over and over and over, and that's exactly the property we want from a chronometer. We want it to be able to repeat itself. We want to know that every period is the same length of time. One tick of the clock. Now, the real question is, how do we control what this period is? Okay. So here's our mass hanging from the ceiling on a spring with the spring constant K. If I started shaking up and down and oscillating, we know it will move with a certain period. How do we adjust that period? Well let me first tell you the force law of a spring. And to do this, it actually may be better to think of the spring being horizontal. Here's our spring at its normal happy equilibrium position. We're going to call the equilibrium position x = 0. Now let's see, when we stretched the spring a bit and when we moved the mass back to let's say here to some position x. Well the spring exerts a force backwards back towards the equilibrium. The force of a spring is somehow negative. If I pulled to the right, it pulls to the left. And in fact, if I pull further to the right it pulls harder to the left. If you ever pulled on a spring you can tell pulling it a little bit is easy. Pulling it more is more difficult so actually the force is proportional to how much you stretch it. And what's the constant of proportionality? Well, that's why we have this letter K. This is the force on a spring and we know from our good buddy Newton that forces cause accelerations. In this case, the spring will accelerate this way due to the spring force. Why don't we replace this F with this -Kx? Well in the case we get ma = -Kx and so a = -K/m<i>x.</i> Now I hoped you followed along so far. The acceleration is equal to -K/m<i>x.</i> The reason why I said I hoped you followed along is because unfortunately now I have to do something that I hate to do. I have to just tell you something and that something is that whenever you can write a force law like this that the acceleration is equal to minus something times x times its displacement from its equilibrium, well it turns out that this something is always equal to ω². And remember omega is our radians per second, our angular frequency. Now let's say you have a spring with a spring constant of 50 N/m. And let's say you want your period to be equal to 1 sec, and remember T = 2π/ω. And why do we want 1 second? Well we're trying to design a clock here. Of course we want a 1-second period. We want it tick tock, tick tock. The question is with this spring and this desired period, what mass do we need? Enter your answer here in kg. Let's see. I said whatever this something is could be replaced with ω². Check it out. The something in this case--the something that multiples our x is k/m. If I know k and I know ω, I can get m, but I don't know ω. I know period. Why don't I get ω from that period. Well, in this case the period is 1 second so ω is just 2π. Okay, well, now I know that ω², 2π² is equal to k/m--50/m. Well, all I have to do now is solve this equation for m. When I do, I find that I need a mass of 1.27 kg. Okay, this was a little tricky. The take away I want you to remember is that any time you can write your force like this, acceleration equals negative something times x, you're going to get simple harmonic motion. That's really incredible. Not only that--whatever this something is will be the square of your angular frequency. Now, that's really cool, but unfortunately all this stuff we've learned about springs-- well, springs weren't how they made the first clocks or first chronometers. There was one day when our good friend Galileo while sitting in a church saw something that blew his mind and would forever change navigation. Le'ts talk to Tjeerd Bucker again to see what Galileo found. [Tjeerd Bucker, Museum Booerhaave] Well, it's a rumor or an anecdote--however you want to call it. Galileo was sitting in this church, and see the chandelier swinging from left to right, and he checked with his pulse to see if it kept an accurate rate. Due to counting, he found out that there was an equal line in oscillation, an isochronism, in the pendulum in the swinging of the chandelier. That's how the pendulum started life, really. So, here's Galileo sitting in his church staring at this pendulum-- I mean, chandelier--as it rocks band and forth. This is a chandelier. These are candles. If you ever want to teach intro to drawing, I would be happy--in fact, thrilled--to take that class. Here he is measuring his pulse with his fingers up against his neck, and he finds that--what do you know?--the chandelier is swinging periodically. It takes the same amount of time every single time it swings back and forth. This gave Galileo an idea. Galileo realized the potential here. This could possibly used as a time-keeping device and solve once and for all the problem of longitude. But it wasn't Galileo's bright idea that caused the birth of the pendulum. It was the equally bright, but apparently more energy efficient, idea of Christian Huygens that actually lead to the birth of the pendulum. Why don't we talk to Ad Maas, the curator of the Museum Booerhaave in Leiden, to get a bit more perspective on this. [Ad Maas, Museum Booerhaave] Christian Huygens was mainly known for his role in what is called the Scientific Revolution. For example, his cutting edge work on the pendulum motion was combined with thinking about making precise, steady clockworks. Making steady clocks had to do with being able to navigate at sea. The only way to be able to determine your longitude is if you would be able to compare your time on your ship with the time of your starting point. In order to keep the time of your starting point, you need a very steady clockwork. Well, that was a big challenge for inventors throughout the 17th and almost all of the 18th century. Okay, so Huygens wanted to look at a pendulum to measure time. Let's analyze what's going on exactly with a pendulum Well, a pendulum is just a mass on a rod. When we pull it back, like we have here, away from the equilibrium position, which I've drawn in dotted lines, it's going to swing back and forth. If there's no friction or air resistance, it'll just do that forever. We expect this pendulum to give us simple harmonic motion, which means we expect that when we work out the forces in the acceleration we want to get acceleration that looks like minus something times x. Let's look at the forces and see if we can get that, because we want to understand what's going on here. Let's imagine pulling our pendulum by some angle θ. Well, of course, our pendulum has some mass. I said simple pendulum so that what means--I should explain-- is that all of the mass is in the bob at the end, which is just some really tiny little point mass at the end, and there's no mass in the rod, and everything is going to swing without friction. The pendulum has mass or weight pulling down, and there's only one other force. That's the force of tension supplied by the string or rod. I know that when I release this pendulum, if I've pulled it back here and I release it, it's going to swing this way--down back towards the equilibrium. Actually, what we want to do is break this mg into a component this way that will balance the tension and a component in this direction and a component in this direction. This picture is starting to get a little cluttered, so let me pull it off to the side and make it a little bigger. I can see that this angle is the same as this angle over here. If that's the case, well, I can do my trig. This is a right triangle with a hypotenuse, and there is this side, which is mgcosθ. This side is pretty uninteresting, because I know it's going to exactly balance tension. How do I know that? Well, because the mass never accelerates towards the pivot point or away. It only accelerates perpendicular directly back towards the equilibrium point. That force that's doing this acceleration is mg times sin θ. Okay, this is the force. Actually, I should say that it's negative, because if I pull it back to the left I would normally call that a negative angle. The force is to the right, so this negative sign is actually important. So, we have this force doing our acceleration minus mgsinθ. Let's use our good old friend F = ma. In this case -mgsinθ = ma. When we check it out, the m's cancel, and we're left with this. The acceleration is equal to -g times sinθ. We're in a big of a pickle here because--uh, oh--this does not look like a = 1 something x. Have no fear. We're going to do some sly massaging of this equation to figure out what's going on. The first thing I want to do is show you something very fascinating about sin θ when θ is very small. If θ is 0.01 what is the sine of that angle? Remember, we're measuring in radians, not degrees. If I type this into Google, the sine of 0.01, I get 0.0099983333, but if I round that up to any reasonable number it's 0.01. Can you do the same thing for 0.02 and 0.04? Just enter your answers in this box. Look at this. This is amazing. Type it into Google for yourself. You can see for any reasonable amount of rounding for small angles, sin θ is equal to θ, and it's so close. It's such a good approximation that we can actually do physics with it. Instead of writing a = -gsinθ, we can now write a a -gθ. Okay, we're making some progress. We're not quite there yet. This doesn't look like an x or anything. This is an angle, not a distance. What can we do? Well, look what we have here. If this is our pendulum and this is our pivot point, when I pull back the pendulum it's going to trace out this circle. Now, of course, I'm constraining myself to small angles, so let's get rid of most of that circle. But when I pull back my pendulum by angle of θ, let's say this pendulum has some length L that's the distance from here to here. We can do the same sort of ratio that we did way back in Unit 1 when we were measure the circumference of the earth. This angle θ, when compared to the entire angle of the circle, 2π radians, is in the same ratio as this arc length, which I'm going to call x, to the entire circumference of the circle, which is 2π times the radius or L. If this isn't clear, let me just explain this one more time. What I'm saying is the ratio of this angle to the entire 360° or 2π radians of a circle. That's identical to the ratio of this distance to the total circumference. This angle to the total angle is the same as this distance to the total distance. What I'm trying to do is replace this θ, so I'm going to solve for θ. When I do, I get θ = x/L. Now we're making progress. Let's see what happens. Now I have that a is equal to -g(x/L), having made that replacement. Or put another way, a - -g/L(x)--minus something times x. We have simple harmonic motion in our pendulum. Wonderful. Now, I'm going to ask you a very hard question, because it's going to have you put together a lot of the things we've been talking about. We're trying to design a clock. We want a period of 1 second. I want to know how long should our pendulum be if we want a period of 1 second? Don't forget that this something here becomes ω². Enter your answer here in meters. Okay, let's see. We want a period of 1 second. Let's convert this to an angular frequency ω using this equation. So, we want an angular frequency of 2π, an I know that ω² is equal to whatever this thing is, the minus something times x. In this case, ω² is equal to g/L. Let's solve this for L. This gives me a length of 0.25 meters. Now, it turns out that for pendulum clocks, actually, we might want a period of 2 seconds. The reason is because let's say we had a pendulum with a period of 1 second. That means that it takes 1 second for when I pull it back to go over here and then all the way back. That's actually quite a bit of motion and a period of 2 seconds is actually a little bit better, because then every time the pendulum reaches one if its extrema, either all the way over here or all the way over there, we know 1 second has passed--half of the period. I wonder what would be the period for a 2-second pendulum. Why don't ask Tjeerd the clockmaker what he thinks. [Tjeerd ] When you design a pendulum or pendulum clock, the thing that mostly influences the period of oscillation is the length of the your pendulum. If you have an ideal pendulum, a fictional pendulum, made out of no materials as a mathematical piece, the pendulum of a second, oscillating in a second, will have a length of about a meter. A pendulum is made out of materials, and the rod, for instance, is made out of steel or brass, which brings the center of oscillation up. That's why you need a heavy pendulum bulb underneath the pendulum-- to bring the center of gravity in the pendulum down to have your proper theoretical length. Now that you know the basics of simple harmonic motion, how to construct springs and masses or a pendulum with a certain period, and how to describe that motion mathematically, you could more or less design a good clock all by yourself. Now, in a real pendulum clock we need to answer the question of how do we convert this periodic swinging into the ticking of a clock? What we do is we take this gear mechanism here, and we allow this to rotate somehow. Then we attach our pendulum to this thing, which is called an escapement. Now, this gear mechanism would love to just unwind. In fact, if the escapement wasn't here it would just unravel immediately. As you can see, if the pendulum swings to the left this moves out of the way, which allows it to move forward by 1 tick. As it swings to the right, this one moves out of the way--tick, tock. Basically, that's how a pendulum clock works. Now, there are some problems. We have to deal with friction. This isn't going to run forever on its own, but we'll do a problem set problem about that. Congratulations. You've answered a question that was vitally important for centuries. How can we locate our ships at sea? You've seen that even though finding latitude is relatively easy, finding your longitude can be incredibly difficult. With a reliable time-keeping mechanism, which we can create by taking advantage of simple harmonic motion, we can find our longitude by comparing the time on our ship to the time at some known location. In the next unit, we're going to visit the 18th century when buildings were frequently struck by lightening. In the next unit, we're going to answer the question how can we prevent buildings from being struck by lightening. See you then. We're here at St. Paul's Cathedral in London, England. St. Paul's is on the top of Ludgate Hill, which is the tallest hill in the city. Over the years, this cathedral has been struck by lightning on countless occasions. And in 1561, a lightning strike actually caused a large portion to burn down. In this unit, we'll learn not only why this cathedral is such a prime target for lightning strikes but also how to prevent lightning strikes from causing such disastrous fires. Being alive today, you probably know that lightening is a form of electricity. But this wasn't obvious in the 18th century. If you were this green-haired person here watching houses get struck by lightening, you'd probably think, "What is this thing?" Let's go back to the professor to get some more context on this situation. [Professor Lucio Fregonese, University of Pavia] Before the explosion of electrical studies in the 18th century, lightening was interpreted as an explosion of sulfur, sulfurous matter coming from the earth. But people started to realize some analogies between lightening and electricity. Benjamin Franklin was not the first to think about that analogy. It was already present in science. For example, a French scientist wrote down a list of analogies between lightening and artificial electricity, but it was Benjamin Franklin to stress the analogy. One of the most evident effects you'll see studying electricity are attraction and repulsion. So, there are interactions between electrified bodies. There is a quantity called electrical charge, which is one of the quantities involved in the phenomenon. The bigger the charge, the stronger the effect in the same conditions. The analogy with gravity is very clarifying. It looks like we have our work cut out for us, but with the help of Benjamin Franklin, it looks like we may be able to answer this question--what is lightening? And we might even be able to prevent it from hitting our churches, houses and other buildings. Now, if you've ever rubbed your feet on the carpet and then touched your finger to your friends, you might have noticed a little spark. That spark is electricity. It was Franklin's idea that this spark was the same as this giant spark in the sky and that both were a form of electricity. In the 18th century, it was all the rage to study electricity. Everyone was doing it, and the thing they were storing their electricity in was known as a Leyden jar. Now, we don't need to go into the details of how this jar worked just yet, but the key thing to know is that if there is a process which involved friction this jar could become charged. And for now, let's say that charged means the jar possesses electricity in some way. Well once it was charged, the electrodes of this jar could be connected to wires and by attaching these wires to various objects you could see things like sparks or you could even start a fire. Now remember, Benjamin Franklin's idea was that lightning is somehow the same thing as the electricity that scientists have been playing around with in these Leyden jars. So my question is, which of the following options would be the most convincing demonstration to show that lightning is actually the same thing as the electricity in these Leyden jars? Would we want to show that lightning, like a Leyden jar, can actually somehow cause a fire? Would we want to show that we can use lightning directly to charge a Leyden jar? Would we want to use lightning to destroy a Leyden jar? Or would we want to see if lightning somehow increases friction? The thinking being that Leyden jars were somehow charged by a process that involve friction. Which of these four options should Benjamin Franklin do if he wants to convincingly prove that lightning is electricity? Well, I don't think this first one is good. Lots of things cause fires that are not electricity. The second answer seems like the best to me. If we can take an uncharged Leyden jar and somehow use lightening to charge it and then have a Leyden jar that's charged just like any other, To test this hypothesis that lightning was actually electricity, Benjamin Franklin did something--well, something incredibly stupid. Now, it's not entirely certain if Franklin actually did this experiment but what's believed is that he took a kite out into a windy, raging thunderstorm and as the kite flew and the string got wet, well he tied a key to that string. His thinking being that, well if this lightning is somehow electricity there's got to be a ton of this electricity in the sky. And so he probably didn't actually allow the kite to get struck by lightning because that could've been fatal. Instead, he let the kite fly close to the clouds where he hoped it would collect electricity. That electricity he hoped will be transferred somehow along this wet kite string into the key, which could then be touched to this--what's called an electrode of the Leyden jar, thus charging the jar. When he did the experiment, it worked. What he set out to do actually happened. He showed that since lightning can be used to charge a Leyden jar, lightning must be electricity. For the rest of this unit, we're going to learn about electricity. Now I have to say this is usually a subject that's covered over an entire course. So what we're going to do here is learn the very basics enough to protect our buildings from being struck by lightning but this is really just a teaser. We're really just skimming the surface of what there is to learn about electricity. So in order to answer the question what is electricity, we're going to look at a lot of the contributions made by Benjamin Franklin. Franklin gave us the idea of charge both positive and negative. He gave us the notion of conservation of charge, which is very similar to conservation of energy, which we talked about in Unit 4. He described the properties of conductors and insulators. We're going to learn about all of these and more in this unit, but one thing I want to point out is that in some sense we might be historically inaccurate at some points. I'm going to use vocabulary that we would use today when talking about electricity. Some of the words Benjamin Franklin used might have been a bit different. So let's start with this idea of charge. Well, what is charge? Charge--and I'm going to use the convention way I label charge with the variable Q-- Well, it's a property of matter. Well, that's all fine. But what does it mean to be a property of matter? Well, we've gotten used to in our force diagrams that described the motion and forces on an object to writing the mass on that object. Because the mass was such an important property of the matter. Well, let's think about mass. Why was mass so important? We need to think about this and answer the following question. Why is mass so important? Is it because mass causes friction? Is it because mass tells us how much space an object occupies? Or is it because mass is somehow relevant to gravity? Think about this and choose what you think is the best answer. Well the reason why mass is so important is because it is relevant to gravity, and it's not just relevant in the sense that a mass feels the effects of gravity. Masses actually cause gravity. The reason why a person standing on the earth doesn't fall off--well there's 2 reasons. One is because the mass of the earth is producing gravity, and the second is that the mass of the person is feeling the gravitational force. Without both of these masses, there would be no force. Charge is very similar except that charge causes the electric force, and that force is felt by other charged objects. It's not like there are some real similarities between charge and mass. Specifically, similarities between the electric force and the gravitational. Let's do some comparison to see just how similar or how different these forces are. First, let's analyze the cause of each force. Well, the electric force is caused by charged objects whereas the gravitational force well it's caused by massive objects. Charge and mass are the causes of these forces. What about the effect? What kind of object feels the effect of the electric force? Well once again it's an object with a charge. Likewise, gravitational force is felt by objects with mass. Notice that we already see one similarity. The thing that causes the force is the same as the thing that feels it. What about the force law? And by force law I mean what's the equation that describes these forces? Well with gravity we knew the force of gravity was proportional to 1 over your distance away from the mass of object that's causing the force. In the case of the earth and the moon, r would be the separation between the two bodies. With the electrical force, it turns out the force law is almost identical. It's still proportional to 1 over r². So doubling the distance will decrease the force by a factor of 4. What about the direction of force? Well for gravity, objects always attract each other. In fact, it's this attraction that allows large bodies like the earth to form because every little tiny chunk of rock is attracted to every other little tiny chunk of rock and together they coalesce and form this wonderful beautiful sphere. What about with electricity? This is where things get interesting. With electricity, the direction is not always attractive. Sometimes it's repulsive. And this one key difference is responsively for many of the fascinating aspects of electricity which well we can learn about now. How is it that charge can be both attractive and repulsive? How does it know when to behave in which way? Well, charged objects can either be positive or negative. This is totally different from mass, which when we described an object's mass we said 5 kg. We didn't have to say +5 or -5. It doesn't make sense to talk about a negative mass. And the key thing to remember with charge is that opposite charges attract each other but like charges repel. Now this is really amazing. Now the key thing with charges is that opposite charges attract and like charges repel. Let's say you have these two charges and you are somehow able to hold them in your fingers. Right now, there exists some force between these two charges. If I let go and allow these charges to move, I want to know what will the charges look like after I allow them to move. Will they look exactly the same like nothing happened? Will they come together and be really close? Will they fly apart from each other? Choose the best answer. Well these charges are opposite. One is a positive and one is a negative. Opposite charges attract so they'll come together. This is actually deeply fascinating and has some serious implications for well everything from the structure of matter to--well-- lightning because a lone positive charge and a lone negative charge when left their own devices pair up. Let's take a look at the consequences of this pairing up. Here we have our two charges - a positive and a negative. And let's assume they're equal in size so the positive charge is as positive as the negative charge is negative. Now might be a good time to introduce the Coulomb, which is the unit of charge. We could say that this is a charge of +1 Coulomb and this is a charge of -1 Coulomb. Now let's make things interesting. Let's say that another charge, a third mystery charge arrives on the scene. I'm not going to tell you if this is a positive or a negative charge. I want to know what direction is the net force on this mystery charge. Is it up? Is it down? Maybe there's no force at all. Or maybe it depends on whether this mystery charge is positive or negative? Think about this one and give me your best guess. I warn you it is a bit tricky. Now, I suspect you may have chosen this one. It's so tempting. And actually technically it's a little bit correct. I encourage you to go to the forums to talk about why this is a little bit correct. But I think the best answer is that there's no force because— Let's say this was positive. Well then it's going to feel a repulsive force from this positive guy. And an equal attractive force from the negative since these are the same sized force. These are going to exactly balance out and so no force. If this guy was negative, same thing except now the repulsion comes from the negative force and the attraction comes from the positive. Now why did I bring this up? This is just some weird coincidence. Okay. In this situation, this guy didn't feel any force. No. It's not a weird coincidence. In fact, you almost never find isolated charges like this in nature. And why not? Because electricity is really, really, really strong. It's a super strong force compared to gravity. Man, gravity is so weak compared to electricity. What that means is if this guy were to exist, this lone negative charge, and somewhere off in the distance there was a lonely positive charge they would find each other and they would pair off. And it seems like in our universe there's more or less an equal amount of positive and negative charges. Let's take a look at the human body for example. When we look at the human body we see a series of sticks because that's all I can draw. But that's not really what we see. We see a human body. If we take a magnifying glass to a part of this and really zoom in on this region what do we see? We see cells. In fact, we see something like 10¹³ cells. That's a 1 followed by 13 zeros. That's a massive number. Well let's not stop there. Let's zoom in on a cell. That's a magnifying glass by the way. If we zoom in on the cell, we see that it's made up of molecules and those molecules are made up of atoms. And here I've drawn a single atom. This atom has three interesting parts. Here in the center we have the nucleus. The red and the blue dots. I'm using the red dot to represent the proton, and the proton has a charge of +1.6x10⁻¹⁹C. Also in the nucleus we have the neutrons which have a charge of 0 so we call them neutral. And orbiting around outside the nucleus we have electrons. And electrons have a charge of -1.6x10⁻¹⁹C. Same as the proton but negative. Each of these cells— Each of the 10¹³ cells in the human body has about 10¹⁵ protons, 10¹⁵ neutrons, and 10¹⁵ electrons. So my question is, using all of these data you have here of these numbers, I want you to tell me what is the net or total charge and remember Q is charge on the human body. Enter your answer here in Coulombs. Did I trick you? Because this is not as tricky as it may look initially. Okay, so this 10¹³ cell. Let's figure out what the net charge on this cell is. What each cell has 10¹⁵ protons? Okay, that will contribute some charge 10¹⁵ times the charge per proton as 10¹⁵ neutrons, they don't contribute at all in 10¹⁵ electrons which will contribute the exact same charge that the protons contributed but negative. The positive charges in the protons will cancel the negative charges in the electrons The net charge on the human body will be zero. This explains why you don't feel the electric force everyday. You're much more familiar with gravity because your body doesn't have a net charge. You could stay in pretty close to a charged object and you wouldn't feel much of anything. This may have just raised more questions than it answered because well, let's see, if everything is neutral, why do we even care about charge? How can we make something non-neutral? How can we give it a charge? If lightning has electricity, well it seems like there's a whole lot of it moving around. Where does that come from? Let's answer those questions. Let's take a look at the conservation of charge, very similar to conservation of energy. Conservation of charge means that the total charge in the universe never changes. Now, this doesn't mean it's impossible to, let's say, create a positive charge. It just means that when we do create a positive charge, we better create a negative charge to go along with it. In fact, we can refine this definition. Let's make it a little more specific. Let's say that the total charge in a closed system never changes Well, what does this mean? What's a closed system? Well, for the purpose of conservation of charge, a closed system means that there's no charge being added to or removed from the system. For example, let's imagine a metallic sphere. This would be, in this case, a closed system. Nothing is touching it. It's just hanging out somehow and there's no charge being introduced to it and no charge being removed from it. Now in reality, this sphere would have to be held by something. Let's say it's held by some stand and the only important thing is that this stand be what's called an insulator. An insulator is something which doesn't allow charges to move around inside of it. But we'll get to that in a bit. Now, this metallic sphere, just like the human body, is made of atoms. And those atoms contain positive protons and negative electrons. And let me get rid of some of this stuff, so we can focus on the problem at hand. I mentioned before that our stand has to be an insulator, something in which charges are stuck and can't move. The other end of the spectrum is a conductor in which electrons are free to move. Now in the case for our conducting sphere, of course, the sphere is a conductor and the positive and negative charges in this neutral conductor are perfectly balanced. I've drawn seven, in reality, they'd be trillions and trillions but what I want to know is, let's say, we're somehow able to find a positively charged object. This is a net positive charge and we could bring it close to this conducting sphere. Can you think about this problem and tell me what would the charge distribution in this sphere look like when we bring this charge close? Which of these pictures best indicates what the charge distribution in this sphere will look like once we've brought a positive charge close to the right-hand side? Now, you have to think about this for a minute. Think of what it means to be a conductor. Think of what sorts of charges are attracted and repelled? I think you can probably get this one right. Good luck. And the correct answer is that the charge distribution will look like this. The positive charge will attract the negatives over to this side but this negative has to come from somewhere. Well, previously they were hanging out positive charges over here. Once they leave those positive charges, that leans a deficit of electrons on this side, and so this left side becomes positively charge as the right side becomes negatively charge. What we have just discovered is the phenomenon known as polarization, and that's what we call when charges separate--positive on one side and negatives on the other. At the heart of polarization, we have a charge attracting opposite charges. We found something very similar happens when a lightning cloud comes overhead. These clouds tend to have a lot of negative charge built up at the bottom of them. We haven't talked about how yet, but this negative charge gets there. Well, what happens is this negative charge in the clouds causes some of the negative charges in the ground to be upheld--leaving a deficit of electrons and excess of protons. This causes the ground to actually become slightly positively charge. This concept of polarization is essential to the functioning of what we're going to find-- this Benjamin Franklin's solution to saving buildings from lightning strikes. Let's actually think about what would happen if ??? a perfect sphere, we change the shape of our conductor, because ??? with a sphere where the negative charges have a large surface over which they can distribute themselves. What if we made this a pointier shape, not a sphere but a cone--do I still expect polarization to happen. But qualitatively, is there any way difference between what happen with the sphere and what happen with the cone. At the tip of this cone, is the concentration or density of negative charges higher than it was with the sphere, lower or the same, and I admit this is quite a tricky question. Think about it and take your best guess but don't worry if you're wrong. Well, these negative charges all want to get as close to the positive charges they possibly can-- which means all packing in to this one tiny little tip, which means the concentration will be higher. This will turn out to be very important when we design a tool to save our buildings from lightning strikes, and this is something that some people call the effect of points, mainly that pointed objects tend to have higher concentrations of negative charge accumulating in them in these situations than rounder objects or flat objects, but there's still huge question to be answered--namely, where did this guy come from, how do we get a positively charge object to begin with. Far all we've seen are how an object can become polarized, how the charges can separate. I want to know how to get a charge object. How do we charge an object? Well, there are actually several ways. One way is we can charge by friction. And if you've ever rubbed your feet on the carpet and then touched your friend who was standing nearby and giving them a shock you have charged yourself by friction. And what's going on here, the rubbing between two objects actually causes one to steal the electrons of the others. Now, it doesn't steal the protons because protons are well relatively gigantic compared to electrons. Electrons are tiny, tiny little guys. And so it turns out that just simple rubbing can actually cause an exchange of charge leaving one object positive and one negative. In fact, this sort of charging happens in cumulonimbus clouds and these are the sorts of clouds that cause lightning. And what happens is little drops of ice or water are constantly moving around in this cloud and as these droplets pass through the cloud rubbing against each other and passing through different regions of the cloud they gradually either accumulate or lose electrons depending on what they're moving on and the details of the actual situation but what this does is it creates a motion of charge. Whether this is positive or negative. Whether it's going up or down. It doesn't really matter. What happens is charge separates and what that usually leads to is chaotic motion of particles. There's a buildup of minus charges in the bottom of the cloud and positive charges at the top. Now we've already shown that these minus charges lead to corresponding positive charges building up in the ground. We're starting to really understand lightning here as well as electricity. We can use charging by friction to create a charged object. Let's say we've created a positively charged ball. A good way to do this is by rubbing something metallic with let's say rabbit fur. Anyways we have this positively charged ball. and we know that if we bring it near to this ball we'll induce some polarization. Negative charges on this side and positive on that side. Fine. But what happens if this ball touches that ball? We bring this over and let them touch and remember they're both conductors. All in all, what do you think will happen when I touch this ball to that? Do you think nothing will happen? Do you think that some positive charges will flow from ball B to ball A? Do you think that some negative charges will flow from A to B? Or do you think that all the positive charges on ball B will flow to ball A? Think about what it means. There will certainly be a conductor, and then give this question a shot. Well, being a conductor means the electrons are free to move, not protons. Protons like I said before are really quite big. Electrons are tiny. Electrons are easy to move around. So positive charges aren't going to do any flowing. But what will happen is some electrons will flow from A to B. Remember, electrons have a negative charge and they'll do that because this positive charge is attracting them. And that is our second method of charging. Charging by conduction. It's when you touch a charged object to an uncharged object, and the uncharged object becomes charged. There's one more very clever method of charging an object that involves polarization. Now as a reminder, polarization occurs when we bring a charged object next to an uncharged conductor and allow the charges to separate because the negatives are charged to the positive and the positives are repelled. Now, I want to do something a little different, something that we haven't done before. I want you to really think creatively here and tell me how can we use this idea of polarization to create a charged object or maybe to create two charged objects? You can start to see here that it looks like there should be a way to create something that's charged here. Maybe one, maybe two objects that are charged but I leave it up to you to enter into this box what you think would be the best way to create charged objects using this polarization idea. If you think you have a particularly clever method, you should go to the form and share it there. Since I'm so confident that you can tell me this answer on your own, I'm not going to tell you at all but if the anticipation is just killing you and you need to know if your method is right, which I bet it is, you can go ahead and look up charging by induction. Go ahead and enter your answer here. Don't worry, you'll be marked correct regardless of what you put but I hope put some time to this and I'll be going over and looking for some clever ways to charge an object using this idea of polarization. Okay, so I lied. I am going to tell you how charging by induction works. But I hope you did put some thought into it. One way you can charge by induction is by exchanging your single sphere for two connected by a detachable conducting rod. In this case, negative charges will be attracted to this end of our little dumbbell and positive charges will be left in this end, then we can just detach our connection and tada, we have two charged objects--one positive and one negative. It turns out this actually another method to charge by induction. This method, just like the first method, also uses two spheres but here, one of those spheres is actually the earth. Let's say you have your conducting sphere and it's attached to the ground by a conducting rod. Let's also add a bunch of wires that extend into the ground and then let's hold a positive charge over our conducting sphere. What's going to happen is that we're going to actually draw electrons from the earth. If we then detached this sphere, we can even remove the positive charge and now here we have it, a negatively charged sphere. And this negative charges somehow came from the ground. Now, of course, this must mean that throughout the earth, there must be a few extra positive charges lingering around. They've lost their electrons. It seems like if we were to do this experiment over and over and over, well, eventually we'd have a positively charged earth and that might be a problem. It turns out that this is a non-issue and I want you to tell me why you think this works and why it's a non-issue? Maybe you think the earth is somehow able to create electrons create this negative charges, so that actually there's no residual positive charge leftover. Maybe it has something to do with the fact that the earth is huge. Maybe that has something to do with the reason why this never becomes a problem where we actually wind up charging the earth with some noticeable amount. Or maybe you think the earth is an insulator, something in which charges cannot move and that this somehow saves us and allows this whole process to work. Check what you think is the best answer. Well, the first thing I want to clear up is that the earth is not an insulator. The only reason this method works at all that we can draw this electrons up from the earth is because the earth is more of a conductor than an insulator. That was a bad answer. Also the earth is not able to create electrons. Nothing can create an electron without also somehow creating a corresponding positive charge. The truth is part of the reason why we can do this is because the earth is just gigantic. What if I take a few negative charges from the earth. Eventually, they'll probably wine up back in the earth. The truth is, the earth serves as an infinite source and sink of electrons. Source means for all affective purposes, we can count on the earth to provide us with whatever electrons we need in this situation. Likewise, we can also deposit electrons into the earth, essentially infinitely. This idea that the earth is an infinite source and sink of electrons, well that's what the word grounding means. Let's talk to Lucio Fregonese to see what he has to say about the topic. We say that the body is grounded when it is an electrical communication with the earth, and so there is an electrical conductor and electrical path connecting it to the earth, and making it one conductor together with the earth. And it is a good situation sort to say because the earth is a big conductor, and so quantities of charge if ones eat little. This thing might be a useful concept, this idea of grounding when we have a lighting strike and we need somewhere to put all of that electricity.--Looks like we're making some serious progress. Well, we've already learned a lot about electricity. We know that negative charges like to be with positive charges. We know four methods to charge an object, and we've learned that the earth is both a source and a sink for electrons. But one thing we haven't talked about at all— one of the most important concepts in physics is energy. Why don't we go back to Professor Fregonese and see what he has to say about energy as it relates to electricity. One of the most evident effects of electricity are attractions and repulsions of electrified bodies and this is important because you can use these forces to produce work, to produce energy. We can start understanding it with an analogy with gravity, which is simple because we have only attraction and electricity is much more complicated because you have also this complication of repulsion. If I have a body of mass, there is an attraction between the body and the earth and there is potential energy. If I drop this body, it has the capacity to produce some work maybe to break a neck down there. It goes down and the potential energy diminishes and it acquires kinetic energy, movement, velocity, and which is proportionate to the square of velocity. With electricity, it's more complicated because of repulsion but the idea is similar. You can use the interactions between electrified borders between charges to produce work so to have energy to produce something. To talk about electric potential energy, let's imagine a universe that only has two charges in it and let's say they're both positive. And the separation between these charges we'll call r. And what I want to know is when do you think electric potential energy which I'm using a big U with the subscript E to indicate--when do you think that's highest? Do you think it's highest when r is big? when it's small? Or maybe it doesn't matter what r is. Now when you're thinking about this question, I want you to think okay there's two positive charges. Are they going to attract or repel? Given whatever that tendency is, if I move them closer well is there going to be more energy stored in them or less? Are they going to have more capacity to do work or less? And you think of this as compressing a spring. When I compress the spring more and more and more, I'm storing more and more energy in it, likewise, with these two charges. When r is really small or those charges really want to fly apart, they want to fly off into the distance and acquire kinetic energy. That is when the electric potential energy is highest. Now, we should probably quantify this mathematically. Looking back at our universe where there's only two positive charges. I'll call them q1 and q2 and in this case they're both positive, but they can be negative or one of each. It turns out that the electric potential energy is equal to some constant K<i>q1<i>q2/r.</i></i> Now K is just a constant. Its value is 9<i>10⁹</i> and maybe you can tell me by doing your dimensional analysis skills what the units are, but that's for the forums. What this equation tells us is that well if the charge is bigger either this charge is the potential energy increases proportionally. If the distance of separation is bigger, the potential energy decreases proportionally. The derivation for this equation is actually really fascinating, something we won't do here, but it basically comes from the idea that there's a certain amount of work required to move these charges from very, very far away into this configuration and that work happens to be equal to this. Let's do some quick practice, let's imagine that q1 is actually a minus charge of -1c and q2 with a +3c, and let's say the separation between them is 2 m. You need to tell me the potential energy. I've already filled in the x10¹⁰ because that's what your exponent is going to want to be when you convert this to scientific notation. You can you just fill in this part here with the potential energy ought to be and be very careful with the sign. Well let's plug into this equation. When we carry out this multiplication, we get a result of -1.35 x10¹⁰ J. Now notice that this is a negative number and in fact, if r were smaller, so these were closer together, it would have been a more negative number. It would have been a lower potential energy. Now in genuine physics, objects like to be in a low energy state. Balls like to roll downhill and positive charges like to be with negative charges. And we can see in this equation that if one charge is positive and the other negative, well this energy will be negative, and this r want to be as small as it possibly can. Now, what happens if there is more than two charges--for instance three. How do we use this equation to find the potential energy of this system. We have three charges all separated by 1 m and this one is +2, this one -3, and this one is +4c. One thing not to be confused by is the fact that even though this is q1 and q2 that is not saying that this formula exclusively applies to q1 here and q2 there. I just happen to label this charge q1 and this charge q2. I could have labeled this one q7 and this one q? and this one q smiley face, but I didn't. This equation just means that for any pair of charges, there's potential energy stored and this one and two just referred to the two charges in that pair. If we want to calculate the potential energy of this system, we have to calculate the energy associated with this pair of charges, this pair, and that pair. We'll have to make three calculations. Could you tell me what is the potential energy stored in this system of three charges, and you can enter your answer here and I've already included the x10¹⁰, again, be careful with your sign. Okay. Let's see. Here's the factor in all three pairs. The potential energy is just the sum of K<i>Q1<i>Q2 over this distance plus Q1<i>Q3 over this distance plus Q2<i>Q3 over this distance.</i></i></i></i> Now, if we plug in our numbers, Q1 is +2, Q2 is -3, and Q3 is +4, we find that the answer is -9<i>10¹⁰ J.</i> Now, a very interesting question is where is this energy stored. Where is the energy stored? In the previous example we have three charges 2+ and 1-, and we want to know, well is the energy stored in the charges? Somehow in the space between? And the answer is that the energy stored in something called the electric field. Now the concept of the field is a strange one. So don't worry if this is intuitive at first. We actually could have talk about this concept of a field when we talk about gravity. So for example, if you look at the earth, we can draw this imaginary arrows pointed towards the center of the earth and these arrows somehow indicate what would happen if I put a mass near them. If I put a mass in this arrow, well it will a feel force into the direction that the arrow is pointing. These arrows are somehow representing the gravitational field. The electric filed is very similar in the same way that gravity is caused by mass, electric fields are created by charges, and just as gravitational fields are felt by mass, electric fields are felt by charges. Both created and felt by objects with charge. Interesting! Now, how are we going to measure the electric field. Well it must have some strength associated with it. The way we measure that strength is by putting a small test particle with a charge let's say +q somewhere and if there's an electric field, this object will feel a force. Electric fields cause forces, and of course if this charge were bigger, the force will be bigger. But it seems like there's something more fundamental going on than the force on this particular charge. Actually, what we want to do is to find the electric field in the following way as being equal to the force but we divide by whatever the charge of the particle we're putting in this. If we find that there is some force in this direction that means it must also have been an electric field in this direction at this point. As a quick example of how to use this equation, E=F/q. Let's say we take our +1c charge, set it down somewhere and note that it feels a force to the right of 4N. Well the electric field is just force over charge 4/1 and both of those numbers are positive. In this case the E field or electric field would be 4N/c and maybe I'd want to say something like to the right because electric field is a vector. It has both the size and the direction. Now what if I gave you a different problem. Let's say I have a negative charge that when placed in a certain electric field fills a force of 10 N to the right. Can you fill this out for me? Can you tell me what's the strength of the electric field is? And that strength should be a positive number and can you tell me whether it's an electric field to the right or to the left. When I do my F/q like 10/-0.2, I get a value of -50, but the negative actually just means that the electric field is to the left. Negative charges fill forces opposite the direction of the electric field whereas positive charges fill forces in the same direction. All right, so we've learned that the electric field exerts a force on particles. If I have an E-field that looks like this and I put a positive charge there, well, it's going to feel force to the right and a negative charge would feel force to the left. All right, but how do I know how to draw these lines? Where did they come from? Where did they go? Let's learn about that. The field line himself. Well, I mentioned before that electric field is not just felt by charges, it's created by charges. If I have a positive charge, well the associate electric field will look like this. The field lines will be evenly spaced and radiating outwards from the charge. This makes sense because I know if I put a positive charge here, well it better be repelled from this guy and according to this, it will. Likewise, a negative charge looks very similar but the field lines point inwards. Again, this makes sense. I know that a positive charge better be attracted to this negative charge and according to this electric field line, it will be and a negative charge, if I put it here, will be repelled since negative charges go opposite the direction of field lines. Now, knowing what you know about field lines, maybe you can tell me if I have a positive and a negative charge and they're next to each other, what would the electric field look like? I'm going to give you a few options and you pick the best one. Which of these four options do you think best describes the electric field that exists when you have two charges, a positive on the left and a negative on the right. Do you think it's this one? Do you think maybe there's no electric field. Do you think it's this one, where there is no electric field but it bends in this weird way, or maybe this one or that one. Think about it, think about maybe what would happen if you put a positive test charge somewhere and what direction you'd expect the force to be? Good luck. This is a tricky question. Why we really love thinking about these sort of things? This option is not right. The reason this is not right is this has no electric field anywhere. Clearly, if I put a positive charge in the middle somewhere, it will go to the right towards the negative charge so that can't be right. There must be some electric field, but on this one, this one has a weird shape. According to this one, if I put a charge here, it would fill a force upwards, it looks like. Now, that doesn't make sense. It should be attracted more towards the negative charge. There's no reason for to go up so that's wrong. These two look very similar. It's just the matter of what they point to the positive or point towards the negative, and the correct answer is they should point towards the negative. One thing that's really interesting is to look at the strength of the electric field and how we see that with these pictures. So for example, right between these two charges, the field would be very strong. You can see there's a high density of field lines here. In this one little drawing I made, this little shape, three field lines have gone through. They are all tightly packed together. Tightly packed field lines mean a strong field. Way out over here, I can draw a similar area, and no field lines are going through. The electric field would be very weak over here. We're very close to understanding how to solve our problem-- how to prevent buildings from getting struck by lightning. Let's take a look. Here's our cloud overhead. And the bottom of that cloud is negatively charged. That induces some positive charge on the ground, and this leads to some complicated pattern of electric field. Okay, so we've got these buildings. We know that they're at risk of being struck by lightning. In fact, well, there's a lot of ways to explain what's going on with this lightning. It's a very complicated subject. But one thing that's going to happen is a little bit of charge due to this negative charge will be induced on the roof. And since the tip of this roof is a little closer, a little more charge will be induced there and a little less over here and that's going to modify the electric field. It's going to make the electric field around here a bit stronger and quite a bit stronger here and even a little bit stronger over this building. Now, can you tell me which of these three buildings is most likely to get struck by lightning? Well, you might know this from experience--personal experience. And remember, physics always has to be in line with your personal experience, right? This building is the most likely. It's the tallest. The electric field around here is stronger than the electric field around here. And in fact, the reason why lightning actually occurs is because the electric field exceeds some threshold strength. Once the electric field is sufficiently high, that's when lightning can strike. And a lightning strike can lead to fire and other disasters. That's what we want to avoid. We're basically there. We need to install some object let say that was Benjamin Franklin's idea. And I think you could probably tell me what property this object ought to have if we want it to get struck by lightening or to sort of discharge these clouds in order to prevent the lightening from hitting the building. So using everything we know about electricity, should the object we install here should it be tall or should it be short. Also should it be conducting as in should charge be allowed to flow along it or should be an insulator. Should it be grounded or should it not be grounded? This is the sort of thought process that I'm sure Benjamin Franklin went through when solving this problem. For each of these options, can you select one of the two radio buttons. Good luck. Well first of all it's got to be tall. If it's not tall, the building will be hit before our object is. It's got to be conducting, if it isn't conducting, well, no charge will flow through it and will be pretty difficult to entice lighting to strike our object, and finally it's got to be grounded. We got to disperse all of this electrical charging energy somehow, and the way we're going to do that is by dumping it into the earth to the ground, and so there you have it. We've basically solved the problem, so let's go to Professor Fregonese one more time and see what he has to say. Franklin Benjamin idea was to discharge clouds as there is an effect called the effect of points. Points have the property of discharging electricity, so this was Franklin's idea. It was put in practice, but it doesn't work this way. It catches the lightning, so to say. The explanation is a bit complicated. It produces modifications of the electrical field and then it is important that it conveys the electricity through a conductor avoiding the circuit through the building. It conveys electricity to the earth so discharge it to the earth. The earth receives the electricity of lighting because it is a very big body, and so it can receive an extra amount of electricity. At the time of Benjamin Franklin, it was thought as a sort of general receiver of the electricity. There you have it. We've invented the lighting rod. Good work! And all the lighting rod is a large conducting pole placed in your building or on top of your building with a wire running along the side, and it must be properly grounded, and what happens is when a storm cloud comes over head, it draws but we can think of this as drawing positive charge up. Really what it's doing is forcing negative charge into the earth, but it creates a really strong electric field in this region, and the lighting instead of striking the house--it will strike our pole and life is good. No more buildings get burn down. Amazing! Good work Benjamin Franklin and good work to you. Well, congratulations. We talked about a lot in this unit. In fact, you learned all the basics of electricity. You've learned about the two different types of charge and how they interact. You learned several methods for charging a neutral object and how this method relate to lightning. We learned a bit about the cause of lightning and discovered that a tall conducting pole connected to the ground can effectively catch lightning and safely redistribute both the charge and electrical potential energy into the ground without destroying any buildings. Next unit would be a bit about many unit on the future of physics as well as the final exam. See you next week. Welcome back. We're back in the United States in California, and behind me is the Stanford dish. Now, the dish is a radio telescope, and it uses its parabolic reflector to focus radio waves into its antenna. Now, radio waves are just another form of light. Light does not travel instantaneously from the stars to our eyes. It takes time for light to make that journey. What this means is that when we look deep into space, we're actually looking back in time. In this unit, we'll learn a little bit about special relativity and some of the fascinating but completely unintuitive physics that happen when we move at speed near the speed of light. Now special relativity is really an amazing subject. For me, when I took special relativity, this was the first time that I encountered something that was completely unintuitive, and by that, I mean the conclusions which we're going to draw from special relativity are going to be things we never see in our daily lives. And that's because special relativity deals with the realms of the very, very fast of objects moving near the speed of light. The speed of light is such as important number in physics that we give it own variable. We call it lowercase c and it's value is about 3x10⁸ m/s. In fact the exact value is 299,792,458 m/s, but this is the approximation we're going to be using in this unit. All right, so I have told you how crazy and mind blowing this topic is going to be. Where do we begin such a topic? Who do we start with? What do we talk about? Well, let's start with our good friend Galileo. Now you may have heard that special relativity is Einstein's theory, Albert Einstein, and yes that's true, but just like Newton before him, Einstein stood on the shoulders of Galileo to make his or at least one of his amazing discoveries. In fact, his theory of special relativity can be completely derived by 2 postulates. A postulate or axiom is just something that we believe to be true and which we use. We use these postulates by applying logic to them and eventually we get some conclusions. That's pretty amazing about this approach to problems is that as long as the logic is sound, you can't argue the conclusions if you believe the postulates. What I'm going to do today is show you what these two postulates are. Motivate why they must be true then we'll see a couple of the remarkable conclusions that follow. Let's move forward to the first postulate. Now, you may actually remember the first postulate from Unit 4. Let's say you wake up in a train but this isn't just any train--this is the train of physics. And the thing that's so nice about the train of physics is that it has a completely smoother ride, it's silent, and the track is completely straight, also the windows are blacked out, so you can't see outside. Let's say you just woke up in this train and you don't know if it's still, if it's at rest or if it's moving in a constant speed. My question is what experiment can you do to determine if the train is moving at a constant speed of it's at rest in the tracks. Maybe you could drop objects and absorb their trajectory if they fall. Maybe you could push objects along the floor of the train and maybe by pushing them forwards or pushing them backwards, you can see something different if the train is moving. Or maybe you can hang a pendulum from the ceiling and if the train is moving forward, may be the pendulum would behave in some strange way. Okay, so I want you to think about these options and select all that apply before you hit submit. And the answer is none of them. Okay, that was a really dirty of me. I'm sorry. I'm sorry if you clicked some of them thinking there must be an answer. The truth is that none of these experiments can distinguish between constant speed motion and being at rest. In fact, the laws of physics are identical from motion in constant speed and motion at rest. This is such an important concept that we give it it's own name. The term we give to this is Galilean relativity. There we see it--that word relativity. Not special in front of it yet but we're getting there, and this term which is the first postulate of special relativity, it says that the laws of physics are the same in all inertial frames of reference. Now, these are words we haven't seen before but don't worry. Frames of reference we can think of for now as just meaning point of view. Inertial just means moving at a constant speed or being at rest. So what this sentence is really saying is that the laws of physics are the same in all points of view which are either moving at constant speed or at rest. And in fact, this concept of rest is a very strange one, even the train. Even if we could have opened the window in the train and seen the world flying by us. Is it the train moving or is the world moving beneath the train? All we can say for sure is that the world and the train are moving relative to each other. This idea of absolute rest is one we really have to sort of abandon now that we have this idea of Galilean relativity. I want you to tell me is which of the following is an inertial frame of reference: a bike accelerating downhill, a car parked on the street, a plane traveling around at a constant speed of 500 km/h, or an object which has recently been dropped off the Leaning Tower of Pisa and is now in free fall--check all that apply. Al right, so inertial frame of reference means constant speed or at rest, though we can't really distinguish between the two we decided. Well, a car parked on the ground--definitely at rest--likewise, a plane flying at a constant velocity. This object in free fall is going to move downwards at constant acceleration but not constant speed. And likewise, with the bike. All right, so we've got the first postulate. The first postulate of special relativity in this idea that the laws of physics are the same in inertial frames. Before we move on, let's go back to our train. Let's say the train of physics is moving to the right at a speed of 10 m/s relative to the ground, and let's say you're on this train, and you start walking forward towards the front of the train with a velocity--well, we already use v so I use u--of 2 m/s, I want to know what's your total speed relative to the ground. How fast, when you have both the train motion and your motion, are you moving across the ground. Enter your answer here in meters per second. This isn't too complicated--the train is moving 10 plus we're moving forward with an additional 2 m/s for a total speed of 12 m/s. If we've been walking the other way, it would have been 8 m/s. Now, let's crank things up a notch. Let's say that instead of going 10 m/s, this train is going 2 10⁸ m/s. Remember, the speed of light c is 3 10⁸ m/s. So the train is moving at 2/3 the speed of light. Obviously, no train could actually do that--well, no train except for the train of physics. Okay and let's get this guy out of here. Things are getting dangerous on this train. Let's put him down here by the side of the tracks where he can safely watch the train as it goes by. Let's also imagine this train has one of those really cool and powerful train headlights. So we know that the speed of the train is 2 10⁸ m/s relative to the ground on this person standing there and the speed of light is 3 10⁸ m/s, now what I want to know at what speed is the light approach Phil and I've named our guy down here Phil. And I'll give you a hint, it's something times 10⁸m/s. It's either 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 or 9. And you just have to answer the appropriate number here. Once again, this was one of those I didn't really expect you to get it right sort of questions and so I sort of apologize but also not really. The answer is 3 10⁸ m/s. These velocities don't add up the way they seem to add up when you're just walking along the train. This itself is fairly mind blowing. How can the speed of light be the same. How could it still be approaching him at 3 10⁸ m/s. Shouldn't it have gotten some boost from the train. Shouldn't it be 5? The answer is no, actually. And in fact, this leads us to the second postulate. We have our second postulate that the speed of light and empty space is always c regardless of the frame of reference. Now, this seems like a pretty incredible postulate. We still don't see any good justification for why this must be the case. For example with the train situation, why wouldn't the speed of the light increase if it's coming from a moving train? Well, there are a few answers for why we believe this. One reason is that well it's a mathematical reason--Maxwell's equations which are the equations that describe light. These actually seem to predict a constant speed of light, though we won't go into exactly why, but the reasons for believing this weren't just mathematical. Einstein also had empirical evidence. One important piece of empirical evidence came from an ingenious experiment done by Michelson and Morley. I'm not going to go into that right now but feel free to check out the link below this video if you're interested in reading more. The events I want to talk about came from Willem De Sitter. De Sitter's observations were of what's known as a binary star system. Now a binary star system has as you might guess two stars, and these two stars orbit around each other. More precisely, they're orbiting on the center of mass. These orbits often are very small, very small radius and also very fast and so what De Sitter did was look at the light and made it from these stars a different points in their orbit. So for now, let's just pay attention to star one and just ignore star two. So we know that if it's going around this way, well at this instant in its trajectory, its velocity would be pointing in that direction. Eventually, these stars are going to make it all the way around here and its velocity will be pointing in exactly the opposite direction. Now if the speed of light were not constant in all reference frames, if you really could throw a light forward like a baseball and when we look at this light on earth, we might expect to see some strange effects. I'm actually going to let an animation speak for me on this one. So here we have our one star of our binary system and it's making a circular orbit. Now at this upper point in the orbit, you can see it's moving away from this detector over here. At the lower point of its orbit down here, it's moving towards the detector giving more additional velocity to the light, and if you look over here you can see that that light, which was admitted at the lower portion, actually overtakes the other light that was admitted earlier. This would lead to some really strange observations. So for example, at some point when this and this light arrive at the exact same time like from the bottom and top, well that means we'll be seeing the same star in two places, and it turns out De Sitter found that that doesn't happen. This was a very clever experiment to confirm experimentally the second postulate of special relativity. All right, it's time for the most important quiz. We've learned the two postulates with special relativity-- the first was Galilean relativity, which said that all inertial frames of reference are equally valid. The laws of physics are the same in all of them. And the second was that the speed of light is constant in all frames of reference. Now, time for the most important quiz of this unit. If you do not get this one correct, you may not move on until you know and believe the correct answer. And the question is--do you believe these two postulates. Yes or no. And I hope that you said yes because once you leave these postulates from some fairly simple math, we're going to derive some very amazing conclusions. So, if you believe the postulates, let's do some amazing things. So, I'm sorry to say but the train is back. Train show up all the time in special relativity. Don't ask me why. But joining this train are clocks held by two observers, green and red. I don't know why but their parents named them after the color of their hair. Now, what's going to happen here is that green, well, standing on this train and the train is moving with some velocity v relative to the ground. Well, she's going to do a little experiment. She is going to take her flashlight and bring it down to ground level. She's going to send a beam of light straight up so that it bounces off a mirror and then come straight back down and she's going to time how long it takes the beam of light to make this round trip. I should mention the train has a height we call h. Well, now that we're studying relativity, we've really to think about whose point of view we're solving the problem from and first I think about the train point of view. From the point of view of the train, this is the right drawing to draw. From green's point of view it looks like, well, she doesn't know the train is at rest, so it looks like the light goes straight up then comes straight back down. So we drew a little arrow here showing that this represents the green point of view. From the red point of view, well as the train speeds by, it's not going to look like the beam of light goes straight upwards. It's going to go over at some angle then bounce back down and be collected and observed. One thing that's potentially confusing here that I should point out I've tried drawing both of these perspectives on one train that's difficult to do. The red observer will not see the light leave from this portion of the train and then end up on this portion of the train in front of this front wheel because the train would have move forward as well. Okay. Great. So, we've got our two frames of reference, the green frame and the red frame, and the light seems to take different trajectories in each frame. Let's call this total distance traveled up and down in the green frame equal to d and the total distance the light spends traveling in the red frame d’. This prime is what we're going to use often in special relativity to indicate a different frames. We have our two different frames. Everything that we're talking about in the red head frame, we'll put a prime on. Now, my question is which of these paths are longer? Actually, what I really want to know is which of these statements are true. Is the distance traveled in the green frame less than, equal to, or greater than the distance traveled in the prime frame? We can imagine drawing a right triangle here and d' still has to cover this vertical distance, but it also has to cover some horizontal distance. That means this hypotenuse here--that's longer than the upward leg of this trajectory, and likewise this hypotenuse is longer than the downward leg. So d' must be larger, so d is less than d' and as long as we're getting specific with our primes and unprimes, let me mention that this clock is measuring the time t whereas this clock is measuring time t'. So let's look a little closer at d and d'. Well, to go up, it needs to go up the high h and again the high h down, so that's just 2h. That's not we know about the distance in the green frame. There's a term on this clock t. Let's say we haven't measured the time it takes to go from the bottom to the top. Well, then I know that this distance is just equal to velocity times time. Remember that's an equation we can always use when something is moving at constant speed and we believe that this light is moving at constant speed. That needs to go bottom to top the ct and to go top back to bottom is also ct, which means the total distance traveled is 2 ct. I know this is a lot of math but bear with me because it's about to get pretty interesting. Now, let's look at the prime frame. In the prime frame, we have this right triangle. Now, I'm going to tell you that one of these three sides of this triangle where it's length must be ct' because we're talking about the prime frame. So I want you to tell me which of these three sides has a length of ct'. Well, the answer is this one. This is the path that the light is taking in the end prime frame. It's moving at a slight diagonal that means the total d' this whole distance up and back down is 2ct'. Okay, so this side is ct', this side is h, and this side well its vt'. It's the speed of the train, v times the time a lot that's how far the train has advanced. So, actually, I have this wonderful right triangle, base, height of h and hypotenuse is ct'. I'm going to do the Pythagorean theorem, this squared plus that squared must equal this squared, and when I do that, I get v²t'² + h² equals--well, this side squared and I'm writing the t' in red just so we can keep focus on them. Now, actually, what I want to do is I want to solve for t' so, I'm going to move this term over to this side and what I've done here is I've factored out the t'² and then I'm going to divide both sides by this c²-v² so now, I have this. My next step is a bit of a trick so what I'm going to do is I'm going to divide both the numerator and the denominator on the left hand side by c² and since I'm doing each both the numerator and denominator that's totally fine and what I get when I do that is this and now, may be you can start to see why I decided to divide by c². I did that because when we look at these two equations. These are both d so I can set them equal to each other, 2h = 2ct. The 2 is canceled and t is equal to h/c. Remember this is the unprimed t so what I can do is replace this h/c with t. Now, what I have is a relationship between the time measured on, well unfortunately I erased red, but measured on red's clock and the time t measured on green's clock. Let's just take the square root of both sides, and I find that the time measured on t', the red clock is equal to the time measured on this guy's clock with this mathematical expression modifying it. I would have no reason to believe that two identical clocks should ever run at different rates, but what I found here is that it is not only that the clocks are running at different rates that time itself can't be universally specified. My time is not the same as your time if we're moving relative to each other. This is amazing. Let's look at this equation in a little more detail. So with this effect but I haven given a name to yet but we're going to call time dilation. You'll see why in a minute and we have these equations relating the rates at which different clocks tick. And actually this number v/c--I'm going to stop writing v/c. Instead I'm going to use this number or variable β to represent the ratio of a frame's speed to the speed of light and the variance are polishing things up, let's go one step further and instead of writing t‘ like this, lets put the t out and give this quantity in parenthesis its own name and the name I'm going to give-- well, we've seen the α and β, it's time for the next Greek letter, is γ. So now, our complicated equation becomes t'=γt. So actually we want to understand what's going on here. We need to understand γ a little better. So first let me tell you without giving you much proof and I'm sorry for doing it that v the speed that we can move or about a frame of reference can move-- well it has an upper bound--it can't go any faster than c, can't go faster than the speed of light. So we can go with the slowest 0 stop or up to the speed of light which means that β is between 0 and 1. That can't be equal to the speed of light. I want you to tell me what's the minimum and maximum value for γ. So for γ min, it's the lowest possible value of γ as it is low as we want. Can it go to a negative or billion--it's the lowest possible value 0 or is the lowest possible value 1. Likewise, for γ max, it's the highest possible value that γ can be. Is it 1, 2 or can γ max grow as large as we want. So that's two questions. Select the best answer for each. Let's plug in a β of 0, so when not moving, the two frames we're discussing aren't moving at all, the train is at rest, well we've have 1/√1-0, which is 1/1. It turns out that that's the lowest possible value that gamma can ever take, so that's gamma min. For gamma max, as we get closer and closer to 1, as β gets closer and closer to 1, well 1 minus that number squared does get smaller and smaller, and as we divide by a smaller and smaller number, we get bigger and bigger, and it turns out that the maximum value is as high as we would like. And so actually if we want to plot this value gamma versus β, well we defined that for a very long time gamma is very close to 1, but then it quickly rises and gets bigger and bigger and bigger as β approaches 1 or as we approach the speed of light. What is that mean? It means that this number gets bigger. It means that the time measured on the stationary observer's clock gets longer and longer when compared to the moving observer. This is why we call it time dilation. Let's look at an example to see if we can make some sense in this. So check it out, here's your friend and somehow your friend got to go on a spaceship ride, and they're moving at 60% the speed of light, and here you are down at earth bored watching your friend, jealousing. Now, since you guys know some special relativity, you guys agreed on an experiment. So what your friend said he's going to do, he's going to hold a little stop watch and every 8 seconds, he's going to wave at you--hello. So you know that in his frame of reference every 8 seconds he's waving. So I want to know in your frame of reference using your clock measuring t', how long is the time interval between waves. Remember, he's waving every 8 seconds. Well, let's see t' is always going to be the time of the observer who were considering to be stationary for the time but will the either observe can call themselves stationary. But will it can--this observer's point of view. So t'=gamma<i>t. Well, again, y is just 1/√1-β which is 0.6²--this is 1-0.36.</i> If you carry this out, you get a gamma of 1.25 while t' is just gamma<i>t, t is 8 seconds--</i> then 1.25<i>8 is equal to 10 seconds.</i> If you got that, very good work. Let's ask this question a slightly different way. Let's put in that you're the lucky one who got a ride in the spaceship and your friends stuck back on lame old planet earth. Once again though, let's say your friend is going to wave to you every 8 seconds. Now--now that the roles are reversed and you're in the spaceship and your friends are on earth, I want to know an answer to the same question-- how much time will lapse on your clock between waves? Can you enter your answer here in seconds? I'm guessing you probably figured out that gamma was still 1.25, since β was still 0.6. But you may have tried to divide by gamma instead of multiply, 8 seconds by 1.25 because the correct answer really is 10. Now, you may be asking--I thought when 8 seconds corresponded to 10 down here does not mean fewer seconds corresponds to more seconds? How could it be the case that when I'm in this spaceship my friends waving every 8 seconds 10 seconds elapsed on my clock. It's not a problem with the clocks. This is an inherit part of special relativity. It's something you will learn much more about as you take more courses. Unfortunately, today is just a teaser. If you want to read more, I suggest you look at the twin paradox and other links below this video. Now, maybe you don't believe me, maybe you don't believe that special relativity could possibly be for real. Clock's disagreeing with each other--what's going on, how do we test it. Well, as a matter of fact, we're actually testing special relativity right now, and we're doing that with a series of GPS satellites which are constantly in orbit over earth. The way these satellites can localized someone's position on earth so precisely involves precised measurements of distance between each satellite and the observers' GPS device. This precised distance measurements actually require a precised time measurements, but these satellites are moving relative to the earth, relative to the observer. In fact, they're traveling at about 14,000 km/h. Can you tell me what β is associated with 14,000 km/h-- a.k.a. what fraction of the speed of light is this. Enter your answer in scientific notation. I've put the 10 in here for you and you can put the exponent in here and the rest can go right here. Well, let's see. Let's convert this velocity to meters per second. When we do this conversion, we get a speed of 3890 m/s. I know β is just v/c where c is the speed of light 3<i>10⁸m/s</i> and when I carry this out, I get a value of 1.3<i>10⁻⁵.</i> So actually a very small fraction of the speed of light and actually this leads us to a gamma of 1.000000000084, barely larger than 1 but large enough. These machines are so sensitive that this actually makes a difference and in fact, they pretty quickly accumulate errors if you don't correct for special relativity. Now, the engineers who designed these aren't so certain. They don't want to gamble entirely on special relativity being true so they had an option-- special relativity mode on or off. Einstein would be pleased to know that the special relativity mode is still very much on for the GPS satellites. We're here in Leiden in the Netherlands. Everything that you see around me was once completely submerged in water. The only reason why the Netherlands is still dry today is because a series of dikes have been constructed around the country. Now even with these dikes, we still need to constantly move water from low to high or as we learn to say by the end of this unit, we need to do work on the water to move at some place of low potential energy to places of high potential energy. Today, the dikes that surround the Netherlands help to keep its 17 million inhabitants safe but without human intervention, all the areas that you see in blue would be submerge. Since so much of the country is actually below sea level. Of course this setup isn't perfect, water constantly must be transported up and away from land. One tool, the Archimedes' screw uses power from the Dutch windmills to transport this water and keep the Netherlands dry. We learned about forces in the last unit but thinking in terms of forces may not be enough to understand this complex problem. So here we have the Netherlands. Over here we have the land. Here's the sea and you can see that the sea levels a bit higher than the level of the land. We have this dike preventing the sea from overtaking the land and of course we have this beautiful little wind mill powering this Archimedes' screw. Now seems like this is going to be a very difficult task. We have a lot water to move. To get you starting to think about just how difficult this task could be, I want you to think about this question. What two factors contribute most to the difficulty of this task? So this windmill has a lot of work to do, what two factors contribute most? Maybe the total weight of water or the total amount of water that we have to lift. Maybe the cleanliness of the water is important. Maybe it's the distance, which I've labeled here as d, that we have to lift the water or maybe the temperature of the water is the most important thing or one of the most two most important thing. I want you to choose the best two answers here and then we can talk about that. Well, it wasn't too precise in what I meant by difficulty. You might have chosen different answers than me, but I see that the cleanliness of the water wasn't very important and nor is the temperature. In fact, it's the total weight or total amount of water that we have to lift and the distance we have to lift it that most affected how difficult this task could be. We see this total weight and force we're going to need to supply and this distance we need to supply are both seem to be somehow important concepts. Qualitatively, we know that these are the important concepts, but how can we quantify difficulty? We know when we are quantifying difficulty, it must somehow incorporate these two concepts of total amount or weight of water and the distance we have to lift it and so why don't we start by thinking about the last unit. Well, in the last unit, we learned about force and namely force is the cause of acceleration and we use this equation to describe acceleration. Well, let's try to analyze this situation using forces. Well, I have all this water here that I need to give rid of it that I need to pump up. This water have some mass, which means that I can draw it as a force diagram and to make things simple, I've represented the waters as a simple block of mass m. The block has a weight and the ground is supplying some normal force to keep the water up. We're using forces to analyze this situation and well it seems like total weight of water is taken care of. We've addressed that concept but we haven't talked about the distance we have to lift this water which also seems very important in analyzing or quantifying this difficulty of this task. How much work we're going to have to do. I've been using this word work kind of colloquially but it has a very precise meaning in physics and that's one we're going to learn today. We're also going to learn about energy and what is called the conservation of energy so even though these terms work and energy are relatively new once. We can go all the way back to the time of Archimedes to study their origins. Over 2,000 years ago, Archimedes was obsessed with this simple question-- How can I lift a 100 kg mass to a height of 1 m? Okay so this might not have been exactly how we phrase the question, but this captures the essence of what Archimedes was thinking when he invented many of these simple machines. Naively, we might think the only way to answer these question of how to get this, let's say 100 kg rock unto this 1 m table. It is well, to pick it up and put it on the table. Archimedes, however, realized there's better way to solve this problem. One way is to use an incline plane and we analyzed the incline plane a little bit in the previous problem set. When we use an incline plane, we reduced the force we have to push with the one in expense. We have to push over longer distance before we have to lift 1 m but now we have to push a distance that's greater than 1 m. Another option is to use a system of pulleys. Pulleys actually have the same trade off that incline planes do. We may not have to pull quite as hard but we'll have to pull over a greater distance. Once again we see this force and distance trade off popping up. Another simple machine that can help us out is the lever. If we use the lever, we can exert a smaller force than we would have to if we we're just picking it up but once again we'll have to exert it over a greater distance just to lift this rock 1 m. This is very interesting, let's dig dipper into some of this simple machines and see if can quantify what's going on. Here we have the simple pulley--it's called a simple pulley because the rope goes from the rock wounds over the pulley and right into the person's hand. There's only one, let's call it connection point to the rock. If we want to draw a force diagram for this rock as we are lifting, we have the weight going downwards and that will be balanced by the tension, label T in the rope. Remember in a rope, the tension is constant throughout. So, what do you think what causes the tension in the rope? And this is a sort of subtle question. There's a lot of things you could say or contributing tension in this rope. But I want to know of these three options, what is the best answer? Is the weight of this person, is it how hard this person is pulling, or is it the normal force on the rock? Choose the best answer. Well, it can't be the normal force on the rock, the rock is in the air. The ground isn't pushing up on it and there is normal force. I say the best answer was the pulling force. This person is pulling down on the rope. Depending on how hard they pull, they can control the tension in this rope. So we know that the tension is equal to this pulling force. And it's always going to be true no matter how many pulls to that, and if this tension force is balancing the weight, which it is, well then, these forces are also equal to the weight (mg). And (mg) is about 1000 N because the (m) is 100 kg and (g) is 10 m/s², actually 9.8 but we're using 10. This doesn't seem like a great improvement. We're still using a force equal to the weight to lift this object. Why not just pick it up? Well, that's why this is called the simple pulley. More interesting than the simple pulley is the compound pulley. Now this picture is better than my drawing over here and you can kind of see what's going on. By using this clever mechanism, we actually let the string pull on the object twice. This string is pulling upwards as is this string. If we want to do a force diagram on the subject, we still have (mg) going down but now the tension goes up twice. One representing each of these arrows . What would the tension have to be now in order to balance this 1000 N weight? Enter your answer in Newtons here. We have two tension forces, so each has to be half as big. A force of 500 N twice will balance the 1000 N force. Now that's pretty amazing, of course, there is a caveat. If I'm going to lift this 1 m high, it turns out I'm actually going to have to pull down over a distance of 2 m. Check out the link below this video to understand why this is the case. We said that when we want to lift a 100 kg or 1000 N rock by 1 m, We have at least a couple of ways to do it. With a single simple pulley, we just have to pull with the force of 1000 N over a distance of 1 m. For a compound pulley with two attachment points, we call that a double pulley, we have to pull with a force of 500 N over a distance of 2 m. Can you complete this table for the case of a triple and a quadruple pulley? Let's look at a triple pulley. We'll first see have a triple pulley work. We would wrap around this top pulley. Go down around the bottom, wrap once more around the top and then connect somewhere in the middle here. Now we can see that the tension is pulling upwards one, two, three times. The force diagram for that is well, the weight points down and we have three arrows upwards each representing that tension. Since the weight is a 1000 N, these each balance 1/3 of that and so we get a force of 333 N. Of course the consequence is that your going have to pull three times further than you did in the single case. You can do similar thinking to solve for the quadruple pulley. Now you may already be seeing a very amazing pattern emerging from this data. Before we explicitly point it out there, why don' we calculate one more method for lifting this rock by 1 m, let's look at an incline plane. Here we have an incline plane with a person pushing this, let's say rock, 100 kg up the plane, trying to get it to a height of 1 m. We saw in the last unit that to analyze a block in an incline plane instead of writing mg like normally do going straight down, we can break it into components, which we call perpendicular and parallel components. For the case of a nice smooth frictionless plane, this parallel force is balanced by the pushing force of the guy who I just erased, sorry guy and the perpendicular force is balanced by the normal force of the surface of this plane pushing up against the block. We show in the problem set that the perpendicular force can be expressed as the weight times the cosine of this angle, which we have called α and the parallel force here can be expressed as this mg<i>sin α.</i> Can you tell me for the case of a 100 kg block and angle of 30°, what would this parallel force of gravity, the force tending to pull the block down the incline plane. What would that be equal to? Well, this isn't too bad. We just plug in our known numbers 100 kg<i>10 m/s<i>sin 30°.</i></i> Plug these all in. We find a parallel force of 500 N. Now take a look at this force diagram, this force is going down the plane must be balance assuming it's not accelerating by the force going up the plane. Put another way, the push force and that's the force that the guy pushing on the block was exerting must also be equal to 500N. Just like in the previous examples of the pulleys, we don't just want to know the force we have to exert to move this object up to a height of 1 m. We want to know the distance over which we must exert that force. Can you use your knowledge of trigonometry and geometry to tell me over what distance must we observe this 500 N force to move it from the bottom down here all the way to the top. Well let's see. This is a right angle. This height is 1 m and this side over here is opposite the 30° angle. We want to know about this distance, which is the hypotenuse like. Why not that the sin 30 must be equal to the opposite side over the hypotenuse. We call this unknown side while this is called x and look what we find. This distance d is equal to 2 m. We're on the verge of something amazing here. We have talked about three methods of lifting a rock of 100 kg by 1 m. If we just want to lift the rock, well our force has to balance the weight, which means you're going to need a 1000 N force, and we're going to have to exert that force of a 1m, exactly the height of the table. If we use the pulley, we had a few options. One was a simple pulley with one connection point. We'd have to exert a force of 1000 N over the full distance of 1 m. It was a double pulley, we have to exert half that force, but over twice the distance and so on. If we use an incline plane, well if the angle is 30°, we have to exert a force of 500 N over a distance of 2 m. There's a deep and fundamental pattern emerging here. 1000<i>1, 500<i>2, 250<i>4, 333<i>3 and so on and now it's time for the breakthrough.</i></i></i></i> For all of these seemingly entirely different ways of moving this block up by a height of 1 m something is constant, the force times the distance is always equal to 1000. 1000<i>1, 333<i>3, 500<i>2, it doesn't matter. These are all giving you a value of 1000.</i></i></i> This quantity force times distance is so important that we're going to give it its own name--we're going to call it work. Let's use this idea of work and for now I'm going to call work F Δx. It just means some force times some change in position. This x could also be y. I'm just going to use x for now and let's think of a very simple way of moving water from here up. Now, one thing we can do is well, why not install a ladder. We can take our bucket down to where this water is sort of leaking in, fill it up, carry it up. You need to tell me, how much work is required to lift a 5 kg bucket of water 7 m? Enter your answer here and I'll tell you the unit. This is big J which stands for joules and that's just the unit for work--well, get more into that later. Be careful. The answer is not just 5 7. Okay. Enter your answer there. Well let's think. If we have 5 kg bucket of water, I know that bucket has a weight, mg. I'm going to exert some force and this force actually must balance mg. In the case of a 5 kg bucket, mg would be 5 10, 50 N as with the force I had to supply to hold the bucket. Well work is just force times this distance of 7 m, that's equal to 350 J. And what's truly amazing about work is it doesn't matter if we try to use a pulley or a compound pulley or an incline plane, we have to do this much work to lift the water. Okay, so we've taken our bucket all the way up to the top here that took 350 J of work and now we need to carry it to 4 m so that we can dump it into the sea. Now I want to know, how much work do we do in carrying this 5 kg bucket 4 m over to the sea. Now, I have to issue a little disclaimer here. This is much trickier problem than it looks like at first. You'll probably get it wrong and that's okay. Part of the purpose here is to get you a little bit frustrated because what I'm going to teach you in the solution video is so important that I really want you to remember. The answer is that you do a zero work in moving this bucket 4 m to the side. Now of course, there's no way you should have or could have no met. Don't worry if you got that wrong. Why was there no work done in the previous example? What happened? Well, our definition of work, this is the product of a force and Δx, a distance. Well here, while I'm holding my 5 kg bucket, I'm definitely exerting a force of 50 N and I exerted over a distance of 4 m. Why is the answer not 50 4? Well, the reason is I was dishonest with you. I need to give you a little more instruction on how to use this equation. Noticed that when I write force, I have to write 50 N that's the size but I write an up arrow to represent the direction. When I write Δx, 4 m is the distance, but that distance was to the right. Both of these quantities have both a size 50, 4, and the direction upward to the right, associate with them. When I make this multiplication, I have to very careful on how I do it. Specifically, I have to take what I'm going to call the parallel component of force with the distance. Now, this idea of parallel component is a little hard to explain and a little hard to understand at first. Why don't we go ahead and do an example and I think you'll see what I mean. What do I mean with parallel force? Let's think of Peter pulling his sister, Annie, in a cart. He has his rope here, and it's connected to the cart, and the rope actually makes an angle of 30°. Well, let me give you some other information. The mass of the cart and Annie together is 25 kg. The force that Peter is pulling with is 10 N. And, I want to know if Peter pulls Annie for 15 m, how much work does he do. Well, you might be tempted to say, well work, it's just force times distance. He is pulling with a force of 10 N over a distance of 15 m. Shouldn't that be 150 J? The answer is no. We shouldn't be using this entire force of 10 N, just the parallel component. Let me show you what I mean. I'm going to have to erase Peter and Annie now because this drawing is just getting too cluttered. Instead, Annie is going to become a box. Peter is pulling with a force, we'll call Fp, and as always, there is going to be some normal force. Now, I know the direction of motion of this car is going to be along the street, this way. That means I want to break this force into components, and this is something we know how to do. Here, I've broken it into what we can call a parallel component because this line is parallel to the direction of motion, and there's a perpendicular component, and I remember that this angle is 30°. Now, can you tell me if Peter pulls Annie for 15 m, how much work does he do? Enter your answer here. If you got this right, good work--the way we've solved this is by saying, well, we want to know the parallel component. The cosine of 30 tells me the ratio adjacent to hypotenuse, and that gives me a parallel force of 8.7 N. Now, I just multiply this by 15, and I get a value of about 130 J. Let's do one more problem so that you can practice this on your own. For this problem, let's imagine Justin here is mowing the lawn. His lawnmower has a mass of 7 kg, and when he mows, he pushes down with a force of 20 N and angle here of 60°. If Justin has to push the lawnmower a total distance of 150 m to completely mow this lawn, how much work does he do? Enter your answer here. Well, as always, I'm going to try this a little more simply. Here's my lawnmower, the weight, the normal force, and the push force that comes in like this. But that's not how I would like to draw my forces. I'd like to draw them coming from the object, not going into it. I'm going to draw like this and it has a value of 20 N. I'm going to break that into a parallel component and a perpendicular one, and then I'm going to remember that this angle here is 60°. Well, I know that this is my equation for work and Δx, I know is 150 m. Now, I just need to know F parallel. Well, looking at this right triangle here, I can see F parallel at the adjacent side and carrying out the math, I find F parallel is 10 N, multiplying this by 150 m, I get total work of 1500 J. You got this? Very good. Let's go back to our man, moving water along the dike to see exactly what was going on. So in this case, the man was lifting upwards with some force, but the direction of motion is this way. Actually, let me just extend this arrow, so that we can see this is a right angle. When our vectors are perpendicular in this way, no component of force, whatever will be parallel to Δx. In fact, whenever the force is perpendicular to the displacement of the Δx, no work is done. One thing we haven't thought about, is what happens when the force is in the opposite direction of the displacement? When the parallel component of force is in the opposite direction as the displacement, work is negative. Here' s a guy climbing up some stairs. He's sad because he's blue, and here's a lady carrying a bucket down some stairs. For this question, I just want you to tell me who is doing the positive work and who is doing the negative work? The person going downstairs, check the appropriate box and the person going upstairs, check the appropriate box. This guy is moving his bucket upwards and he is exerting a force that is also somehow upwards. I can take some component of this and it would be parallel to this. Same direction means positive. For the woman on the other hand, well, she still lifts up to hold the bucket upright but she is taking it downstairs. Opposite direction means negative work. And this sort of makes sense, it's in line with our intuition. It's hard to carry heavy things upstairs. To do so, you need to do work on that. Taking things downstairs is much easier. The work done there is negative. This thing wants to go downstairs. I know we're talking a lot about work but that's only because it's such a vital concept. Stick with me a few more minutes and you're going to encounter something amazing. Earlier in the unit, we talked about how much work this man does when he carries the bucket of full of water up this ladder. And we calculated that it was 350 J. Now, it's tempting to say we're done here and we've studied all the work going on but there's another fore-set play--let's look at the diagram. It's not just the man pulling on the bucket, he's pulling against gravity. In this situation of a 5 kg bucket being lifted at 7 m, can you tell me how much work is done by gravity? Well, our force is 15 N and that force was downwards. Our displacement are Δx with 7 m upwards. We can multiply these numbers but we have to remember these are in opposite directions. The work done by gravity is -350 J. The total work is 0. Now, anytime you see a zero in physics, you just start to wonder what's going on? Is it a coincidence? Probably not. Let's think of few examples where work is done and see if we can come up with any where the total work is not 0. I want you to consider these five situations. Lifting a brick by carrying it up some steps at constant speed, walking this bucket up a ladder at constant speed, pushing a crate up an inclined plane at constant speed, or using a pulley to lift a rock at constant speed, or Galileo standing at the edge of the Leaning Tower of Pisa dropping an object. I want you to tell me which of these situations would there be nonzero total work done on the object in question? Check the box next to the appropriate object. The answer is this one, and now, I'm not going to go through all of these other four cases. I'll leave that to you to show that in each of these other four cases, the total work done when you really include everything--gravity, pushing etc., really must be nonzero because in each of these, I said, happened at constant speed. Here, when the object falls, well, that's clearly not constant speed. We know it accelerates. Now, we're getting somewhere. This case is so special out of these five because the motion is changing in a very specific way. When we keep track of the total work which I'll abbreviate with a little T down here, we find that it causes the object's kinetic energy to change which I will label like this. This is so important that I'm going to write it. Work causes changes in kinetic energy. Now, we don't know what kinetic energy is quite yet. Stay tuned one second but this statement is known as the work energy theory and it's vital to physics. Now, let's talk about what this whole energy nonsense is. So what is kinetic energy? Well, it's ½ mv². I hope that right now you're seething. I hope you're writhing in your chair and saying, Andy, that's not what kinetic energy is. That's an equation that describes kinetic energy. What is kinetic energy? Oh, what is kinetic energy? Well, it's the energy associated with motion. Well, I hope now you were saying something like this, because using energy to define kinetic energy isn't helping anything. Well, this question has a short answer. The short answer is, I don't know what energy is, but luckily, I know what energy does. If you've had enough of this philosophical mumbo jumbo, why don't we go ahead and actually solve some problems. We had this idea, this work energy theorem. It says that the total work on an object is equal to it's change in kinetic energy. and since this is the equation for kinetic energy, well the change is just this. The F means final velocity and Vi means initial velocity. So why don't we solve a problem that we've solved previously using motion considerations, but this time, let's solve it using the work energy theorem. So, I want to know what is the ball's final velocity, if it's dropped from rest? You can enter your answer here, and I know I haven't actually shown you how to use this equation yet but you might be able to figure it out just by looking here, and if you can, I think you still have the skills to answer this question. Now, you could have solve this problem using the equation of motion that we learned about in unit 2 or you could have use our new super cool technique of the work energy theory, which is how I'm going to solve this one. For work energy theory, first we need the total work and that is given by this equation. Well, let's look at the forces on the ball. Well, this is an easy one, there is only gravity pointing downwards. Okay, and Δx, well, we're just going to use this distance 57 meters. W = mg 57 and that is also equal to the change in kinetic energy. And notice that an amazing but necessary thing happens, the mass cancels out. I can also multiply both sides by 2. Oh and don't forget that the initial velocity was zero since it was released from rest, and now, we have this equation. I just take the square root of both sides, and I get the final velocity of 34 m/s. So, now, we have another tool to solve this problem. We'll find there's actually places where this tool will solve problems that our previous tools couldn't. I think I teased you a little too much when I said, I don't know what energy is, but I know what energy does. Let's dove into that a little more deeply. This is what energy does or I should say doesn't do--it never ever changes. The total amount of energy in the universe stays the same. Energy is what we call in physics--a conserved quantity. I told you before that I don't know what energy is and I don't need to. I know that there is a certain number that if I calculate it once--let nature do its thing and then calculate it again, I will have the exact same number. This is an amazing fact and one that gives us incredible predictive power. If I could calculate the total energy in the universe today--something that I probably couldn't do-- how much energy would there be tomorrow--more, less or the same. Well, that's easy. I just told you. The total amount never changes. They'd be the same. That's a trickier version of this quiz. Same question, but now I want to know in 10 billion years--more, less or the same. Were you fooled? It's not that tricky. The answer is still the same. Energy is an amazing quantity, but before we can start making calculations using it, we're going to need to learn about something called potential energy. Let's see--we've learned that work and energy have an intimate relationship namely that total work causes a change in kinetic energy and we see the energy is conserved. The total amount never changes. Now, what's really fascinating is that even though the total amount never changes, energy can change forms and that's when potential energy comes in. We can think of this as the potential to do work. Now, I can think of what sort of situations involved potential energy. It's often the case that things that are very frightening have high potential energy. Which of these situations, tell me what you think has more potential energy? A rock teetering in a high cliff versus a low, a 12-volt car battery versus a small AA battery with 1.5 volts, a lit stick of dynamite versus a lit twig, and a drawn bone arrow versus a relax one. Why would be much more frightened to be this guy than him, a 12-volt car battery certainly scares him more than a 1.5, this TNT seems like it's going to do a lot more damage in it's explosion and this was a burns, and this is certainly more intimidating than this. Now, it's not always the case. What's more frightening has greater potential energy. But in each of these situations, potential energy could somehow be converted into kinetic energy. If this rock would have fall, it would gain motions, speed as it fell to the ground. If this dynamite will explode, the shards will go flying off in all directions. If this bow were released, the arrow would fly through the air at high speed. This one is a little harder to see, but if I were to connect the wire between these two terminals, we actually get the motion of what's called electrons through the wire, likewise here but more motion here. This idea of energy transforming between potential energy and kinetic energy and even back again is one that is fundamental to physics, and I hope that by the end of this unit, you'll be seeing everyday occurrences in terms of their energy transformations. Now, all of these cases exhibited a different type of potential energy. This, we will call gravitational potential energy, burning and combustion and explosion is an example of chemical potential energy as is the battery, and a bone arrow is an example of elastic potential energy. In this unit, we're going to focus on making calculations with gravitational potential energy and the problems that we didn't talk about elastic. Keep watching to learn how to use this incredible physics tool. Gravitational potential energy--well, the energy that's somehow stored in gravity. Well, what do I mean by that--well, we talked earlier about lifting a bucket of mass m up to a distance--let's call it h for height. Now, last time we actually assigned some values to m and to h and of course, we used g the acceleration to gravity to calculate this work that we had to do. This time we're going to leave our answer in terms of variables and so what I want to know is how much work do you do and that's you--not how much work does gravity do and not how much is the total work--how much do you do when you lift an object of mass m by a distance of h. I've given you four options. Try and choose the best one. Well, the best answer is mgh--in fact, that's the only answer. Let's see why. Well, let's do a diagram of for example this bucket--there's mass m and weight mg. The force you exert must balance mg, so actually the magnitude of this force that you're pulling on the bucket with must be equal to mg. You'll know that this is the equation which describes work and this case, your force is mg and that's upwards which is also the direction of the Δx, but here Δx becomes h--so that's how we get that answer. In fact this equation doesn't just describe the work required to move bucket of mass m of a height 8 h. This is the potential energy that a bucket has once it's at the site. For potential energy we use the letter u and since there's many type of potential energy, I'm going to use this subscript g to remind us we're dealing with gravitational potential energy. Now one thing I should point out is that this height in this equation seems to be really special. How did the bucket know it's potential energy should be related to its height above this water level? Why it could have been that high or why can the height have been negative? As when the bucket is below somewhere at this point. In fact all of this choices for our reference zero point potential of energy whether it's here or down here or even up here are totally valid. Where we choose our zero point is completely arbitrary, but once we choose our zero point we have to consistent while we're solving a problem and you'll see what I mean by all this when we keep solving more problems and now of course the question is, "Why is this idea useful?" "Why do I care about potential energy?" Well, why don't we solve the problem that you could not have solved 10 minutes ago. This is a quick recap. Let's compare the u from 10 minutes ago to the u of now. The u who now knows about conservation of energy and gravitational potential energy. Well, even 10 minutes ago you could have solved the problem with let's say a ball dropping down in free fall. Ten minutes ago you could have solve that and now could have solve that. You know everything that you need to know to describe this motion. What about an incline plane? Well 10 minutes ago, I think you could have solve this. You know how to break forces down and solve for acceleration and so now I see you could solve that as well. When an incline plane is in a very realistic shape. How often a nature do you see a hill that's perfectly flat at one single angle, not very often. More often what you see in nature is weird strange shape like this one and if you have a block of mass m on a hill like this, could you calculate the speed of the block when it gets to the bottom. I think 10 minutes ago, you may not be able to do that but now you can and how are you going to do that? Well as long as you know the height of the hill, you know that as the block slides down here well, its potential energy would be described by this equation m<i>g<i>h.</i></i> As h goes down, potential energy will go down, but energy is conserved. It can't be created. It can't be destroyed. If potential energy is going down, kinetic energy must be going up and in fact, at the very bottom of this hill once the block has gotten all the way down here h is zero, so all of the potential energy is gone and converted into kinetic energy. We can say that mathematically by saying that the potential energy the block had up here is equal to the kinetic it has down here or mgh=1/2mv² and what do you know the mass tells us. The mass of the block doesn't matter. We can solve this equation for v to get this wonderful answer. The velocity of this block at the bottom will be the √2<i>g<i>h. This answer is remarkable.</i></i> It doesn't depend on the mass and Galileo knew motion shouldn't really depend on mass. It depends on this acceleration due to gravity as we expect it it's higher well the speed is higher. It also depends on the height of the hill. Slide it down a higher hill and the velocity is greater. This makes a lot of sense--now that your so much smarter than you were 10 minutes ago, time to put this skills to use and solve some problems. A great place to try out our skills with this new found tool of energy is on a roller coaster. If you ever look at a physics book, I promised you on the chapter on conservation of energy you will see some problems of roller coasters. The reason is because the energy transformations are very easy to see. Up here, we have Isaac, Newton, and Galileo let's say and their cart isn't moving yet, but they have a lot of potential energy because they're up high. As they go down that would be converted to kinetic energy. Start going up some of the kinetic energy is converted back to potential and so on as they go across the track. Using what you know about the conservation of energy, could you tell me, assuming that there is no friction on this track, we'll get to friction later in this unit, "What's the fastest speed that this roller coaster will reach?", and we'll call thet Vmax. Enter your answer here in m/s. Well, let's see how do we solve this, first I want to identify where is that roller coaster will be going the fastest and the answer is when it's down here. This is the lowest point in the roller coaster and therefore the point with the lowest potential energy, which means the high is kinetic energy and let's see, down here, what kind of energy it does have. It has kinetic energy. I know it's going to be moving down here and it didn't have a little bit of potential energy if I'm using the ground as my reference point for zero, so let's see. Energy is conserved means energy appear equals energy down here. Roller coaster starts at rest, which means it starts with only potential energy. I think we're going to call this h₁ to distinguish it from this h over here. By the time it gets to the bottom, it still has a little bit of potential energy and it has kinetic. We know motion doesn't depend on mass and luckily the mass is cancelled out. I can do a little bit of massaging of this equation to get into this form for v² and to solve for velocity, I just take the square root and look at that. All that matters, the only way that height comes into this equation is through the change in height, h₁-h₂,. This is really pointing out the fact that we can choose our zero point anywhere and all that matters is the change in height. Well let's plug in our numbers, when I do this I get a very nice number, I get the √900 which is exactly 30 m/s. Now I confess, I've been oversimplifying it because we haven't talked about friction. Now even though energy can never ever be created or destroyed, friction in a way removes energy from a system. Now what do I mean by that. Well before we ??? let's say a ball dropping from some height. Well, we can think of this as energy converting from gravitational potential to a kinetic energy as it moved in. All of the gravitational I want to connect, but in reality that's not what happens. All of the gravitational potential energy does not get convert to kinetic energy. How did friction do this? How does it remove energy if energy can't be created or destroyed? Well before when we look at, let's say a block sliding down a plane. We visualized this as gravitational potential energy getting converted to kinetic energy as the block moved down, but let's think about that. As this blocks slides down, it's rubbing against this plane. Go ahead and rub your hands together for a second and do it really hard. They get really hot. In fact, friction creates heat. This heat is another form of energy. If we start with a certain amount of gravitational potential energy, some of it gets converted to useful kinetic energy, but some gets lost as heat. The energy is still there, it's just that we can't really use it anymore. It's lost as heat to the atmosphere. Now depending on the material of this plane or other situational factors, the fraction of this energy that gets converted to heat can change, maybe a lot of this energy gets converted to heat maybe almost none of it. So let's consider these three cases. In the first case, we have an object falling and let's say it's falling to what's called vacuum so there's no air, it's just falling through empty space Another example of object sliding down this rough jagged surface. Another we have an object sliding down a relatively smooth surface. What I want to know is, which of this diagrams corresponds to which of this pictures. So in this diagram all of the potential energy is getting converted to kinetic energy and here most of it is getting converted to heat, but in here only a small portion gets converted to heat. Enter the appropriate number into the appropriate box. Well, let's see. Number 3 seems pretty straightforward. When will we not lose any energy to friction? Well, if we drop something through a vacuum where there's no air, nothing to collide with--no energy is lost to friction. This very rarely happens. When is the most energy lost to friction. Well, on a rough surface, a lot of energy gets lost to friction. That leaves a smooth surface in which--yes, some energy does get lost to heat but not all the time. These diagrams are kind of giving me a hint as to how we might incorporate energy lost to heat into our calculations involving conservation of energy. So actually what I want to know is which of these equations best relates the final energy, the initial energy, and the energy lost. So for example by final energy, I mean final useful energy--may be kinetic energy. Initial energy would be this initial potential energy, and energy lost-- because remember energy is never really destroyed--would be this energy lost to heat. Which of these equations describe the final energy? Well, let's see. Where does this final energy come from? Let's look at this one for an example. Well, this total energy, the initial energy, minus whatever was left to heat. This answer. Now, we're almost ready to tell the question that we started this unit with--how to keep the Netherlands dry. Let's do one process an example before we jump in. For this example--let's say you've dump 2 kg of water down a 12 m hill and it loses 40 J of energy to friction. How fast is that water going at the bottom of the hill? And the answer here in meters per second. The initial energy it has is entirely the potential energy, N which would be 2 kg, g which will of course be 10 or 9.8 but I'm using 10, and h which is 12 m. Now the initial energy isn't all going to be converted to kinetic energy. We're going to lose some of it--we're going to subtract some of it to friction. We're going to subtract 40 J in fact, and that quantity will be converted to kinetic energy. Now we can start plugging in--when I do the algebra out, I get an answer of 14 m/s. One more concept that we're going to need is the idea of power. This is a word you've heard a lot like force or energy, but now, let's put a real definition to it. Power measures how quickly work can be done! And what I mean by that is, let's say if two people and there's a pile of rocks. Let's say, this first person is more powerful than the second person. Even though, if you give them bought a sufficient amount of time, they can move all these rocks up to, let's say, this basket here. If person 1 is more powerful, they'll do it faster. And so the equation for power is work divided by how long it takes to do that work, we call it Δt. Let's say this first person can lift one of these rocks, one of these 2 kg rock, a height of 15 m in 30 secs, what is their power? The units of a power are watts. Watt is just another term for joules per second. Enter your answer here. Well, power is work over the change in time. How much work is done? Well, look at the rock. Well, the force we exert has to balance (mg), 2 kg<i>10 is 20 N and the distance is 15 m.</i> And since this is parallel to this displacement or this Δx, we can just multiply them. That means, if the work is equal to 20 times 15. We know the time is equal to 30 secs and the calculated power, we just do work divided by the change in time, 300/30, gives me a power of 10 watts. Not too bad. Now, let's solve our problem. We want to keep the Netherlands dry, which means that when water comes into the area that's supposed to be land, we need to get it out. Now, there's a lot of factors that affect how quickly water can enter here. What I want to know is, if I can know how quickly water is entering this area over here, how many windmills will I need to pump it back out? And that is a matter of figuring out exactly how much one windmill can do? Each of these windmills has access to about 1000 W of wind power. Of that 1000 W, a lot of it is lost to friction. In fact, 400 W is lost as this rotates as the water sloshes along in here, There's many sources of friction here. We said the average dike is about 6 m high. I want to know how much water can each of these windmills move from down here all the say up to here in 1 day? This is a tricky problem but try your best and enter your answer here in kilograms. Remember, you can always go to the forums if you need help. Well, here's how I solved it--this windmill has access to 1000 W of power, but it loses 400 W, so that means the usable amount of power is the difference, 600 W. Well, power is work over time and what's our time going to be if we're looking for how many kilograms of water we're going to move. Our time is going to be one day and when you do it at the unit conversion, you find that one day is equal to 86,400 seconds. We can solve this equation for the total work this windmill can do, multiplying both sides by 86,400 and we get a rather huge number of 51,840,000 joules. So this is the work that can be done in a single day and this work is just equal to the mass of water times (g) times (h) because we've already shown that when we lift an object, and it doesn't matter if that object is a stone or water by a height (h), this is the work that we have to do. Well, we know (g) and we know (h), if we solve this equation for (m), we find that our windmill can move a total of 864,000 kg of water per day. Now that we know this number, deciding on how many windmills to build, just depends on figuring out how quickly water is leaking in. Now, we've made some assumptions here and these are assumptions that I encourage you to talk about in the forums, but for now, I'd like to say, congratulations! Wow! Congratulations! In this unit we've learned a powerful new predictive tool. The conservation of energy. We can learn about work and power. I can answer your problems like the problem of keeping the Netherlands dry in terms of their energy requirements. Next time, we're going to see how the conservation of energy will help us create incredible timekeeping devices that will let us answer the question-- how can we find our ships at sea. Now, before we jump in to actually solving some problems, we're going to do the experiment ourselves. We're going to calculate as a class the circumference of the earth. Now, we're going to do this by having every single student and myself take some data. And then, we're going to aggregate that data in the next unit and come to some consensus about what the circumference of the earth is. There will be errors and we'll talk about that. This will be a big data set so we'll have to learn some skills about how to handle that, but we'll figure that all out in the next unit, but for now we just need to collect the data. In order to this, what you're going to need is a string or a stick. For example, in the beginning I used earlier, I used a string with a weight attached to it, because the string need to be completely straight. You can also use the edge of a building as long as you know it's vertical, and you can measure its height, or anything else that's straight and vertical. You're going to need a measuring device, maybe a meter stick or tape measure or something like that. Again, the units aren't going to matter because they cancel out when we compute ratios. Next, you're going to need a sunny day, and I understand this could be tricky, especially if you live in a region where it's not so sunny out. Once you have a sunny day, you're going need to do is experiment as close to solar noon on a flat surface as you possibly can. Now, what's solar noon? Solar noon is when the sun is highest in the sky and it's not necessarily-- in fact, it generally doesn't occur at 12 o'clock. There's a link below this video where you can figure out what solar noon is in your location, and I hope this isn't too much of an inconvenience for you, but I think this experiment can be done quite quickly, and I think it will be interesting to see the data that the class collects. I hope you participate in this. Of course, you don't have to participate but it'd be great if you did. Now, once you have everything you need, it's solar noon in your location, you have a sunny day, and a flat surface, you have your measuring device, your stick or a string, the procedure is basically what you saw in the previous video. Make sure the string/stick is vertical. Measure the length of whatever object you're using. In the case of the experiment I did that was the string with the mass on it. Next, we're going to measure the length of the shadow and be sure to record both of these. Then you're going to enter the data here. Now, entering data, well, what data do we need to enter? We're going to be doing this experiment a little different than Eratosthenes, because I don't want you to have to use a camel to measure distances between nearby cities. Instead, what we're going to do is you're going to enter your object length and just enter a number, you don't need to enter any units because, like we said, they don't matter. Shadow length, enter that. Enter your true latitude. This is the actual latitude of where you do the experiment and you can find this in the link below. Next, your going to have to enter the month and the day. Now, why do we need to do that? Think about that for a second. Well ideally, you're doing this experiment on the summer solstice, which occurs around June 21st or 22nd--that's the longest day of the year in the northern hemisphere. Unfortunately, by the time this class comes out, it's going to be too late to actually get the summer solstice. But, it's still right in the middle of summer for the northern hemisphere and it's pretty close to the solstice--so let's set to introduce a small correction to the data, and that's something we'll talk about in the next unit. But to introduce that correction, we are going to need to know both the month in which you collect the data so that would be June or July and you can enter June as the number 6, and July as the number 7--so month will either be 6 or 7. And then, you can enter the day--so if you do this on July 1st, you'll enter 7 in the month field and 1 in the day field--go ahead, get your data. I am very excited to see what we come up as a class. This question uses the Banco di Sicilia in Syracuse, Italy. Now, this building has a height of 18 m. When we measured the length of the shadow, we found that it is equal to 10 m. Now, I want to know, how high is the sun? What I mean by that is if we look at the right triangle formed by the edge of the building, the edge of the shadow, and the imaginary line here, what is this angle? I'm going to call this angle β, because we've been using α too much. Enter your answer here in degrees, and you can answer to 1 decimal place. The answer is 60.9 degrees. We get that by saying, well, the opposite and the adjacent side, so we know that the tan β is equal to opposite over adjacent--18/10. But we want to know what β is itself. We actually have to look at the arctangent of 18/10. If we look at the arctangent of 18/10, we get 60.9 degrees. This question involves the Bay of Syracuse. Now, Syracuse is on the water. It is on an island, after all. It has a bay that looks somewhat like this, but please don't go to Google maps to confirm, because this is not a great drawing. On this bay, this bay has a mouth here, and on this northern point here there is a lighthouse, which I've drawn over here. I want to determine a way to figure out the width of the mouth of this bay using trigonometry. Let's see what we can do. We can measure the height of the lighthouse or we could ask the lighthouse keeper. The height of this lighthouse is 25 meters. I can position myself on the other shore down here, get real low to the ground and use a device like a sextant or a quadrant, which is just a device that lets you measure angle. I can measure what this angle is right here. It turns out this angle is 1.30 degrees. Now, I think you have the ability to tell me, given this information, this angle, and this height what is the width of the Bay of Syracuse. That is this distance? You can enter your answer here and do it in meters. Well, let's see. I have a right triangle here. I need to know now how can I figure out what this width is? Well, the side I know is the opposite side. The side I want to know is this one here--the width. Now, that's the adjacent side to this angle. It's not the hypotenuse. Okay, so which trig function relates opposite and adjacent? Well, that's the tangent. So, I'm going to be using the tangent of this angle. I'm going to calculate that, because I know that it has to equal the opposite side over the adjacent side, which is the width. Okay, not so bad. Now I have to solve this for width, which means I have to bring this over here and put this guy down there, which gives me width equals 25 m/tan(1.3°). When I plug that in, I like to use Google's calculator, I get a length of 1100 meters. Now, this is really an incredible tool. We use basic trigonometry to make a real calculation. This is truly how you could have calculated the width of the mouth of the bay of Syracuse. Good work. We'd calculated the circumference of the earth. That's a huge accomplishment but now let's move on. Let's calculate the size of the moon. Here I've drawn a little diagram of what's going on with the earth, the moon, and the sun. Now keep in mind that this is not the scale at all. In fact the sun should be way, way, way bigger and way, way, way farther off the screen. In fact if I drew this right, these rays would all be more or less completely parallel. The idea behind measuring the size of the moon is we can exploit the fact that lunar eclipses occur. Now, what's a lunar eclipse? Well, here's the sun and here are few of its rays which I've traced. You can see that if you were in your spaceship flying around over here or here or there, you'd would be illuminated, you would be in the sun's rays and everything would be bright and wonderful. As soon as you got behind the earth, however, things get dark. You're in the earth's shadow. The same things happens to the moon. What we want to do is figure out how big is the moon compared to the earth since we know the size of the earth already. Can we fit one, two, three moons in one earth shadow? If that were the case, then the moon would be one-third the size of the earth or is it two moons in the earth shadow or seven or 12--I don't know, let's figure that out. How are we going to answer this question, "How many moons fit in the earths shadow?" All we're going to do is time how long the moon spins in the earth's shadow, how long we can't see it for during a total lunar eclipse. The longer time it spins, the smaller the moon is compared to the earth. Once we know how much time the moon spins in the earth shadow, I can convert that into moon widths, let's call it. What I mean by a moon width? I mean this distance here. That's one moon width. We have to know how long does it take the moon to move from here over to here, to move one moon width in its orbit. We can answer that by noting the fact that the moon has an angular size in the sky of about half a degree. What do I mean by that? If you're standing on earth and if you first look at the top of the moon then look at the bottom of the moon, this angle here is 0.5 degrees. We also know that it takes 28 days for one complete orbit. In 28 days, it's gone 360 degrees so that means it's gone 720 moon widths since each width is only a half a degree and 720 is twice 360 which means 28 days per 720 moon widths, and if we do some unit conversion that works out to be 0.93 hours for one moon width. Every 0.93 hours, the moon has moved one width over. So it's gone from here to here or from here to here, etc. Now, I'm just going to give you the data. I'm going to tell you what we can observe, and you're going to have to do some thinking and probably some unit conversion to answer this question. The observed fact is the following. The moon spins 205 minutes in eclipse and what do I mean for the moon to be in eclipse? Well, we start the eclipse timer when the moon is completely in the earth shadow and end it just as it's leaving the earth shadow. Okay, we know the moon takes 0.93 hours to go one moon width and we know it spins 205 minutes in eclipse and we know earth's circumference is equal to 40,000 kilometers. Now I think you can answer the question--now how many moons fits in the earth shadow? Do it one step better,"What is the circumference of the moon?" Enter you're answer here in kilometers. To solve this the first thing I want to know is how many moons can fit into the earth's shadow? How many moons widths are there associated with this time spent in eclipse. Well, 205 minutes is 3.42 hours. Now, I have this conversion factor here, which relates hours to moon widths, so why don't I use that? 3.42 hours times--well, now I want to invert this, because I want the hours to cancel out. This guys has got to go downstairs. Times 1 moon width per 0.93 hours. Hours cancels. Sorry. This should have been a 2. This equals 3.68 moon widths. Since we said the shadow was the same size as the earth, this is equal to one earth width. Let's divide this by 3.68, because I want to know what 1 moon width is. I find it's one earth width divided by 3.68. The moon is 3.68 times smaller than the earth. I don't actually want width. I want circumference. Let's go over here and say the moon's circumference, MC, is equal to, well, 1 earth's circumference divided by 3.68. That's going to be 40,000 km--that's the earth's circumference-- divided by 3.68, and the circumference of the moon is about 10,900 km. Great work. This is really amazing. You've calculated the circumference of the earth and the circumference of the moon. You've already calculated the circumference of the earth. You've hopefully calculated the circumference of the moon in the previous question. I really mean hopefully, because now I'm going to tell you what it is, because we need that number to calculate the distance to the moon. In the last problem, we talked about the angular size of the moon. We said that the moon has an angular size of half a degree. Now, we know the circumference of the moon. We know the circumference of the moon, and you may or may not know the formula for the circumference. The circumference of any circle is equal to π times its diameter. The diameter is this distance from one end to the other end. Using this knowledge and the half a degree angular size of the moon, you should actually be able to calculate this distance--the distance to the moon. Now, this isn't exactly a right triangle, but what we can do, because we're so, so tricky, is approximate it as one. Half a degree is so small that these angles are both just about 90 degrees. When you're doing this problem pretend this is a 90 degree angle, and let's calculate this distance to the moon. We'll call it L. I want you to tell me L in kilometers based on this data. Well, let's see. The circumference is 10,900, and that must be π d. That means that the diameter is 10,900/π, which is about 3.14. This gives me a diameter of the moon of about 3,470 km. Now, to calculate this length--well, this is something you've done plenty of. This is a simple tree problem. We have a right triangle, we have the opposite side, and we want the adjacent side. In fact, we know that the tangent of this angle--the tangent of this is 0.5 degrees-- has to equal the opposite side d, which is 3,470, over the side we want to calculate--L. Now we can massage this equation a little bit, bring L up and tangent down and plug this into our calculator, and we get an answer of 398,000 km. This is really amazing what we've done. I mean, you've learned a little bit of trig and geometry and from that you've calculated the size of the earth, the size of the moon, and the distance between the earth and the moon. That's really impressive. All right! We've done so much. We've calculated the size of the earth and the moon and the distance from the earth to the moon. We might as well figure out the distance to the sun as well, right. Let's look at a picture. Here's the earth. Here's the moon. Over here, we have the sun. Now, let me say again this is not to scale. The sun should be much larger and much farther away than depicted here. The moon should be farther away as well. Now, the picture I've drawn here is a very special alignment of the earth, moon and sun. This is what's called a half moon--the reason why is the sun is striking the moon and based on this geometry, you can only strike this side of the moon. Well, it's always only striking half of the moon. What makes this so special? Well, what's special is from earth, if we look up, we just see everything on this side of this blue line, everything below this blue line, and as you can see, everything to the left of this dividing line is in the light and everything on the other side to the right is not, so to us this actually appears like a half moon. Even though the moon is always only half illuminated, this is the one special geometry where we only see half of the visible side illuminated to us. We've got this special geometry that happens about twice a month. What makes it special? You can maybe guess that we can draw a right triangle between the earth, the sun and the moon. In the previous problem, you calculated this distance, and I'm not going to tell you exactly what we calculated but let's say it's very close to 400,000 km. That's the distance from the earth to the moon. Now, we can actually measure this angle--you've probably seen those strange days where the sun and the moon are both in the sky. I know that seems weird--the moon is supposed to be out at night, sun in the day but hey it happens like this sometimes. When it does happen like this and it happens to be a half moon, we can measure this angle and then, well, I think you see where we're going--you can measure this distance l. This actually turns out to be a really, really large angle--so this angle which we'll call alpha. Alpha is actually equal to 89.853 degrees--so given this number and this distance between the earth and the moon, can you tell me what this l is--the distance between the sun and the earth. Give your answer in kilometers. Well, let's see. Again, we have our right triangle, which we love so much. We have an adjacent side to our angle and a hypotenuse. Adjacent and hypotenuse SOH-CAH-TOA--CAH. Cosine and adjacent over hypotenuse. Okay, the cosine of that angle α is equal to the adjacent side, 400,000, over this L. Okay. Well, let's solve for L. We find that L = 400,000 divided by the cosine α, which we said was 89.853 degrees. This gives an answer of about 156,000,000 km. Boy, that's a lot of zeros. Take a second to pat yourself on the back. You can now calculate astronomical sizes and distances--the sun, the earth, the moon, the distance from the earth to the sun and the earth to the moon. These are all things that you now know how to calculate. That's very impressive. When we were calculating the circumference of the earth, our calculation was based entirely on the assumption that the sun's rays struck Alexandria and Syene parallel. Let's examine just how true or how good that assumption was. Now, the drawing I've drawn here is totally out of scale. I've drawn the earth huge and only a section of it. I've drawn the sun absurdly tiny and much, much too close to earth. For the sake of the geometry, this picture will work. Now, we know that the distance from the earth to the sun is about 150,000,000 km. Eratosthenes knew that the distance from Syene to Alexandria. This distance was about 5000 stadia. Remember 1 stadion is equal to about 185 meters. I want to know what's this angle. The reason why I want to know what this angle is is because this angle somehow quantifies how parallel these lines are. If they're truly parallel, this angle would be zero degrees. This line would be coming in at the exact same orientation as this line. Any deviation from 0 represents some error, and we want to make sure that if it does deviate from zero that it's still quite a small number. For this problem, you're going to want to assume that this is a right triangle, even though it doesn't quite look like one. If we drew this more to scale, you would see that it truly is very close to being a right triangle. So, we can still use our trigonometry. Using the fact that this distance is 150 million km, which you could say is the length of this leg here, if you like, or that leg, since these are equal. You know this length is 5000 stadia. Can you tell me what's this angle? We'll call this angle α. Give your answer in degrees. For this problem, I actually want you to round to 5 decimal places. Well, to solve this, we convert 5000 stadia using our normal method. We convert it to 925 km. Then we look at tangent of this angle, because this would be the opposite side, and this would be the adjacent side. Actually, what's interesting is we could also have used the sine for this problem instead of the tangent. The reason being that for very, very small angles sine and tangent give you identical answers. So, we say that the tangent of α--well, that must be the opposite over the adjacent. Tangent always is. 925--opposite, over adjacent--150 million. That's quite a large number. Ah! But that's right. I don't know α. So, I actually need to do the arctangent of this number. When I do the arctangent of 920/150,000,000, I find that α is 0.00035 degrees. That is a very, very small angle, so these rays really are parallel. This problem takes place in Florence, Italy. The Duomo is a famous cathedral in Florence, Italy. In this problem you are going to calculate the height of the Duomo. You'll calculate this height based on these dimensions, which I've given you here, as well as the fact that at a certain time of day the sun strikes just right, so that one of the sun's rays, which just grazes the tip of the spire here will also just graze the corner of this part of the building and land right into this man's eye. Use these dimensions, use this fact about the sun's ray, and tell me the height of the Duomo. Enter your height here in meters, and remember the height is the full distance from this tip all the way down to the bottom. To solve this problem, the first thing I did was say, okay, well, it looks like this is directly in the middle of this building--this spire. I can draw some imaginary line, making this distance 25 m. Now, you could have used trigonometry to solve this question. But there was a trick. You could have solved it in a slightly easier way by using similar triangles. To use the similar triangle method, we notice that this triangle in purple is similar to this triangle in green. Now, what are the dimensions of this green triangle? Well, at 60 m along the base from here, and 15 meters here-- simply because this height is 60, and we subtract the 45. What about the purple triangle? Well, the base is 180 m--60 + 35 + 60 plus this 25. The height is unknown. This is what we're solving for. I'm going to erase our man to give ourselves some room. We can set up a ratio. The ratio of this side to that side must be the same as x to 180. We multiply both sides by 180 to solve for x. When we do out the arithmetic, we find x = 45 m, but we also have to add in the original 45 m to get the full height of the Duomo. The answer is that the height of the Duomo is 90 m. Very good work. The first question involves a piece of technology that Galileo didn't have. A bicycle. Now the bicycle is a wonderful machine. And let's say you can ride here at a maximum speed of 12 m/s with an acceleration of 3 m/s². So this means that if you start from rest, you can increase to a maximum speed of 12 at this rate. Once you get to 12, you can't accelerate any more. You could represent this graphically by plotting the velocity versus time. At time 0, your bicycle is at rest. After 1 second your speed is increased by 3 m/s. And in fact, you continue accelerating for the first 4 seconds until you reach your maximum speed. After that, your speed remains constant. What I want to know is how long will it take you to bike 96 m if you start from rest? And for this problem, you might want to break it up into two sections, the part where you're accelerating and the part where you're moving at constant speed. To solve this problem, I broke it up into two parts. Let's think of this section where we're accelerating first then calculate how far we go. Well, this is the equation I want to use and so I know I'm looking for Δx. And I know the initial velocity is 0, and the time is 4 s for this first part of the question, and the acceleration will be 3. When I carry out this math, I find that I covered a distance of 24 m in the first 4 s. But I want to go 96 m, so I still have 72 m left to go at a constant speed of 12 m/s. Well, I can use the same exact equation, but now I know Δx and not the time. So notice that now I've used an initial velocity of 12. Even though my first problem started with an initial velocity of 0, I've broken it up. So the second smaller subproblem has an initial velocity of 12 and no acceleration. So this term goes to 0. I can solve this and find that t = 6 s. And I have to add that to my original 4 s, so it takes me 10 s to complete this race. The next part of this question involves the humiliation that a competitive cyclist feels when they're passed by an ambitious runner. So let's say we have a cyclist and he is just hanging out standing by his bicycle. And this runner over here, well, she's running along at a velocity of 6 m/s. The instant she passes the cyclist, well of course he is upset that he got passed by a runner. Runners aren't supposed to be faster than bicyclists. So he hops on his bike and starts accelerating. And just like in the last problem, he can accelerate at 3 m/s² up to a maximum velocity of 12 m/s. The runner is going at 6. How long will it take the bicyclist to catch the runner? The tricky thing about this problem is that I don't know if I need to break it into two parts or not. Will the bicyclist catch up with the runner in the first 4 s? Or will it take more than that? I just don't know. But what I can do is figure out how far the bicyclist and how far the runner will go in those first 4 s. And if the bicyclist's distance is greater than or equal to the runner's, I know he's caught up. And then I can just worry about this being a one part problem. So let's see. How far will the bicyclist go in 4 s? This is the same calculation we did in the first problem, and it's 24 m. And I can use the same equation to describe the runner's motion with an acceleration of 0 and an initial velocity of 6, the runner goes 24 m. She's gone just as far as the bicyclist has, so it turns out by luck that after 4 s the bicyclist catches up with the runner. Note that both the runner and the cyclist have gone 24 m in the first 4 s. It's interesting to notice that this 24 m is actually equal to the area underneath this triangle and also the area underneath this rectangle. This isn't a coincidence but rather an important physical fact. If you've ever taken a calculus class or plan to take one in the future, you can learn more about why this exciting phenomenon happens. Aircraft carriers are pretty impressive ships. When a plane is taking off, it first needs to reach what we can call takeoff velocity. If the plane is going any slower than this velocity, it won't be able to generate enough lift to actually get off the ground. Now an aircraft carrier's space is very limited. So there's not a lot of time or distance to reach this velocity. So these ships have catapults that actually accelerate the plane very rapidly. What I want to know is if you have a plane with a takeoff velocity of 250 km/hr on an aircraft carrier whose length is 80 m, what is the minimum acceleration you need? And keep in mind that's in m/s² and here we have km/hr. What's the minimum acceleration you'll need to prevent your plane from falling into the ocean? Keep in mind that this takeoff velocity is given in km/hr, but the answer should be in m/s². The first thing I'm going to do is convert to m/s. If I use these conversion factors, I find that all my units—km, hr, and min—cancel leaving me with m/s, so the velocity that my plane needs to be moving if it's going to take off is 69.4 m/s. So this question is asking for acceleration. We know initial velocity, final velocity, and the distance we have to accelerate. Time is not really used in this question, so we use this equation. Now there's a few ways to solve this. What I'd like to do is first solve for a. And then plug in everything I know since a is what I'm looking for. And this is the equation I get so now I can plug in, and I get an answer of 30.1 m/s². Note that 30 is three times bigger than 10. And 10 is that special number, which we call g and that's the acceleration of objects in free fall fields. Another way of phrasing this acceleration of 30 is saying it's equal to 3 g. If Galileo did drop objects off the Leaning Tower of Pisa, he probably eventually got pretty bored of just dropping them. So let's say 1 day he decided to toss one up at 20 m/s. I just want to know how long will the ball stay in the air. And this is another problem that might be best broken up into two parts. The upward trip and the downward trip. But it's up to you. Enter your answer here. Well, we don't have to break this problem into two parts, but I'm going to. I prefer to do it that way. So let's see how long it takes the ball to reach the top of it's trajectory. I'm going to use this equation and I know at the top of the trajectory the final velocity is zero where the initial velocity is up at 20 m/s and the acceleration is negative. Remember if we've chosen V₀ to be positive and that's upwards, acceleration which is downwards must be negative. So that's time of 2s to go upwards and look at the top of its trajectory it's for that instant not moving and it has to fall all the way down to the ground. But how far does it have to fall when not just the 57 m from the top of the tower to the ground also whatever distance it's gained on its trip upwards. Let's calculate that--to make this extra distance calculation, I'm going to use this equation, and it turns out that it has gone an extra distance of 20 m and notice that I've used the time 2 because that's what we just calculated. With this extra distance of 20 m added to this 57 m, we have a total fall distance of 77 m, and this is the tool for the job there to calculate how much time it's going to take and the time to fall down is 3.9 seconds. And noticed than in solving this equation I've called the acceleration positive again and that's because I've called Δx positive. I could have called Δy negative since it is moving downwards, but when possible I like to just work with positive numbers, but this is totally a matter of preference. So we have 3.9 seconds plus our original 2 gives us a total of 5.9 seconds that the ball will stay in the air--good work. There's a famous poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow called, "The Arrow and the Song." And it begins, "I shot an arrow into the air. It fell to earth, I knew not where." Well, it's a very nice poem, but from a physics point of view it sort of defeat us. Using our new physics knowledge, I think we can make a slight revision to this poem. If I were Longfellow's editor, I would suggest a slightly different second line. Maybe it fell to earth, I can predict exactly where by first calculating horizontal and vertical components of velocity and then utilizing the equations of motion. Okay, maybe his flow is a little better, but mine is better from a physics point of view. For this two dimensional motion problem, we're just going to start simply. Can you tell me for an initial velocity so the arrow was fired at 100 m/s at an angle of 30° to the ground, can you use your knowledge of trigonometry from unit one to tell me the x and y components of the initial velocity? Well, let's see. I want to make this triangle bigger. Well, V₀y--it's opposite the 30° angle. And since I know the hypotenuse, I can say that the sine of this angle must be equal to the opposite over the hypotenuse V₀y/100 and if I plugged this into a calculator or a search engine, I find a result of 50 m/s. I can assimilate thinking to solve the V₀x, and when I do, I have an answer of 86.6 m/s. Good work. This problem involves staying safe on a ship. Now let me explain the scenario to you. The bad guys have taken over the pier, as we can tell by the flag saying "bad guys." They have a cannon which they can adjust to any angle they want between zero and 180°, and it can fire cannonballs with the velocity of 56 m/s. Next to the cannon, there's this flagpole and it has a known height of 30 m. Now let's say we want to keep an eye on the bad guys and make sure we know what they're up to, but we don't want to get to within range of their cannon. We don't want to be able to be shot by this cannon. It is not fun. So what do we need to do? Well first, we need to calculate the range of the cannon to figure out how far this thing can shoot and as a hint ranges optimized from this angle is equal to 45°, but what then? What do we do after we've calculated the range of the cannon? Well, we need keep our distance, but how do we do that? How do we know our distance? Well, lucky enough there is this flagpole. If we look from the top of this flagpole to the bottom, we can measure this angle β, and as long as β is pretty small, let's say it's less than 10°, these are going to be very close to right angles and we can do some trigonometry. Now clearly if the boat is really close to the shore, this flag pole will look very big. They would be large to our observer, and if the boat is very far away they would be small. The flagpole will look very small from faraway. I want to know at what value of β can a cannon reach our ship. Now this is a really tricky question. It involves a pretty complicated 2-dimensional motion problem as well as some trigonometry that we learned in the first unit. If you can put these all together and get the correct answer, I'll be very impressed. Well the answer is about 5.5° and let's see how we calculate that. Well first, we need to calculate the range of the cannon. How do we do that? Let's look at our initial velocity vector. The cannon fires at the speed of 56 m/s, an angle of 45° because that optimizes the range. Now we want to break this into components--V₀x and V₀y. We can do some trigonometry to show that the x and y components are both equal to 39.6 m/s. If I'm going to know how far this cannonball is going to go, I should probably know how long it's going to spend in the air. Let's use the y component velocity to do that. Looking at the trajectory of this ball, I want to first find out how long it takes to get to the very top that's when the vertical component of velocity would be equal to zero. Using this equation and plugging in what we know, and remember in this case acceleration is downward so negative, we find it takes 3.96 seconds to get to the top of the trajectory, which means it would take another 3.96 to get down which results in a total time of 7.92 seconds. Now we known the x direction, speed isn't going to be changing. There is no acceleration in the x direction. So if I look at this equation, this term goes to 0 and we're left with this. So what's the range of the cannon, how far can it reach Δx or it's just the x component of velocity 39.6 times the time, which gives us 314 m. If you got this far, good work. We're almost towards the end. Now we just need to convert this somehow into an angular size. Well looking at this angle β, we know this flagpole has a height of 30 m and in fact, it looks like we know the opposite and the adjacent sides. So we can write the tangent of β is 30/314. If I ask Google what the arctan of 30/314, in degrees because remember that's how we go from ratios to angles, it gives me a value of 5.5°--good work! You wake up on a strange heavenly body. You don't know where you are. Luckily, you have on hand the following information: You also have a knowledge of physics and plenty of rocks. Your task is to find out where you are. Are you on earth, Mars, Pluto, Jupiter, or the moon? Now, we see that you've plenty of rocks and the reason why this useful is because you happen to know the fact about yourself. You happen to know that on earth, the farthest you can throw a rock is 40 m. Not bad. So you device a scheme, you decide to compare your abilities on earth to your abilities on this new unknown location. You find in this new unknown location, you can throw 250 m. This is the only thing I'll tell you. From here you're on your own. Can you tell me which planet you're on? And yes I know, the moon isn't really a planet and some people will try to tell you Pluto wasn't either but don't listen to them. If you're having trouble with this one, because I know this is a very tricky problem, you can go into the forums and look for some help. The answer is that you're on the moon. Now there are many ways you can solve this question, but the one that I think is the most fun and probably the most useful is figuring out how range, the distance you can throw an object, scales with the acceleration on the planet. What do I mean by that? I mean figuring out its proportionality. Is the range proportional to the acceleration in the planet? Is it proportional to the square? Is it proportional to something else? Let's see if we can find that out. So this has become a question of, "How does range scale with acceleration?" The reason why we're looking at proportionality sorts of our units is because these two numbers the range on earth and the range on this unknown planet how far we can throw these rocks. So we also know the ratio and ratios are used whenever we have this proportionality sorts of our units. What we already shown from the previous problem that the optimal range occurs at 45° So if we can set at an initial velocity of this zero--these are the horizontal and vertical components. Well, when we're calculating range the first thing we want to know is how much time does the object spent in the air. And we think of measuring to the top of the trajectory and then multiplying by two. Have we find the time it takes to get to the top? What we used is equation, we plugged in our known values and solve for t. And I noticed I have been using numbers, I have been keeping everything in terms of variables except for this 45°. This could be an intimidating tactic to use when you're first solving physics problems. Often you tend to want to plug everything in, but actually you could often get more interesting results if you leave the variables in place and don't plug until the very, very end. Anyways, this is the time to the top of the trajectory but we know the full time is twice that so I'll just put a 2 here. Once we know the time, how do we find the range? We'll we used this equation and now I've plugged in for the initial velocity the initial x velocity V₀ cosine of 45. I've multiplied by the time that we just calculated because remember in the x direction the acceleration is always zero. Okay, let's simplify--well, I've multiplied the V₀ together to get this V₀² and actually if I carry out cosine of 45 times 945, I find it's just equal to one half. This part the one half cancelled with the 2, I've find that my maximum range is equal to my initial V²/a. Now, I do not really care about V₀². I want to know how range scales with a and it turns out well it's proportional to 1/a or R is proportional to a⁻¹. Well so what, how do I use that--just like we did early in the unit, we found out using a lot of ratio and the ratio of the range on earth to the range of this unknown planet is going to be equal to the ratios of the accelerations taken to the -1 power. A -1 power just means flip what you have inside. I can solve this for the unknown acceleration and I get this equation. The acceleration on our unknown planet is equal to the ratios of the ranges times the acceleration on earth. When I found what we know, I find that the acceleration on our unknown planet must be 1.6 m/s², which is exactly the acceleration on the moon and we've figured out where we are. Amazing work--there were other ways to solve this--equally valid-- but this is one tool that you should try to familiarize yourself with. In this question, you're going to use dimensional analysis, which is a tool we mentioned briefly in the unit, to do some basic analysis of two fairly advanced physics equations. Here we have E=mc², one of Einstein's famous equations which relates mass and energy. Energy isn't something we've talked about in class yet but with dimensional analysis you don't need to know what energy is to be able to quantify its units and the way we did dimensional analysis was we realized we can write the unit of just about any physical quantity in terms of mass, length, and time. So mass rates some power, lengths to some power, and time to some power. So using your knowledge that m is the unit of mass and c is the unit of velocity or speed you should be able to figure out what the units of energy are even if you do not know what it is yet. That would be step one, but I really want you to do and what I want you to solve for this problem I want you tell me the units of this number ħ, an ħ is a number that shows up in quantum mechanics, which is a fascinating field of physics all the time. So even if you have no idea what some of these symbols mean, there's actually still a lot you could learn about this equation. Let's take a look at this term for example. Well there is a lot going on in this term but a lot of it does not affect the actual units of what's happening. So for example, I don't have to pay attention to this guy at all. This is the Greek letter Ψ Zand it's dimensionless, so we can ignore it. This d are just some instructions of some math to do so you don't have to pay attention to those either. The negative sign doesn't really matter and the 2 doesn't matter either. So what we've left with is this. This is the relevant part to this equation unit wise. Well, we have ħ²--we'll for something with units of mass times x which is L². We know that this whole term has units of energy then what are the units of ħ? You know we can write this as mass to the something, L to the something and T for the something. I've called those somethings a, b, and c. Enter in your answers here. One of the points of this problem is to show you that even with very complicated physics there's some very simple analysis that we already have the tools to do. Now if you're having trouble solving this one, don't worry, it's another tricky question so as always go to the forums for help. But the way I solve it, let's first figure out what the units of energy were. If an E=mc², another energy has units of M x speed--speed is m/s, so L/T, and since that's squared, we can put a square on both of these. Now, I don't know why we're telling this too many denominators, so I'm going to write Energy has units of M¹L²T⁻². Well, this whole term must also have units of energy. So what I've rewritten is ħ² over something with mass and length squared, because M stands for mass and x is some distance. And you know that mass have units of energy, so if move this mass up here and this L² up there to tell me that ħ² has units of M² L⁴ and T⁻². Now, let's take the square root, these expos all get reduced by half and I have my answer--1, 2 and -1. If you got that, I'm very impressed. This is the first challenge problem, and this is a problem that I don't necessarily expect you to be able to get right with the knowledge you have, but I think it's a pretty interesting problem. So if you wanted to challenge yourself, go ahead and take a shot. It's completely optional. Now, I want you to go to a sink or a bathroom or somewhere you have access to a water faucet. Turn that faucet on. Take a look at the water as it falls down. You'll notice that it doesn't look like this as you might expect. In reality, the water tapers off. It gets thinner and thinner as it falls. So after it has fallen in the distance y, the initial radius R has reduced to r. The question here is, can you find a mathematical equation that represents the radius of this column of water as a function of y. There's a couple of key insights to make here. And first is that the water passing through an imaginary hoop does so at a constant rate and that is totally confusing if I don't explain it more. What I mean is if I drew an imaginary ring here and an imaginary ring here and let the water pass through both of them. If 1 L of water is passing through this ring every minute, then 1 L must be passing through this ring too. None of the water is splashing off to the side. It's not building up in the middle. So it must be the case that the water's flow rate is constant. You can also show that this flow rate well is equal to the velocity of the water through a given ring times the area, the cross-sectional area of the water at that point--so that would be πr². Third, we have to assume that the water when it leaves the faucet already has some velocity. It's moving downwards at V₀. So what I want you to do is to write an equation that the radius of this water is a function of how far it's fallen, y, in terms of y is initial velocity and g the acceleration on earth, which is 10 m/s². This question won't be graded because it's a challenge question. But when you get your answer, you should share it with your classmates in the forums and talk about it, and I think this is really an interesting problem. For this next problem, imagine you're the captain of a ship on the high seas. And you know there's some enemy ship about 200 m away. You want to aim your cannon at some angle α, and shoot the cannonball with some initial velocity of v¬ such that you hit the enemy ship. Unfortunately, there's this 40-m tall iceberg about 110 m away from you, which makes your shot a lot more difficult because you have to go over the iceberg. So what angle α and initial speed v¬ should you use such that you hit the enemy ship? Now, there are actually a lot of answers here. But we're just looking for one that works. The one that works will hit the enemy ship. And not hit the iceberg. To answer this question, we're going to use a slightly different form of input than we normally do. This one though here contains a computer code, and you may have used this one though before if you've taken a Computer Science class at Udacity. We're only going to focus on these two numbers here. These two are the important ones. You don't need to worry about this line up here and this line down here. You will only need to look at these two, and you're going to take this line initial velocity = 50, and replace the 50 with what you want your initial velocity to be. So if you wanted your initial velocity to be 60 m/s, then you replace the 50 with a 60. You don't need to include the units. And if you wanted the launch angle to be 20°, then you need to replace this 10 with 20. Again, you don't need to write the word degrees or anything like that. So once you're ready to fire the cannon with this initial velocity and this launch angle, go down here and press the run button. Though after you press run, you'll be able to scroll down and see a nice graph of what the trajectory of your cannonball looked like. So I've scrolled down and now I get this nice graph of my cannonball's trajectory. And as you can tell, it looked like it was doing all right. It was headed towards the ship, but unfortunately it hit the iceberg. So next time I'm going to have to aim either a bit higher or give it a bit more oomph to try and hit the enemy ship. So feel free to toy around with your values and try and hit the ship just by guess and check. Or you can solve it directly and then hit the ship that way. Either way, once you've hit the ship, you'll get this nice boom animation, and then you know you have the answer. So once you've hit the enemy ship, you should scroll up and then press submit to submit your homework for grading. Now, currently, my cannonball doesn't work quite right because it hits the iceberg so I get this try again message but once you hit the ship you should get a "you got it correct" message. In that way, you know your homework's been counted. In order to get credit for this problem, all you have to do is hit the ship using that interphase I just described before, but here are a few bonus questions if you're feeling adventurous. Now, I warn you that these are pretty challenging so give them a try and feel free to discuss them in the forums but you won't be graded on whether or not you can answer these questions. The first bonus question is--what is the smallest angle α where the cannonball still makes it over the iceberg? Now you can imagine that at some point the angle α is going to be so small if we keep decreasing it that no matter how hard we fire the cannon it won't be able to reach over the iceberg. I want you to tell me what's the smallest angle is where I'm still guaranteed to be able to make it over the iceberg if I fire, however, with as much power as I want. The second bonus question was what is the smallest angle α where the cannonball makes it over the iceberg and can still hit the enemy ship? Now this is different than the first question because in this question, the cannonball just has to make it over the iceberg. It doesn't necessarily have to curve down and hit the enemy ship, but in this question the cannonball has to make it both over the iceberg and still hit the enemy ship. So tell me what's the smallest angle is where this is actually possible. Now, this question is really quite difficult, so don't feel bad if you can't get it and please free to discuss it in the forums and keep in mind this isn't for credit-- so just have fun with this problem. We know that Galileo was an amazing experimentalist. So let's go back to Pisa and repeat his experiment. [♪♪] We're back at the Leaning Tower of Pisa, and we're going to carry out one of Galileo's famous motion experiments. So we've already bought the equipment. We set up the experiment. Now, what's left to do is to carry it out. What I'm going to be doing is rolling this hollow cylinder down this inclined plane. I've divided this plane into four sections, equally spaced, and I'm going to be timing how long it takes the cylinder to roll through each section. So that will require four separate measurements. Instead of dripping water to measure time, I'm going to be using a piece of equipment Galileo did not have access to, an app on my cellphone. We've got our data. Now, we'll have to repeat this experiment several times so that we can ensure accuracy then we can analyze. Now, you're going to do the experiment yourself. To do this experiment, you're going to need a proper equipment. So first, you will need something flat and that could be a piece of wood like you just saw me use or it can even be something as simple as a book. You're also going to need a measuring device. This could be a meter stick or a tape measure or anything else that measures distance. You'll need something to roll, and it should be either spherical or cylindrical, and you'll need a timing device, something that measures in seconds, and you can download this or find it in the internet very easily. Finally, you'll need something to prop your flat object up. This could just be a book that you stick underneath your flat object or maybe a piece of wood, it doesn't matter. Just the purpose is to make this into an incline. To actually do this experiment, first you're going to need to measure four equally spaced intervals on your flat object, and actually, it doesn't matter what unit to use. This could be 1 m or it could be 2 cm as long as you're consistent, as long as the spacing is the same each time, and you're going to start taking time measurements. So for each of these four distances, you want to time how long it takes the ball to roll from the starting point to the end point and actually it's not enough to do this just once for each distance. You want to repeat each experiment multiple times. How many? It's up to you. I would suggest four or five. What you'll then enter into this data table is your average time and the average deviation of those time measurements. You'll enter those numbers here since you know now how to compute averages and average deviations, and then later in the class, we'll do some data analysis with class the data on these distance measurements. Note one thing, this experiment is done slightly differently than Galileo did it. We're not letting the ball roll for a fixed period of time and then measuring the distance. We're letting the ball roll for a fixed distance up to one or up to two and then measuring the time. But this isn't equally good way to do this experiment. Good luck! Let's start this problem by talking about the feather problem. Remember back in unit 2 that Aristotle said that "objects fall at a constant speed," and he said that speed is proportional to the mass. Galileo on the other hand said that "all objects fall with constant acceleration." We've seem to have taken Galileo's side in this debate, but is that the right thing to do? After all the feather or a sheet of paper seems to fall down and what seems to be constant rate. Let's consider something called air resistance. Now, if you're driving in a car on a highway and you stick your hand out the window, you don't need to have a ridiculously long arm but it helps. You can feel this force of air resistance, and this is the force of a quickly moving object. For example, your hand feeling the actual individual molecules of air as they slam up against your hand, and that provides an actual force and its always opposite the direction of motion. So, if the car is going this way the force is that way. The size of the air resistance force is more or less approximated by an equation like this. Here v is the speed your traveling and b is some number that depends on maybe the size and shape of your hand or the feather. As you can see, this force goes bigger as your velocity increases. So, let's see how this feather and it's being pulled down by gravity. As its speed increases, the air resistance force it feels will also increase. What eventually happens is the feather reaches what's called terminal velocity and that is the maximum speed that the feather reaches. So, let's say the feather with mass 0.001 Kg so it would be 1 gram and this b, this constant up here of 0.04. I'm not going to tell you the units, but I bet you can tell me what they are on the form. I want you to tell me knowing what you know about motion at a constant speed. What will be the feather's terminal velocity in m/sec. When we know the constant speed is the same as being at rest from the point of view of forces, which means the air resistance force must equal to weight then they balance. When I carry out this Algebra, I find the terminal velocity or the maximum speed that this feather will reach is 0.5 m/s². Here's a man in elevator. This man wants to lose weight. And he is very happy because he thinks he has found a pretty clever way to lose his weight. This man is standing on a scale, and as a quick reminder, let's talk about the forces acting on this man when the elevator is completely still. We can represent him as a box of mass m. Gravity is pulling down with the strength equal to mg. And a normal force is pushing up with the exact same strength, because he is motionless. There is no acceleration. Now remember, the scale doesn't read mg. It doesn't tell you exactly what your weight is. It tells you how hard it has to push to keep you from falling through the scale. So this man's realized that if he can just reduce Fn, then he can reduce his perceived weight. Of course, this will lead to unbalanced forces meaning he'll have to accelerate downwards. In order to accelerate downwards, he's going to need an elevator. This man finds that when he is at rest in the elevator, the scale says 800 N. He wants the scale to say 600 N. Now, I have two questions for you. First, what must his downward acceleration be to actually see this target weight of 600 N on the scale? Next, if he travels at acceleration for 5 seconds and assuming the elevator started at rest, how far will he travel? And this is more of a review of unit 2. Enter your answers here and here. If his measured weight is 800 N at rest, that must be his true weight, because at rest, the normal force is equal to the weight and so both are equal to 800 N. If his target weight is 600 N, that's what he wants the scale to read. That's how hard he wants the scale to be pushing up on him that should be the normal force. Well, now we can do F=ma. For F, we'll plug in where 800 is 200 bigger than 600, so we have an unbalanced force of 200 N. M is going to be 80 and that's because this 800 N. That's equal to m<i>g and g is 10.</i> If I divide both sides by 10, m is 80, so if 200=80<i>a. a=2.5 m/s².</i> And how far will this elevator travel in 5 seconds if this is its acceleration? Well, we can use this equation, which we know from unit 2. We assumed it started from rest as soon as your velocity is 0. And that gives us a Δy of about 31 meters. Good job. In this problem, we're going to probe the acceleration due to gravity. Up until now, we've been saying that this acceleration is just 10 m/s² anywhere on the earth. We've been assuming it didn't matter if you are here, or here, or here, or there. Little g was equal to 10 m/s². Now, one thing I have to confess that it's actually closer to 9.81 m/s² but that's something we're not going to worry about. What I really want to get in this problem is the underlying cause of this acceleration and examine any sort of differences in this acceleration due to, well, let's see. We know this gravitational acceleration is due to a gravitational force, which we can call FG. And we've talked about how that force is proportional to 1/r². Now, when we stand on the earth, the r that we're talking about is actually the distance between the center of the earth and the center of our bodies, and the distance is about 6,400 km. That's the radius of the earth. Now, since the force of gravity has this strange dependence, 1/r², and remember, this means if I get twice as far away from the earth, so maybe if I were out over here somewhere, the force of gravity would be 1/4 as strong because 1/4 is 1/2². Now, we know that there's this strange dependence on the force of gravity, it goes like 1/r². So that means if I get twice as far away, the force gets actually four times weaker. Now, remember it's this force of gravity which is causing this acceleration due to gravity. And since force is proportional to acceleration, well that means that acceleration like gravity is proportional to 1/r². By what percentage does the acceleration due to gravity change when we stand on Mount Everest? Now, Mount Everest would be somewhere over here. And the height of Mount Everest is about equal to 9 km. This is a tricky question. But try to think back about what you know about proportionality to give us an answer. If acceleration is proportional to 1/r², I can write an equation like this a₁ /a₂ = (r₁/r₂)⁻² and the negative is because this is in the denominator and the 2 is because r². Well let's take a₁ to be our normal acceleration due to gravity g, a₂ would be our acceleration on the top of the mountain, we call that a₂ still, r₁ is our distance from the distance center of the earth when we're at sea level so that's 6,400 km and r₂ is 9 bigger than that because we're on the top of Mt. Everest. And when you do this math out, you find that the acceleration on the top of Mt. Everest is equal to the normal acceleration times 0.997. Well that's exactly equal to 99.7% of the normal acceleration due to gravity, which means we've decreased by about 0.3% and if you had made this negative, that was okay too. So going from sea level to the highest place on earth, the acceleration due to gravity only changes by <1%. So g really is pretty close to being constant when you're on the surface of the earth. Before we do more problems, let's do a quick lesson on inclined planes because they're really a fascinating tool for making nature work for us. Now we already know that Galileo had a lot fun rolling balls down inclined planes. And if you remember the reason he did this was because it slowed down motion and allowed him to make some measurements and observations that he couldn't have made with just objects in free fall. The question though is why did rolling balls down an inclined plane slowed down their motion. Sure it seems sort of obvious but let's analyze it. Instead of rolling balls, let's imagine sliding blocks because the physics of rolling is slightly more complicated than I want to get into right now. We're zoomed in now, and here's our block and it has mass m. And we're going to let it slide down this inclined plane. For now, we're pretending this plane has no friction. Remember friction is the force associated with things rubbing. Well, let's do what we always do and draw a force diagram. As always, weight points straight downwards and then normal force and remember normal means perpendicular, actually points from this direction and that's because it has to be perpendicular. We're not allowing for any friction. Friction would point up or down the inclined plane. We're only allowing for this normal force. We'll up to now what we would have done was take this force and break it into vertical and horizontal components. It turns out that's not the best way to solve this problem because we know from experience that this block is going to slide down the ramp. It's not going to slide straight to the right or straight up or straight down. It's going to slide in this direction, so that's the direction we should care about. And how do we care about a direction? Well, instead of breaking this force down, we break the weight down. We replace this downwards force with a force perpendicular to the surface, which I've indicated with this little perpendicular symbol here and a force parallel, which I've indicated with these two parallel lines. Now, the thing that's really cool is that if this plane was inclined at an angle α, we can do some geometry to show that this angle here inside this triangle is also equal to α. And since this here is a right angle, we can do trigonometry. In fact, if we want to look at the sine of this angle for example, well that's going to equal opposite over adjacent so F parallel over mg and when we solve that we find that F parallel is just mg times the sine of this angle. I mean, just a similar thinking to show that F perpendicular is mg times the cosine of the angle. Now let's think about what's going on here. Well I know that a block on a plane like this is going to slide this way. It won't jump off the plane, and it won't accelerate down into the plane. Okay. So that means that in this direction the forces are all set. They're balanced. Fn must equal F perpendicular. In fact, the only unbalanced force here is this parallel force. And this parallel force since it's unbalanced is what's causing the acceleration. It must be equal to ma. Well we can plug in what we know. F parallel is mg sin θ. So this must be true and this tells me that the acceleration of an object sliding down an inclined plane is equal to g times the sin of θ. Now that's very amazing. This number sine of θ is always between 0 and 1. It's always going to make g smaller. So this is exactly why Galileo chose inclined planes, they slow down acceleration. They make it smaller than g. Now, this was a lot of material. If you have any questions, go to the forums and ask. Now we're going to move on to a couple more problems as I have promised. Now the Udacity offices are in Palo Alto, CA, which is very close to San Francisco. San Francisco is notorious for its hills and the difficulty of parking. When you pull up to a spot in San Francisco, you have to pull your emergency brake and that locks the tires and prevents them from rotating. The force that keeps you from sliding down the hill though is actually what's called the force of friction. And that exists between the tires and the road. I didn't draw the arrow coming from down there, but that's really where the force exists. Now obviously friction can only do so much. Obviously if you park your car on a hill that's completely vertical, well, you're in trouble. Friction is not going to provide enough force to prevent you from falling down the hill. On the other hand, if you park in a pretty gentle hill you should be fine. I want to know what's the angle where your car is going to slip. There must be one. Let's figure out what it is. So let's say for your tires and this road surface the force of friction has a maximum value of 80% of the car's weight. I want to know what is the steepest angle hill, and this is what angle I'm talking about here, that you can safely park on, so if the hill got any steeper you're in trouble when the car falls down. Enter your answer here in degrees. If you're not sure what to do go back to the previous lesson and learn some more about inclined planes. And if you're still confused, go to the forums. I understand this is quite a tricky question. Well, let's take a look at the forces acting on this car. Well, we know there's the normal force. And we know there's gravity but we don't want to write that as a downwards arrow. But rather as a perpendicular arrow and a parallel one. And in the last video, we showed that the parallel force is equal to the weight of the car in mg times the sin of α. Now the steepest angle hill, well that occurs when friction force is totally maxed out. When it is at exactly its maximum value, which is 80% of the car's weight or put in another way Ff = 0.8 mg. Well in this situation where the car is just barely holding on, we know the friction force is balancing the parallel force so we can set these two equal to each other. Notice something amazing that happens. The m's and g's, the whole weight cancels out. This doesn't depend at all on the mass of your vehicle. Amazing! Well now, I have to take the inverse sine of 0.8 to solve for the sin of α. But still, I take this inverse sine of 0.8 and I get an answer of 53°. I'm very impress if you're able to get this on your first try or even your second or third. One thing that's a lot of fun to do in physics is to create fun problems for yourself. For no other reason, just to see if you can solve them and to see how a system might behave. Here we've created a problem for ourselves. This problem involves two masses connected by a string over a pulley. This mass is on a plane which is inclined at some angle α Let's call acceleration positive when this mass goes up and this one goes down into the right. Bause the other way, acceleration would be negative. Now, I'm not going to ask you to solve for the acceleration of this system. Maybe you could do it. Maybe not but what I want you to do is not solve. Yet still answer this question, and the purpose of this question is to build your physics intuition. Now, the way you're going to solve this question is by filling in these four boxes. The blue boxes, you'll fill in with either a 1 or a 2 to indicate whether the appropriate mass in that section of the equation is mass 1 or mass 2. The purple boxes you'll fill in with a plus sign or a minus sign. Now, what I want you to do is to really think about this problem and think in your head and maybe test some limiting cases. So for example, what happens if the M₂ is huge and M₁ is really small, maybe 0? What happens if M₁ is really big and M₂ is close to 0? What do you expect the acceleration to look like in those cases? Enter your best solution in these boxes. So for example, if you thought this was the answer, you'd enter a 1, a plus sign, a 2, and a plus sign. Go ahead, give this some thought, and see if you can accurately fill in those boxes. The denominator has M₁ either + or - M₂. Well, it can't be minus. Otherwise, if these masses were equal, you get 0 in the denominator. I don't like dividing by 0. Next, let's talk about this box. Should that be a + or -? Well, if it was plus sign, this numerator would always be positive. That would indicate it would always accelerate in this direction, no matter what. But clearly, if this guy is huge and this mass is really tiny, it should accelerate the other way. Since negative acceleration is possible, this better be a minus sign. In fact, when will negative acceleration happen? When this term is really huge. Or putting it another way, when this term is really huge. That means, this box then will have a 1. To figure out what goes in this box, let's imagine the limiting case for this mass is 0. Well, if this mass is 0, we just have a block on an inclined plane. And in the lesson I just gave you on inclined planes, you saw the acceleration in that case should be g sin α. Well, if we make this a 2, well the M₁'s are both 0. M₂'s will cancel out, and with a = g sin α. It works. Very nice. This sort of thinking is the one we do all the time in Physics, and if you're able to get this right, it means you have a very strong physics intuition already. If you weren't able to get it right on your first guess, that's no problem either. This intuition takes a while to build. Don't worry, that's one of the things this class is for. Before we jump into the next question, let's talk about Newton's Third Law. The easiest way to remember this one is that forces occur in equal and opposite pairs. Now, that's easy to say but a little harder to understand what it means. The easiest way to get a feel for what this means is to go push on a wall. And I mean it. Really push on that wall. What do you feel? Well as was you exert a force to the left on the wall. I'll call that the force of you on the wall. You can feel in your hands that force pushing back. Call that the force of the wall on you. And the amazing thing is every single force in physics occurs in pairs like this. Whenever there's a force of A on B, there's an equal but opposite direction force of B on A. Now, one of the really amazing implications of this has to do with objects in free fall. If I look at this object as it's falling to the ground, I can draw a force diagram for you, and if we're ignoring air resistance, the only force is this downwards force of mg. But that's a lone force. There's no partner to it. I thought forces always occurred in equal and opposite pairs. Well, as a matter of fact, they do. In fact, this force is the force of gravity. We could rephrase it as the force of earth on the ball, F earth-on-ball. There's actually a corresponding upwards force of the ball pulling on the earth and this is truly amazing. Right now, you are tugging on the earth with the force exactly equal to your weight. Pretty amazing, and that is what this next question deals with. So according to Newton's third law, forces always exists in equal and opposite pairs. So that means as the earth pulls the skydiver down, the skydiver also pulls the earth up. We know that a skydiver moves down as she falls, but my question is, "By how much does the earth move up during the 10-minute skydive?" To answer this question, let's assume our skydiver has a mass of 65 kg and the earth has a mass of 6x10²⁴ kg. Now here I have used scientific notation and if you're not familiar with what this means you should check out the link below this video to learn more about it. It's not too hard. Basically, it means that this is a 6 followed by 24 zeros. Use your knowledge of Newton's third law of motion and these numbers to answer this question. Enter your answer in scientific notation by putting your base number here and the exponent up in this box. Here's a skydiver with the force of mg down and here's the earth with the force of mg up. This mg is the exact same size as this mg. So we want to use the mass of the skydiver, 65 kg. When we plug in 65 and 10 for g, we find this at 650 N. Now what acceleration does that correspond to? If we want to calculate the acceleration of the earth, let's use F = ma. This is the mass of the earth by the way with subscript e. If we want to calculate the acceleration of the earth, we should use F = ma. And now, this mass is the mass of the earth and our mass is 6x10²⁴. If I divide both sides by this mass, I get an acceleration of 1.1x10⁻²² m/s². If I use our tried and true motion equation, assume that the earth's initial velocity upward is 0 and plug in for a and t, I get an answer of 2x10⁻¹⁷ m. This is way smaller than even a single atom. So yes, even though they're equal and opposite forces, the earth is so massive that the force any individual person exerts on it is totally negligible. This question is about designing a roller coaster. Now, when we're designing a roller coaster, well, if it's going to be any fun, we should probably put a loop into it somewhere, and if it's going to be safe, we have to make sure that our cart is going fast enough at the top of the loop, so that we don't fall out. It turns out that for a 10 m radius loop, the minimum velocity we need as we go across the top of the loop is about 10 m/sec. So given the setup of this roller coaster, I want to know what's the minimum height that we need to make the initial drop such that the cart assuming there's no friction on the track will have enough speed to make it through this loop safely. Enter your answer here in meters. Well, let's see. Here another car just has potential energy. Over here, it will also have potential energy because at the top of the loop, the car is still some distance off the ground. And so, what I'm doing here implicitly is using the ground as my zero point of potential energy. Now, if this is a circular loop, this height is going to be 2R, but it will also have some kinetic energy here. So from an energy point of view, the potential energy up here is getting converted to both potential energy and kinetic energy. Let's set up that equation. Well, here is my equation expressing the conservation energy. Potential energy goes to potential plus kinetic. The mass is cancelled and remember I'm solving for the minimum height. I'm going to set this velocity equal to the minimum possible velocity that the car could have as it goes to this loop. When I worked this out, I get a minimum height of 25 m. If I make the first hill any lower than that, the car will not have enough energy to make it safely run this loop and you might have some people falling out of the car, which isn't the best idea when designing a roller coaster. This problem is very similar to the previous problem, but now we're going to add a bit of friction. So now let's say that we have a hill of height of 45 m and again we have our car which will go down the track through the loop and continue on. Remember, the car needs to be going at least 10 m/sec as it goes through the top of the loop. This question isn't so much about designing a roller coaster. Here, it's already designed. Now, I want to know about maintaining a roller coaster. Let's say after expecting the track, one of your maintenance workers finds that, actually, this region of track which I've highlighted in black, has gone a bit rusty and as a result, it's not so smooth. Now, instead of sliding smoothly, the car grinds a little bit. Clearly, this is probably not a good thing. Just how much friction could there be to still allow the car to make it through this loop? The question is what the maximum frictional force and remember there's only friction over this 20 m the rest of the track, we're assuming is still nice and smooth. What's the maximum force that would still allow the car to make it through this loop? Enter your answer here in Newtons. Well, let's see. The way I would approach this problem is by first, thinking about what we have. What we have is potential energy and I'm going to call that the initial potential energy. Since what we're going to need will require both some potential energy final and some kinetic energy. Now hopefully, what we have is greater than what we need because we're going to lose some energy when we go over this area with friction. If I think about this in terms of energy, the final energy would just be whatever my energy is minus how much I lose here. The amount of energy I lose, well, that would just be the work done by friction. How much energy is lost? Well, I can rewrite this equation like this. Okay, fair enough. We need the initial energy and the final energy, and then we can convert that to some sort of work and we should know the maximum force, not bad. Well, the initial energy that's just the potential energy. The final energy is our final potential energy and remember this is now a height of 2R, so this is an expression for my energy lost. I can plug in my known values from up here and I find energy lost is equals to 40,000 joules, and how is that energy getting lost? Well, friction is doing work. Let's take a look at a force diagram for the car. We've got our standard weight in normal force and since the car is moving to the right, friction is point to the left and note that this is exactly parallel going the opposite direction as the direction of motion, so we can use our equation, work equals F parallel times distance. And I get an answer of 2000 N. Now you may have also called this negative. I was being a little sloppy here with what I should call negative and positive. We accepted that ± 2000 N for the answer. For this problem, imagine that you're at a gym. Here you are and you're going to get some exercise by lifting weights, in particular, this 25 kg weight and you're going to lift it at a height of 1 m and you're just going to keep repeating lifting and lowering the weight to get some exercise. Assume for this problem that you only do work when you're lifting the weight. When you lower it, you don't spend any energy and you don't get any energy back either. Let's assume you do 2/3 repetitions per second where each repetition is one raising and lowering of the weight, and let's assume you are doing a 4-minute workout. Now I want you to tell me how many calories will you burn if 1 calorie is equal to 4200 joules--good luck. To figure out how many calories you burned, we're going to need to solve for how much work you do and we know from the work energy theorem that the work you do is equal to the change in energy of the weight.and the changed energy of the weight is equal to the change in it's kinetic energy plus the change in it's potential energy. Well the weight starts at rest and it ends at rest too, so the change in kinetic energy is zero. But it does change in potential energy when you raise it at 1 m. Okay, so using energy (mg)h for the potential energy of the weight and plugging in all my numbers, I do a little math and I get that each time I raise the weight, I need to do 100 joules of work but that's just for one raising of the weight. How much work do I have to do to raise it over my 4-minute workout. I chose to do this next part of the problem using conversion factors. The workout takes 4 minutes and there are 60 seconds in 1 minute, so these minutes are cancelled and we do 2/3 repetitions per second, so the seconds are cancelled, and we do 100 joules of work for each repetition, so repetitions are cancelled and there's 1 calorie per 4200 joules, so joules are cancelled. Okay, now let's multiply all these numbers together and we get that over the course of our 4-minute workout, we burned 7.62 calories. Great work. Last problem set, we talked about the force of air resistance and how could be described using the equation F equals B for some constant V times velocity squared Velocity being the velocity of the object moving to the air. In this problem, we're going to use this equation to figure out what the maximum speed is for a car with a certain maximum power output, and yes this is a drawing of a car even though it's not a very good one.. Let's imagine that this car has a maximum power output of 150 HP and let's say that in this scenario, b equals 0.1, so using this information, particularly that the maximum power output of the car is 150 HP, I want you to tell me what's the maximum speed this car can maintain without slowing and give me your answer in m/s. To solve this, you may need to know that 1 HP is equal to 746 W. Good luck. The first thing I did to solve this problem was to draw a force diagram. We know the force of gravity is pulling down on the car like we'd expect and there is some normal force pointing upwards and since the car isn't accelerating vertically, we know these 2 bit forces must balance each other out perfectly. And of course, we have the frictional force which we've said is equal to bv² and we've got the force that the car is producing to make it go forward and this force is actually produced by the road pushing up on the wheels by Newton's Third Law the wheels pushed on the ground and the ground pushes back on the wheels causing the car to move forward, and we know that if the car is going at its maximum speed and can't go any faster then these two forces should be perfectly balance too. We can say that this force here equals this force over here. Starting with the equation for work, I divide both sides by Δt and you'll note that this term Δd that change in position over the change in time Well, that's just the same as velocity and also over here, work divided by change in time that is just the same thing as power. We get this nice equation that power is equal to the force pushing the car forward times its velocity. Now, what's this F equal to? Well, we said earlier that this F has to perfectly balance out the frictional force. We know that the frictional force is equal to bv² so we can just plug that in and multiplying that by the v, we get that the power is equal to bv³. and summing for velocity, we get that the velocity required to go at a constant speed at a certain power is equal to the cube root of the power divided by that constant b and plugging in the numbers we were given. It turns out that 150 horsepower is equal to 111,000 watts. We get that the maximum speed you can go is 103.8 m/s, and if you're curious that is about equal to 232 mi/hr. Of course, in the real world, we're not just dealing with air friction, we're dealing with all sorts of friction. This value might be a little higher that you'd expect, but if you've got this value, congratulations on solving the problem. For this problem, imagine that we have a skier on this really steep slope that's 90 meters tall and he comes to this ramp of height 10 meters that makes an angle α with the ground. I want you to tell me using your knowledge of energy and two dimensional motion how far away from the ramp will the skier land--what's this distance d? Measured from where the skier lands to the bottom of the of ramp when he took off. Put your answer here and use 30 degrees for α and use 10 m/s² for g rather than 9.8 just so we're all in the same page. Now, you may end up having to use the quadratic equation in this problem. If you're out of practice with this or maybe you never learned it, check for links in the description for help on how to use the quadratic equation to solve this problem. Let's start off with this problem--let's pick a location to define a potential energy U to be equal to 0. I'm going to choose just this line here, a place where the skier will land and where all of our heights are measured from just to make things nice and easy. The first part of the problem, I want to figure out what the speed of the skier is at this point right here when he finally just leaves ramp because that is just a projectile motion problem, and we know how to do that from unit 2. I want to figure out using energy techniques. What his kinetic energy and therefore what his speed will be when he's leaving the ramp right here. Now, we know from conservation of energy that the skier's kinetic and potential energy must add up to the same value in both his starting position here and when he's just leaving the ramp. We can actually get rid one of these four variables already. At the beginning of the jump, the skier isn't moving yet, so we know his kinetic energy must be 0. Doing a little Algebra, I find that his final kinetic energy should be equal to the difference between his original potential energy and his final potential energy. And doing a little algebra and plugging in the values we were given, we find that the skier's velocity is 40 m/s when he's leaving the ramp here. Now that I know the speed of the skier at the tip of the ramp, I can now calculate using kinematics how far away from the ramp he will land. Note that in the previous part of the problem, 40 m/s was what we called the final speed, and it was for that part. It was what the skier's speed was at the end of the first part of the problem when he was just on the tip of the ramp. But now, that 40 m/s is the original speed for the second part of the problem when the skier is flying through the air. That's why I'm using this convention of calling this V0 now. The first thing I'm going to do is break this original velocity into x and y components based on this angle α. And in doing so, I find that the original Vx is 34.64 m/s, and the original Vy is 20 m/s. Now, I'm going to use this kinematic equation to solve for the time t when the skier lands on the ground and that's when his change in y would be -10 since 10 appeared and then he goes down to 0, a change of -10, and doing a little algebra, I write this quadratic equation. Now, it doesn't look like I can factor this quadratic equation, so I'm going to have to use the quadratic formula. And plugging these numbers into the quadratic equation, I get two solutions, t=-0.45 s and t=4.45 s. Now, what's the deal with this negative time one? Well, if we look back at our graph, we can actually imagine the skier going backwards in time on his trajectory, prodopdopdop. And he would actually intercept the y equal 0 line right about here. Our solution is actually still correct. It's not quite what we're looking for in this problem. Instead we're going to focus on this positive solution, t=4.45 s, and that sounds reasonable. It sounds like it might take about 4.5 s for the skier to go in the air and land back on the ground. Okay. Now, I'm going to use this equation to figure out how far in the x direction the skier travels during that time he is in the air. Now keep in mind there's no acceleration in the x direction so this term goes to 0, and we are left with just Δx=V0x<i>t.</i> And plugging in the numbers we were given, we got that the final change in x. The distance d that the skier lands away from the ramp is 154.1 m. If you got this answer, great work For these next few problems, we're going to introduce a new tool for us to work with. Springs! Springs are a whole lot of fun, and we can use them to make all sorts of fun things like trampoline and spring scale. We can even use them to protect people if elevator cable snapped, and springs add all sort of fun problems to physics, so we're going to do a few those now. But first, I just want to introduce a few of the concepts we are going to need to understand how springs behave. To make sure we're all in the same page for our discussion of springs, I want to go over some of the assumptions we make when we're talking about springs. We are going to assume that we can either compress springs like this or stretch them like this, but we're not going to deal with springs being pulled and angled like this. Now, you can actually handle problems like this in physics but that's a bit beyond a scope of this class. We're going to assume that the spring only moves in one dimension. It can either be squished or it can be pulled on to extend it. We're also going to assume that the mass our spring is 0 so the mass was springs and that doesn't seem very realistic, but it's really a helpful assumption for solving our problems. And it turns out that in many cases, the mass of the spring is pretty small compared to the masses of the other things we're dealing within the problem. This assumption isn't the terrible one but just know that if you're doing super realistic problems, we couldn't say the springs are massless. One important concept we'll need in our discussion of spring is the idea of equilibrium length, and to see what this is, let's look at a few examples. First imagine that we have a spring here that no forces are acting on. Nobody's pulling it or pushing it or anything like that. Even though it's not being pushed or pulled, it has some natural length that it likes to be at. It may be 10th of a meter or something like that. We called this natural length of the spring, the equilibrium length. Now, if we pull on the spring or push on the spring to compress it or extend it, then we're going to change the length of the spring away from the equilibrium length. And the amount that the length of the string changes, we called Δx. Δx is the change in the length of the spring away from the equilibrium length. It is important to note that both extending the spring and compressing the spring can change the length of the spring away from the equilibrium length. All right. Now, we're ready to talk about energy. If you push a block against the spring, you'll notice that you have to fight keep it in that same spot. It wants to bounce back in the other direction. Similarly, if I try and pull on the block extending the spring, it tries to pull back to the other direction. Now, if I let the block go, in either the case when I'm compressing the spring or in the case where I've extended the spring, the block is going to accelerate and go bouncing back and forth, which means that it's gaining kinetic energy. And if the blocks gained kinetic energy, that energy must to come from somewhere, and it turns out that energy was potential energy stored in the spring, and you'll notice that the more I stretch the spring, the more dramatically, the block will rebound. In other words, it will have more kinetic energy if I stretch the spring further or compress it further. This means that the energy stored in the spring, the potential energy, should probably scale with the distance away from the equilibrium length, and in fact, it does. It turns out that we can write the potential energy stored in the spring as 1/2 times some constant k times Δx² and remember that Δx is the difference between the spring's current length and it's equilibrium length. Now, this constant k is something that's particular to the spring itself. It's a measure of how stretchy or stiff the spring is. Then you may be wondering whether this equation came from. I'm afraid I'm not actually going to derive it for you because that requires calculus, but I will say that it is not a mathematical coincidence that this equation looks a lot like the equation for kinetic energy. That's the topic we can discuss more on the forms. All right. Now, I think we are ready to do a few problems using springs. All right, so now we're ready to do a problem with springs. Let's imagine that we have this spring pointing horizontally attached to a wall over here and then over on the right side, we've got this 5 kg block moving at 2 m/s towards the spring. We can imagine what's going to happen here, the block is going to push against the spring, compress it a little bit, and then bounce back. Then I want you to tell me--what is the maximum amount away from the equilibrium point that this spring ever gets compressed--so what's the maximum value of Δx. Now, as a hint to solving this problem--keep in mind that the point where this spring will be most compressed is the point where the block's velocity becomes 0. All right, keep that in mind and good luck solving the problem. I chose to solve this problem by relying on our knowledge of conservation of energy, one of the big topics we talked about in this unit. Conservation of energy says that the kinetic energy plus the potential energy at all points in this problem should be the same. For this original point to look at, I'm going to choose the point where the block is over here with an original velocity of 2 m/s, so it definitely has a non-zero kinetic energy. And what about the potential energy? Well, there's always some gravitational potential energy, but that's not going to change in this problem because the block is only traveling horizontally. We can safely ignore that for this problem. The only potential energy we're concerned about is the potential energy of the spring. And since currently the spring is completely uncompressed, it's at its equilibrium length, we can say that the potential energy in the spring is 0, so we can cross out this term. For my final point, I'm going to choose this point here where the block speed is 0, and the spring is quite compressed. Now, why do we know this happens. Well, the block comes in with a velocity pointing to the left of 2 m/s, and we know it's going to push against the spring and go back with a rightward velocity of 2 m/s. So, somewhere along the line, the changing between a leftward velocity of 2 m/s and going to a rightward velocity of 2 m/s, the velocity must have been 0. That's actually the point where the spring is the most compressed during the entire course of this spring-block interaction. That's a good point to look at in our equation. At this point, since the velocity of the block is 0, it has no kinetic energy. We know that the final kinetic energy here is 0. All right, we're making progress. I can replace the kinetic energy with 1/2 mv² and the potential energy with 1/2 kΔx² like we saw on the previous video and plug in those values and we get that the maximum displacement away from the equilibrium length is 0.141 m. Great Work. Now in this problem, I want to think of a mass and pulling it back against a spring by a distance Δx. I've told you what the spring constant is here. When I release this mass it's going to go across this friction in this blue area, over this rough surface where there is some force of friction (F = 1 N), back towards this friction in this area, up to this curve ramp. It's going to travel up, up, up, up, up, up, up and back down, back over the area with friction, it's going to compress the spring, and so on. The cycle will repeat many times until eventually well the mass will run out of energy because every time the mass travels over this area of friction well it's going to lose some of its kinetic energy. It'll lose all of its kinetic energy. It'll go to 0, and the mass will have stopped somewhere on here. Your task is to tell me where. If we defined some coordinate x, and this x goes from 0 at the beginning of this area with friction all the way to— well the length is 0.8, so where's the mass when the motion stops? And another interesting thing to think about, what's the maximum height that the mass ever reaches when it launches off this ramp? The point of this question is to get you thinking and talking about energy transitions and what happens with friction. There's no solution video, and I'm not even going to have you answer the question here. What I want you to do is to see the thread in the link below this video, and go there and talk about this question. Share you answers. Talk about your approach. For the next couple of problems we're going to be talking about gravitational potential energy. Now, we talked quite a bit about potential energy due to gravity before, but we had a few assumptions when we had that discussion, Particularly, the fact that we were dealing with small distances. So up to now, we've been treating acceleration of falling objects as a constant which we call (g) and for this to be the case, we found that the force of gravity on an object has to be equal to (mg). and we also found that the potential energy due to gravity is equal to (mgh), and it turns out that this equation actually only works well over small distances and why is that? Well, we only get this equation based on the assumption that acceleration is constant. In the last problems; however, we found that (g) is actually not constant and that the force of gravity varies depending on where you are in the earth. In particular, we found that the force of gravity more generally, is actually proportional to 1 over the distance away from the center of the earth squared. The force of gravity actually gets weaker the further away you get from earth and stronger the closer you get. This assumption that (g) is constant everywhere, and therefore that the potential energy is this equation, is just not valid when we change our altitude too much. Describing the gravitational force asf (mg) and the gravitational potential energy as (mgh), works great over small distances especially if we're near the surface of the earth. But as we change our distance away from the center of the earth, (g) is no longer constant and these equations no longer become as accurate. To figure out an equation for force and potential energy that works at all distances, let's start by looking at this relationship we found here. That the force of gravity is proportional to 1 over the distance away from the center of the earth squared. So right now, this is a proportionality but we can always turn proportionalities into equations by adding a constant of proportionality. I can turn this proportionality into this equation over here with this constant of proportionality which I'm going to call (G), and this (G) here is really to make sure the units work out correctly in this problem, so that we can get a force, even though we've really got 1 over a distance squared. All right, but this doesn't seem quite right either. We know that the force of gravity actually depends on mass. And there's no mass in this equation yet, but we have to ask whose mass does this gravitational force depend on? Well, it should depend on the mass of the object which I've been calling (m), and that should depend on a mass of the earth which I'm going to write as (ME). Let 's add those into our equation. All right, so now we've got a slightly more complicated-looking equation but it's got all the essentials. It got this constant of proportionality to make sure our units are right. It got the mass of both the earth and the mass of the object we're looking at, and the force is proportional to 1 over the distance between the object and the center of the earth squared. And it turns out this equation actually is correct and it has a very special name. It's called Newton's Law of Universal Gravitation. It's a much more general way of talking about the gravitational force all throughout the universe, not just on earth too. All right, so now we can describe the gravitational force at any scales we want. We don't just have to stay close to the earth's surface and we don't have to deal with small distances. What about the gravitational potential energy more generally? Well unfortunately, to drive the general potential energy formula, we need a bit of calculus, so I'm just going to give it to you. It's equal to negative G times mass of the earth times mass of the object over the distance between the object and the center of the earth, no square this time. So it looks quite a bit like this equation, but that's not that surprising. These two equations look quite similar too. Let's take just a moment to make sure this equation makes sense. This equation had units of force and to get from this equation to this equation, we basically multiply by distance to get rid of the square and the denominator. This must have units of force times distance and force times distance is equivalent to units of energy which is great because we're dealing with potential energy. The units make sense, but what's the deal with this negative sign? That seems kind of strange, so to see what this negative is doing here in the equation, let's consider two points at distances R1 and R2 away from the earth. We expect the potential energy of 0.2 over here to be greater than the potential energy of 0.1 over here. We saw when we were using (mgh) that as the distance away from the earth increased, the potential energy increased as well. So we should expect the same thing to happen here, with (mgh) however, the distance away from the earth was in the numerator, but in this case, the distance away from the earth is in the denominator. The behavior is actually quite different. You can imagine that as we get further away from the earth, this value of hour is going to increase which will cause the potential energy to decrease which is the opposite of what we want to have happened. We need the negative sign here to make sure that as hour gets larger, the potential energy gets larger as well and that can only be done by having a negative here. Now, I know that's a rather confusing topic, so please feel free to discuss this on the forums. Okay, now that we know more general formula for gravitational potential energy, we can do problems relating to the earth and space and at large distances without having to worry about the air induced by using (mgh). Up to this point, we've been using mgh for gravitational potential energy. But in the previous video, I discussed how this formula is actually more accurate. But it's strange because these formulas actually looked quite different. For example, the distance away from the ground h here is in the numerator. Whereas in this equation, the distance away from the center of the earth R down here is in the numerator and that seems awfully strange. This one is positive and this one is negative. There are quite a few differences. The question is, can these values really be similar? We're going to do a problem where we're going to have to use both these formulas and we're going to see if we get similar results over small distances. And then we're going to calculate the percent error by using this equation instead of this one. Let's imagine that we have a person here who's dropping a 1 kg ball off a 50 m tall building. Now it turns out that this 1 kg mass doesn't actually matter to the final calculation but we'll just throw it in there just to make our lives easier. I want you to solve for the kinetic energy of the ball at the bottom of this building using both of these forms of gravitational potential energy. Then once you calculated the final kinetic energy using both of these formulas, I want you to tell me what's the percent error using mgh instead of this more general formula. You should put your answer in this box. And in order to solve this problem, you may need a few of these constants down below. Here's the value of G, here's the radius of the earth in km, and here's the mass of the earth in kg. And just as a hint to get you started in the right direction, when you're using this formula this R should be the radius of the earth when the ball is at the bottom of the building and should be equal to the radius of the earth plus 50 m when the ball is at the top of the building. Remember that this formula is from the ball to the center of the earth so we have to include the radius of the earth in our calculations. Also, when you're solving this problem, be sure to use g = 9.8 m/s² rather than 10 m/s² just to make our answer a bit more accurate. All right. Good luck finding that percent error. Let's start by calculating the final kinetic energy using mgh for the gravitational potential energy. Once again we start with conservation of energy. The idea that the kinetic energy and the potential energy always add up to the same value no matter what point we're at in our experiment. Now, we know that the ball starts off with no initial velocity. We can say that the initial kinetic energy is 0. And we know that the ball lands on the ground at height 0, so the final potential energy is also 0. This gives us that the final kinetic energy is just equal to the original potential energy which is equal to mgh and plugging in the values 50 m, 9.8 m/s², and 1 kg, we get that the final kinetic energy is 490 J. Now let's repeat that calculation except this time we'll use the more general formula for gravitational potential energy. Once again we start with conservation of energy. And just like last time, the initial kinetic energy is 0. Now this time, we can't say that the final potential energy is 0 because our formula is slightly different. In fact, this formula is only ever equal to 0 when R gets really, really, really, really, really, really light. And that's not going to happen any time in our problem. We can't ever say that the potential energy is 0. But we can still do the math and solving for final kinetic energy we get that the difference between the original potential energy and the final potential energy. And we can now plug in our formula for those to get this equation. And inserting our known values into this equation, we get that the final kinetic energy using this version of the gravitational potential energy is 486 J. Not bad. That's actually quite close to 490. And using these values to calculate the percent error, I get that my percent error for the final kinetic energy is 0.76%. That's not bad at all. So really mgh is pretty good for calculating gravitational potential energy over distances like 50 m but as we'll see later if we need to do much larger distances we'll have to use this version of gravitational potential energy. This problem is a challenge problem and it's not a challenge problem because it's particularly mathematically difficult, but rather the concept is really tricky to understand. We're going to be talking about escape velocity. What is escape velocity? Well to understand this let's imagine a rocket on the surface of the earth. First let's imagine that this rocket takes off with a very small speed. It's not going very fast. Then you can imagine that gravity pulling on the ship will cause it to slow down and fall back down to earth. Even at greater speed it might take off, finally come to a stop, and then fall back towards the earth. And this makes sense because the force of gravity is always pulling on the rocket. In fact, no matter how far away the rocket is from the earth, the earth will always be pulling on the rocket. If we draw a force diagram for a rocket, we see that the only force acting on it is the force of gravity pulling it back towards earth. No matter what speed the rocket is going, it's always accelerating back towards earth. And since it's accelerating back towards earth, the rocket is always slowing down. It makes sense that at some point it comes to rest and then falls back to earth. Even though this rocket is always accelerating towards earth and in fact is always slowing down it actually is still possible for the rocket to escape the earth forever and never be pulled back down. Just keep going away from the earth forever. That seems like a strange idea. If it's always slowing down, how can it avoid stopping completely? Well, let's find out. The answer to this question actually lies in this formula for gravitational potential energy that we just discussed. Now if you remember our discussion of potential energy in the unit, we discussed how we can always set our potential energy to be 0 at any point we want as long as we stick to it. In fact this formula could have some constant added onto it to make it so the gravitational was 0 at a specific location. Let's be smart in picking a good choice for what we want the zero potential energy point to be. I'm going to choose a point really, really, really far away from the earth to be where my gravitational potential energy is equal to 0. And it just so happens that this choice for a potential energy of zero point happens to be when K equals 0 and let's see why. As we get further and further away from the earth, R, the distance from the rocket to the earth, gets bigger and bigger and bigger which means this value continues to get closer to 0. And the only time this value ever gets to be 0 is when R goes to infinity at some point really far away from the earth. That's why we don't actually need that constant K here to get that same effect. Okay. But that doesn't really explain why I chose the zero point to be off at infinity. Why wouldn't I choose it at like the surface of the earth or something else like that.? Well let's find out how choosing our zero point for gravitational potential energy at infinity helps us reason about escape velocity. Now, once again, we're going to tackle this problem by using conservation of energy. The idea that the sum of the kinetic and the potential energy is the same at any point in the problem. For my starting point, I'm going to choose the original rocket taking off point. At which point, the rocket has some initial kinetic energy and some initial potential energy. And for my final point, I'm going to choose the point when the rockets finally stops moving the acceleration caused by the force pulling it back towards the earth finally causes its velocity to reach 0. At this point, there is no kinetic energy. All right. So now we want to consider a few cases of what happened if the sum of the kinetic and potential energy when the rocket lifts off has different values. First, I want to consider the case where the sum is less than 0. If the kinetic energy plus the original potential energy is less than 0 then we know that the final potential energy must also be less than 0. And this is great because if we look at our general formula for gravitational potential energy we see that the value is always negative because of this negative sign on the front. We should be easily able to solve for R, the distance the rocket is away from the earth when its speed finally reaches 0. Now, what about the case where the original kinetic energy plus the original potential energy is greater than 0? Well then in this case the final potential energy must also be greater than 0. But this poses a problem since this formula says that gravitational potential energy is always negative, we're in trouble. How can the final potential energy be greater than 0 and less than 0 at the same time? The solution is they can't be. So what went wrong? Well, to get to this point, we assumed that the final kinetic energy was 0. If setting the final kinetic energy equal to 0 leads to a contradiction, then it must be the case that the final kinetic energy can't ever be 0. And what does that mean? It means that the rocket never slows down to 0 velocity. Even though it's always accelerating towards the earth, it never slows all the way down and falls back to earth. If the rocket never reaches 0 velocity and never falls back to earth, we can say that the rocket has successfully escaped. And that's what it means for the rocket to have escape velocity. Its original kinetic energy plus the original potential energy is greater than 0. And as you might've guessed, the threshold case where the rocket has just enough velocity to escape is when the kinetic energy plus the potential energy is exactly equal to 0. Awesome. All right. Now that you know this fact, you're ready to tell me what speed does the rocket need to be going in order to escape the earth from the surface of the earth? What is its escape velocity? In order to solve this problem you're going to need these constants. The value of big G, the value of the radius of the earth, and the mass of the earth. Good luck finding the escape velocity. And if you're confused about any of the topics I just discussed, please head to the forums and ask your questions there. I'll be happy to answer them. For this problem, imagine that we have a grandfather clock here and this grandfather clock keeps time with the pendulum. This pendulum has a length, which we're going to call le and a mass of m. Suppose we want to take our grandfather clock on a trip to the moon. Now we know that the period of the oscillations for this pendulum depends on the value of g, and g is different on the moon--in fact, it's 1.6 m/s² as suppose to 9.8 m/s². In order for our grandfather clock to work just as well on the moon as it does on earth, we're going to have to change the length of the pendulum. Can you tell me how long should this pendulum be on the moon in terms of how long it is on the earth? Put your answer here and give it in terms of the length of the pendulum on earth. If you think the pendulum on the moon should be twice as long if we put 2 here, and if you think it should be, say, a third as long, you should put 0.33 here, something like that. In order for our grandfather clock to keep the same time on the moon than it does on the earth, we needs its period to be the same on both the earth and the moon so that I can plug in the equation for the period of a pendulum for both the earth and the moon. And fortunately lots of things cancel like the 2π here and I'm going to square both sides, and doing that I get this nice ratio here and do a little more algebra, I get that the length of the pendulum on the moon should be equal to the length of the pendulum on the earth times the ratio of the values of g on both the moon and the earth. And plugging in our known values for g on the moon and g on the earth, I get that the length of the pendulum on the moon should be equal to 1.6 times the length of the pendulum on the earth--great work! The next few problems we're going to be talking about shock absorbers and shock absorbers help keep your car ride smooth even when the road is extra bumpy. Now, for this problem let's imagine that each of the four wheels on a car each has a shock absorber, which we're going to model as a single spring with spring constant K. There are four wheels here, and each one is separated from the body of the car with one of these springs with spring constant K. K is equal to 100,000 N/m and if the mass of the car is 2000 kg, can you tell me what's going to be the displacement Δx, so how much are these springs going to compress away from their equilibrium position when we put the mass of the car on those springs. Give your answer in centimeters here. To solve this problem, I started with a force diagram and this green square here is going to represent our green car. As always, we have the weight force pushing down mg and we also have each of the four springs pushing up on a car. We have four separate spring forces here, four forces pushing up on the car. In order for this car body to be at rest not accelerating, it must be the case that these four forces from the springs combine must perfectly balance the weight force mg. We can now say that four times the force of one spring must be equal to the weight force. Using Hooke's law here and then doing a little bit of algebra we find that the change in x the distance away from the equilibrium point that these springs get pushed is equal to mg/4<i>K for one of the springs.</i> And plugging in values for all these constants, I find that Δx is equal to 5 cm. Good work! For our second shock absorber-related problem, imagine that our car is driving along the road and suddenly it hits a giant bump and after hitting this bump, the car starts to bounce up and down on the shock absorbers. Using your knowledge of simple harmonic motion and springs, can you tell me what the period of the oscillation of the car over the wheels is going to be? Put your answer here in seconds. In order to solve this problem, we need to first make a key observation. Imagine that we have a block here that's suspended by four springs. Now we know that in order to calculate the net force on this block, we have to add up all of the forces contributed by each of these springs, which is going to be four times the contribution of one spring. But it also turns out that we can actually imagine all four of these springs being replaced by just one single spring with a spring constant of 4K. It turns out that springs when put in parallel like this, you can just add up their spring constants and treated as one common spring which is a pretty nifty trick. Now that we know this fact, we can actually just imagine all four of these springs on the bottom of the car as just being one big spring with spring constant 4K and now we're ready to solve for the period of oscillations. We learned in the unit that the period of springs oscillation is equal to 2π times the square root of the mass of the thing oscillating over the spring constant K. In this problem; however, this K is actually not the same as this K. Since this equation only applies to a block on one spring, we can immediately it to a block on four springs but as we just argued, these four springs are actually equivalent to one spring with a spring constant of 4K, so we can actually replace this K with 4K and now we can use this equation. And plugging in our numbers here, we find that the period of the oscillation of the car on the spring is equal to 0.44 seconds. For our last shock absorber-related problem, we're going to be talking about damping, So far when we've been talking about simple harmonic motion, we've been assuming that the motion just continues forever in this nice sinusoidal pattern. In real life, however, we have to deal with things like friction and losses to heat when the springs move up and down. In real life oscillations often look a lot more like this. where they start out with a large amplitude just like before but the longer they continue to oscillate, the smaller their amplitude become as they lose energy and this phenomenon is called damping. Now, there are actually several different types of damping, but for our problem, let's only consider this type of damping which we call under damping, where the amplitude decays in this kind of exponential pattern. All right, now we're ready to move on to the problem. Supposed the car here is damped, such that it loses 20.6% of its energy per cycle. That means that after a car hit, say a bump, it will oscillate with some initial energy but after each cycle, a cycle being one pattern like this, it will lose 20.6% of its energy. Looking at this situation a bit more mathematically, we get this equation that the energy of the oscillator after (n) cycles, is equal to 0.94 which is 1 minus 20.6% to the (ⁿ) times the initial energy E₀. What this equation is saying is that after three cycles, for example, the amount of energy left in the oscillator will be equal to 0.794³ times E₀. My question for you is, how many cycles does it take with this value n, in order for the amplitude to decay to one half of its original value? If for example, you said the answer was 4, that would mean that after complete oscillations, after four cycles, the amplitude of this oscillation would be reduced to one half its original value. Put your answer here and round your answer to the nearest whole cycle. Don't say 3.5, say 4 for example. So as a hint when you're solving this problem, you should keep in mind that the energy of the oscillator is directly proportional to the amplitude squared, not just the amplitude. Keep that in mind when you're using this equation here. Good luck. In order for us to calculate how many cycles it takes for the amplitude to decay to one half its original value, we need to know the relationship between the amplitude and the energy value which we know decays by 20.6% per cycle. This relationship is actually given by the potential energy equation. When the spring is most compressed or most extended, then the displacement away from the equilibrium length is equal to the amplitude A. At this point, where the spring is most stretched or most compressed, the potential energy is exactly equal to 1/2<i>K<i>A².</i></i> We should be careful here the value here should not actually be K, it should be equal to 4K, so this equation should actually be equal to 2KA², and that's because we have four springs down here which could be effectively treated as one spring with a spring constant of 4K which we saw in the solution to the previous question. Now, I'm going to substitute this value for potential energy 2KA² and the value for energy in our earlier equation, and doing a little math, we get that the current A² is equal to 0.794ⁿ<i>A².</i> Now, let's remember what we're looking for. We are looking for the amplitude A that's equal to exactly half the original amplitude. We can substitute one half A₀ for A here, and that gives us this equation here and quite nicely, the A₀ terms cancel and that gives us this interesting equation up here that 1/4=0.794ⁿ and depending on how much math you've had, you may recognize that you can solve this equation by using something called a logarithm. We don't actually have to use logarithms here. It turns out that if you go through trying different values for ⁿ--different integer values in particular, you'll find pretty soon that the solution to this equation actually is n=6, This means it takes six cycles, six complete oscillations in order for the amplitude of our spring oscillations to decay to one half the original value. Great work if you got this problem, but if you didn't, don't worry about it either--this was quite challenging. For this problem, imagine that one summer you're feeling particularly adventurous and you dig a hole straight through the center of the earth and by some miracle, you don't end up roasting yourself in the earth's core or anything like that. You managed to dig all the way through to the other side of the earth. And to celebrate the completion of your big summer project, you decide to leap dramatically into your tunnel to head towards the other side of the earth. Now, it turns out if you were to do this, you would oscillate back and forth between the earth's surface on this side and the earth's surface on this side, and lo and behold and turns out that this motion through the earth's core is actually simple harmonic motion. To see why this is simple harmonic motion, we're going to have to investigate what gravity is like within the earth. We know what it's like above the earth, but what's it like inside the earth. It turns out that the force of gravity within the earth's surface is equal to g<i>m/re<i>r.</i></i> You're distance away from the center of the earth which I'm calling r here. Now, it's possible to derive this equation from scratch but the derivation is quite complicated, so I'm not going to do it here but we should discuss that on the forums. The key thing we see about this equation is that the force grows proportionally with the distance away from the center of the earth and where we had seen this before? Well, it looks exactly like Hooke's Law which says that the force, a spring pulls on an object is equal to the spring constant times it's displacement away from the center. This equation for the force of a spring looks just like this equation for the force of gravity within the earth's surface except instead of x, we used r and instead of K, we have gm over the radius of the earth. Okay, now that you know how gravity scales within the earth, I want you to tell me what's the period of this simple harmonic motion. How long does it take for you to return to your original starting point, once you jumped in the earth completing one complete cycle here and put your answer in minutes and for this problem you should use 10 m/sec² for g, and you should use 6400 km for the radius of the earth--good luck! In order to solve this problem, we're going to have to relate this new force. The force of gravity within the earth's surface to a force we're more familiar with. This Hooke's Law Force, the force exerted by a spring. We know that with springs, the period is equal to 2π times the square root of the mass over the spring constant K. But in this problem, we don't have a spring constant and we don't have a value for K, but you'll know that by comparing our two equations here, we can actually find something in this equation that looks a lot like K. In this equation, the role of K is played by g<i>m/re.</i> We can call this new collection of constants Kg where Kg stands for our new "spring constant" with respect to this gravitational force, so now we can rewrite our equation for the force of gravity within the earth as F equals Kg times the radius. And now this equation looks exactly like this equation and we can tell what the value of K in this equation for period should be. We should just use our Kg value. Okay, so now | can use this value of Kg gm/re as the value of K in my period equation like so, and quite pleasantly, the mass terms here cancel, and this gives me this final equation for the period of a person oscillating through the center of the earth, that the period is equal to 2π<i>√g/re.</i> And I know all the values here and plugging it all those numbers, I find that the period of this oscillation is equal to 83.8 minutes. If you are able to get this value, congratulations! This next problem, we're going to construct a basic timing device using a block bouncing back and forth between two springs. Imagine that we have two springs here, each with a spring constant K, one attached to this wall over here and one attached to this wall over here. In the middle, we have a block that's freedom-bounce between the two of these over this friction less surface here. The separation between the two springs' equilibrium distance is 3 mm as shown here. Now, right in the middle of the 3 mm here is a little switch which connects to a timer over here, and every time the block moves over the switch in either direction, it sends a signal to the timer telling it that one second has passed. As an extra point of clarification, this switch is 1.5 m from either spring. I want you to tell me what does this initial velocity V₀ have to be such that every time the block passes over the switch here, a second has actually passed. In other words, we want to choose V₀ such that the time it takes the block to push up against the spring and bounce back to this same spot again will be one second exactly. You can put your answer over here in meters per second. Now there's one thing in particular that might trip you off with this problem. If you imagine that this block was attached to this spring, then the block would push against the spring in one-fourth of a period, return to the equilibrium position in half a period extend outwards in three-fourths of a period, and finally return to the equilibrium position once again after an entire period. But keep in mind that the block is not actually attached to the spring, This point, where the block extends outward and is pulled backwards by the spring actually never happens. In fact, the block loses contact with the spring at this point right here when it has maximum velocity at the equilibrium position. Keep that in mind when you're solving a problem. Good luck! I chose to break this problem down into three parts. In the first part, the block is moving from exactly the center where it just hit the timer over to the spring. In the second part it's in contact with the spring compressing it and then finally extending again, and in the third part, the block is moving to the right back towards the timer. Note that this problem is completely symmetrical, so it's sufficient for me to solve the problem on one side, and I now the same thing is going to happen for me on the other side. I only need to solve for one period of the block moving over here and bouncing back to the timer. I know the same thing is going to happen on the right side. In the first part, the block needs to travel a distance of 1.5 m and it's going in a velocity of V₀. I'm going to use this kinematics equation here and I know that the acceleration is going to be zero during this part so I can cross out this term, and doing a little algebra and plugging in my values here, I find that the time it takes for the block to move this distance of 1.5 m is equal to 1.5/V₀. I'm actually going to skip part two for a second and move on to part three. And in part three we said that the block is moving to the right and needs to cover the same distance of 1.5 m again, and we know from conservation energy that the kinetic energy of the block has to be the same both before and after it makes contact with the spring, which means that its speed will actually remain the same both before and after since the mass is remaining the same. This means that part three is actually an exact mirror image of part one. The block is just moving to the right this time over a distance of 1.5 m at the same speed V₀, except this time it's to the right. We could actually conclude right away that the time for part three is just equal to 1.5/V₀ just like part one. Now what about part two, well I made the argument in the question that the time that the block stays in contact with the spring is actually equal to 1/2 of the period. Not the full period of the oscillation of the spring, and this is because at this point the spring is just about to pull back on the block, but because the block isn't attached the spring can't actually pull back on the block. The block is free to move with the same velocity it has at this point, which happens to be the maximum velocity as well as the velocity that the block started with when it was coming in V₀. We can say that for part two, the time it takes is simply equal to the period of the T/2. Alright, now let's put these three times together. If we add together these three times and substitute in the period for the oscillations of a spring, we get this equation for the time it takes the block to move away from the timer and return back to it, and we know that we want this time to be equal exactly to 1 s. And solving this equation for V₀, I get that the original speed to be equal to 1.08 m/s. Great job! For this problem, imagine that your sitting on a swing set here that's 1 m off the ground, and the swing itself is expanded 4 m below the top of the swing set here. Now it turns out we can view the movement of you on the swing moving back and forth as being the same as the movement of the pendulum back and forth. For this problem, imagine that the maximum angle you ever reach away from the vertical here is 45°. When you swing back all the way and you run out of velocity, you're at 45° away from the vertical line here. And one time when your swinging forward, however, you decide to jump off the swing when the swing makes an angle at the vertical of exactly 30°, and of course you end up going flying and making a parabolic trajectory in the air before you finally land on the ground. Now can you tell me how far away from the swing you land. You should measure this distance from the point on the ground to right below the point where you jumped off the swing. Also, for this problem you should assume that you have a mass of 60 kg. Put your answer here. Good luck! Now just as a hint for solving this problem, you're probably going to have to use conservation of energy, so keep that in mind. It turns out that this problem is actually remarkably similar to the skier problem we did in the previous problem set, and we're going to have to use a lot of geometry to help us get through this. We're first going to try and solve for what your speed is when you just jump of the swing, and to know that, we're going to have to know how much potential energy you started with, and to know how much potential energy you had, we're going to have to know what your height was above the ground. And doing a little trigonometry here, I find that the maximum height achieved by the swinger is 5-4<i>cos 45°, and this turns out to be 2.17 m.</i> And using the equation for gravitational potential energy, I find that my original potential energy is 1302 J. I know that the original potential energy of this value of 1302 J is going to be exactly equal to my final potential energy plus my final kinetic energy. Let's start by solving for the final potential energy. Once again doing a little more trigonometry, I find that my final height above the ground is 1.54 m, and using this height, I get a final potential energy of 924 J. Now from this equation, I know that the final kinetic energy is just going to be equal to the difference in the two potential energies, which is equal to 378 J and using the equation for kinetic energy, I get that the final speed is equal to 3.55 m/s. Alright, now that I know my speed when I'm jumping off the swing, it should be pretty easy to figure out how far I go. Alright, if I do a little geometry here, I see that the angle that the velocity that make the horizontal is exactly 30°, the angle of the pendulum. And now that I know that this angle is 30°, I can solve for the x and y components of velocity as shown here. Now I can use this kinematic equations here to solve for the time t when I finally reached the ground. And note that this value of Δy is is not equal to 1 m when I jumped off the swing, it's actually equal to this value hf and plugging in my numbers here and then using the quadratic equation to solve for t, I find that t = -0.405 s or t = 0.761 s. And just like in the ski jumping problem, we know that it's actually this value for time we care about. This one we don't care about, so now we know it take me 0.761 s after I jumped off of the swing to hit the ground. And now let's figure out how much I move along the ground in this time. To calculate how far away from the swing I land, I'm going to use this kinematic equation here. And this time there is no acceleration in the x direction, and plugging in my numbers I find that I've landed 2.34 m away from where I jumped off the swing--great work! In this problem, we're going to investigate what happens when you connect a block to two springs not just one, and unlike in the shock absorbers problem, we're going to connect these springs to each other not both directly to the block. This is what we call putting springs in series rather than in parallel like we did with the shock absorbers. It turns out we can view a block dangles from two springs in this configuration as exactly the same as a single spring there with a different spring constant. In other words, if I covered up the springs and you just watch the block oscillating up and down, you wouldn't actually be able to tell the difference between these two cases. The case where there are two springs connected and the case where there's just one. For these two scenarios to be exactly equivalent, there actually has to be a very special relationship between the spring constant K₃ and the spring constants K₁ and K₂ and that's what I want you to solve for this problem. I want you tell me what's the value of K₃ in terms of K₁ and K₂ such that these two scenarios produce exactly the same behavior, and at each of these block boxes here, you can put either plus, minus, or times--good luck! In this unit, we talked about electric field line. And we described electric field lines as a way of visualizing the forces caused by an electric field. If for example I had a particle right here, this line would indicate that the force of electric field would push it this way if it had a positive charge and this way if it had a negative charge. And for this problem I've drawn three separate field diagrams. Each of which are corresponding to the same configuration of charges. We have one particle with the charge of +5q, another particle with the charge of just +q, and finally a particle with the charge of -10q. Out of these three electric field diagrams, only one of them has the lines drawn correctly. Can you tell me which one of these is drawn correctly? Check your answer down here. To see which one of these diagrams has the field lines drawn correctly, let's just look through each one and see if we can find any flaws with them. These field lines look pretty good. They all point from positive to negative charges. But something odd is happening right here. We notice here that two field lines are actually intersecting. What would that mean if we had a particle right here in this electric field? Well according to this field line, the particle should be pushed this way assuming it's positive. And according to this field line, it should be pushed this way. Now we know that at a given location an electric field can only push on a particle in one direction so this case what's pushing on it in two different directions is just nonsense. We know that this diagram has to be wrong. And in fact anytime we have a field line diagram like this where two of the lines intersect we've done something wrong. So we'll keep that in mind when we're looking at the other diagrams. Now this one looks a little better but it doesn't look like there are any lines that intersect each other so we don't have any contradictions of the field pushing in two different directions at once. But there are still some odd things happening in this diagram though. In particular, imagine a particle right here. If we imagine this particle has a positive charge the field line say that this particle should be pushed in this direction by the electric field. Well that doesn't seem right. This positive charge will be right next to this giant negative charge, which would really pull it in, and since this positive charge over here is relatively small, we would expect this force to be more like that, pointing towards the negative charge. Because this negative charge is so big, we'd expect these lines showing how positive charges will move to bend more towards the negative charge like this. This means this one can't be the right answer either which of course leaves only this answer. And let's just do a check through to make sure everything makes sense here. I don't see any lines intersecting each other so we don't have the problem from this one. And it looks like all the field lines up here bend in towards the giant negative charge like we'd expect them to. Everything looks in order in this electric field line diagram. If you were able to identify this one as the correct diagram, great work. For the next few problems, we're going to be working with what's called a parallel plate capacitor and that's a fancy name but what it really means is that we have two plates here. One on each side here, and we give the left plate a strong positive charge +Q and we give the right plate a strong negative charge -Q. And this difference in charges gives rise to an electric field between the two plates. And I've shown this electric field using field lines here in red. And what's particularly awesome about the electric field between two parallel plates is that it's actually constant. The electric field here is just as strong as the electric field here and here and here and here. Now it's not completely constant around the edges. We get some bending. But we're just going to stick to the middle of the plates where the field is constant and ignore these edge effects. Now let's imagine that I put a proton here right next to this left plate. Now since the proton has a positive charge it should follow along the field lines and move in this direction. And since this field is constant, this proton should move with a constant acceleration. All right. Now can you tell me if the separation between the two plates is d, how long will it take this proton to move from this side of the parallel plate over to this side? Here's some values you'll need to solve the problem. The electric field strength is 1000 N/C. The plate separation is 1 cm. And here's the mass of the proton and the charge of the proton. You can put your answer down here and give your answer in nanoseconds, which corresponds to 10⁻⁹ normal seconds--good luck. The first thing I want to do when I solve this problem is to solve for the acceleration of the proton in this electric field. We know that the force on the proton is equal to the strength of the electric field E times its charge q. And we also know that the force is equal to the mass times acceleration. We get this equation here. And solving for a, I get that the acceleration is equal to the electric field strength times the charge of the proton over the proton's mass--awesome. Now that I have the acceleration, this problem just becomes a kinematics problem. I chose to use this kinematics equation here and we know that the proton has no initial velocity so this term drops out, and now I just want to solve for the time here. And doing some algebra here, I find that the time it takes for the proton to move from here to here is equal to the square root of 2 times the separation between the plates d over the acceleration a. And I know what the acceleration is. We just found it up here. Plugging in that value for acceleration, I get this equation for the time here. And putting in my numbers, I find that the time it takes for the proton to move from left to the right side of the plate is equal to 4.57x10⁻⁷ seconds, which is equal to 457 ns--good work. For our second parallel plate problem, we're going to try and write a potential energy equation for some particle in the middle of this electric field here. Let's imagine that we have some particle with a charge q in the middle of our electric field and this particle is a distance of x away from this negative plate over here. For this problem, you can assume that the value of q is positive so this particle will move to the right but it turns out when we get our final answer that this choice won't actually matter. All right--so now we want to find out what the potential energy is for this charged particle in the middle of the field and just so we're all on the same page I'm going to define potential energy to be 0 right here at the negative plate. You'll remember that we can actually define potential energy to be 0 wherever we want so I could've done it over here or even over here. But just for convenience, I'm going to choose this point to be my potential energy equals zero point. All right, so now can you tell me what's the formula for finding the potential energy of this particle in this electric field? Now in your answer, you can use the distance between the two plates d, the distance the particle is away from the negative plate x, the charge of the particle q, the mass of the particle m, and the strength of this electric field E. In your formula, you can use any of these variables but you should only have to use three of them. All right. Put your answer here and good luck. Before we address the question of what the potential energy is let's just take a moment and imagine what's going to happen when we release this charge q. Well, if this charge is positive, it's going to accelerate in this direction. If this particle accelerates, it's going to gain kinetic energy. And we know from Unit 4 that the change in kinetic energy of the particle is equal to the work done on the particle. And what's this work equal to? Well the work is just the force that the electric field is applying on the charge over the distance that it's being applied over. This means that if the charge moves all the way over to the negative plate, then the work done by the field will equal the force applied by the field times that distance x. And what's this force equal to? Well we know that's just equal to this electric field strength times the charge of the particle. All right so putting this together, we found that the change in kinetic energy is equal to the electric field strength times the charge of the particle times the distance it moves through x. All right. Now let's use conservation of energy to relate this change in kinetic energy to a change in potential energy. In this case because there aren't any extra forces doing any work on the charge only the field is doing the work we know that the change in kinetic energy is in fact exactly equal to the change in potential energy. And the change in potential energy is just equal to the difference between the original potential energy and the final potential energy. We know that if the charge moves all the way to the negative plate, it has 0 potential energy so we can cancel out this term, which leaves us that the change in kinetic energy is exactly equal to the original potential energy. We know that the change in kinetic energy is equal to Eqx so this gives us that the original potential energy was equal the Eqx. This is our nice formula for the potential energy of a charge in a constant electric field. And you might notice something really cool about this. This formula is actually effectively the same as our gravitational formula mgh. In this equation, the gravitational field strength is replaced with the electric field strength. And the mass of the particle is replaced with the charge of the particle and the distance away from the negative plate is essentially the same as the height above the ground. What we see here is that this formula is completely analogous to our gravitational potential energy formula, which is awesome. All right. If you are able to get this equation, great job. For this problem, we're going to be talking about cathode ray tubes. And it may or may not be a name that means something to you depending on how old you are. Cathode ray tubes used to be main way we got televisions to work before we had LED, LCD, and plasma televisions. And let's investigate how exactly these tubes work. So on one end of the tube we have an electron here, and we give it some really large initial velocity V₀ such that it shoots across this tube towards this green screen over here. And when this electron hits the screen over here, it temporary causes it to light up producing a dot on the screen. Now you can imagine if we were able to draw lots of these dots on the screen we could use it to draw images like this one here. Well in order for us to be able to make dots on other parts of the screen, we have to bend the path of the electron so it doesn't just go on a straight line. And how can we bend the path of an electron? Well one easy way is with an electric field. And we saw on the previous two questions that a great way to produce a nice constant magnetic field is to have two parallel plates like these two. When this negatively charged electron moves into this electric field, it'll get pulled towards the positive plate directing it to this part of the screen. And you could imagine if we wanted the electron to go down here, we just switch the charges so the negative charges were up here and the positive charges were down here. This means we can control what part of the screen the electron hits and therefore lights up just by changing the strength and direction of this electric field here. For this problem you're going to tell me how strong I should make this electric field such that this electron gets bent a distance away from the center from its straight line path of Δy. You should assume that the electron is in the magnetic field for a total distance of 0.5 m and we want the deviation away from the center of Δy to be equal to 0.1 m. We'll also assume that the electron enters the field with an initial velocity of 1x10⁷ m/s. You will also need the charge and mass of the electron, which I have provided here. Now a few quick notes. You'll notice that the speed here is really large and the super student among you might notice that it's actually getting close to being the speed of light. If you heard anything about the theory of relativity, you might know that as we get close to the speed of light strange things start to happen. We won't worry about any of that in this problem now. Just assume that everything behaves as we're used to. Also note that even though I've drawn my field line so the arrows are pointing down the electron is going to bend up because it has a negative charge and we always draw the field lines in the direction a positive charge will move. All right--so you can put your answer for the strength of the electric field right here and put it in units of N/C--all right, good luck. All right. So a good first step for solving this problem is to focus on trying to solve for the time Δt that the electron spends in this electric field here. I'm going to use this kinematics equation here. And you notice that I've just applied it to x and not to y. We'll do the y equation in a second. And the direction I'm calling x is this direction here. I'm going to call this direction y. The field is only acting in the y direction so I know there's not going to be any x acceleration so this term drops out. And this gives us that the time the electron spends in the field is equal to the length of the field divided by the speed the electron enters the field with. All right. So now I'm going to use this kinematics equation to work in the y direction. And we know that initially the electron enters with only the velocity in the x direction. This term goes to 0. We know from our earlier parallel plate problems that the acceleration along the direction of the field is going to be equal to the strength of the field E times the charge on the electron divided by the electron's mass. And this gives us a nice equation for our displacement in the y direction. Now we can substitute in our value of Δt into this equation, which gives us this equation here. And doing some algebra, I can solve for the electric field strength E in terms of the all these other variables. Now this looks quite messy but I actually know all these values. I know the mass of the electron. I know its charge. And I know the x and y distances and our initial speed. And plugging in all those values, I get that the electric field strength should be 455 N/C. That means that if the electric field here is 455 N/C, we should get this kind of bending and hit this part of the screen. We had so much fun with pendulums and simple harmonic motion in Unit 5 that we decided to bring them back for Unit 6. For this problem we're going to imagine we have a pendulum here. And this time it's not gravity pulling on the pendulum. It's an electric field. The ball here at the end of the pendulum has some positive charge q, which causes it to interact with the electric field in a way very similar to the gravitational field we saw before. And just to make our lives easier, we're going to assume that this electric field is constant just like we were looking at in those parallel plate problems. All right--so my question to you is, how was replacing the gravitational field with this electric field going to affect the behavior of our pendulum? Well it turns out that even with an electric field instead of a gravitational field, the pendulum will still have simple harmonic motion and if this pendulum is in simple harmonic motion that means it has some period t. Given that the length of the pendulum is 0.75 m, that the mass of the ball on the end is 0.02 kg, the electric field has a constant strength of 10 N/C, and the charge of the ball on the end is 0.01 C, can you tell me what the period of this simple harmonic oscillation is going to be? Put your answer here in seconds. Keep in mind when you're doing this problem that just like with a normal pendulum this approximation that it's simple harmonic motion is actually only true for small angle θ. And that's the same case here. When you're working on this problem you can safely assume that we're only dealing with small values of θ--all right, good luck. Remember from last unit, it took us quite a bit of effort to figure out what the period of a pendulum is. And we don't really want to have to repeat all that same work here with the electric field. Let's see if there are any tricks we can do here to make this problem look more like the problem we've already solved, so we don't have to redo all of the work we've already done. So in the last unit, we found that the period of a pendulum is equal to 2π times the square root of the length of the pendulum over g and this seems all well and good. Except, we don't know what g is here. Now, it's tempting here to say, well, this is gravitational field strength so because we're dealing with an electric field, we should just replace this with the electric field strength but this turns out to be a wrong assumption and let's see why. In the case with gravity, we got that the force was equal to -mg and we have the fortunate coincidence that this m here cancelled out with the m and F=ma which just left the g. In this case; however, we have that force is equal to the negative of the electric field strength times the charge q and there's no mass here, so the mass isn't get to cancel with that m in F=ma. Fortunately, we're not out of tricks just yet though, so the fact that I don't have an m here poses somewhat of a problem, but it turns out I can just make an m up here out of nowhere. If I multiplied this term by m and also divide it by m, I haven't actually done anything to change this side of the equation because I've just multiplied it by 1, but now you'll notice that I have an m to cancel, which would just leave Eq/m, so make that idea a little bit less confusing, I can actually call this entire part of this side ge for the electric version of g and then my equation will look just like the equation F=-mg, except the g is slightly different. But because this equation has the exact same form as this equation, both of these equations must have the exact same solution. This means that we can go to our period equation here and just replace g here with ge, and we know that this will be the period of this pendulum. Plugging in our value for ge here, we get that the period is equal to 2π times the square root of the mass of above times the length of the pendulum over the electric field strength times the charge q. And plugging in all my values for all of these variables, I get that the period of the pendulum swing is 2.12 seconds. Great job. In this unit, we've been focusing primarily on what's called the electrostatic force which is the force that makes different charges come together and like charges go apart from each other. And you may be wondering yourself, how does this electrostatic force compare to our old favorite force, gravity. In this problem, we're going to work out which of those two forces, the electrostatic force, which I've called Fe here, and the force of gravity which I'm calling Fg here, reign supreme. Let's imagine that we have two positively charged particles here, and each one of these charges has a positive charge of 1 Coulomb. Let's also assume that their masses are the same value. We know from this unit that because both of these particles have positive charges, the electric force will push them apart from each other. But because both of these particles have nonzero mass, gravity will try and pull them back together. For this problem, your goal is to figure out what the mass of these two particles has to be such that the gravitational force and the electric force are perfectly balanced out so that these particles, when released, will not move. They'll just stand at their current positions. Now in order for you to figure this out, I'm going to have to give you a little bit of extra information. In problem set4, we learned Newton's Law for universal gravitation. That the force of gravity is equal to this constant G times the mass of the two particles divided by the distance between them squared and it turns out that for charged particles, we have almost an identical law. This equation here which we called Coulomb's Law says that the electric force between two charged particles is equal to some constant K times the charge of both of those particles divided by the distance between them squared. Now, I didn't include any information about which direction this force is going in here, but you can figure out what the direction of the force is going to be just by comparing the charges of the two particles. If they're both the same, they'll push away from each other and if they're both different, then they'll pull towards each other. Now I hope you find it as awesome as I do that these equations for the gravitational force and electrostatic force ended up being almost exactly the same. This seems to indicate that there's something fundamental about physics underlying both of these two equations and I encourage you to discuss this idea more on the forms. All right, so now that you know the equations for both of the forces we're concerned about in this problem, you're ready to try and balance them out. All right, so given these two values of K and G, can you tell me what the mass of these two particles have to be such that the forces balance each other out perfectly? Put your answer here and use scientific notations. Put the decimal part up here and the exponent over here. Good luck. All right, so both of these forces are going to perfectly balance each other out. We know that the electric force is going to exactly equal to gravitational force, and we know the formulas for both of these forces, so we can put those in, and you'll see that the distance between the two particles immediately cancels out, and the charges for both of our particles are both 1 coulomb, so we know that this product of charges is just going to be equal to one, so I'm just going to cross that out, and since both of these two particles have the same mass, we know that the product m₁m₂ here is just equal to m². This gives us the equation K=Gm², and solving for m here, we find that the mass has to be equal to the √K/G which plugging our known values for these two constants, we get that the mass has to be 1.16*10¹⁰ kg and that is a really large mass. To give you something to compare this to, this is about twice the mass of one of the Egyptian pyramids and that's just if our particles have a charge of 1 Coulomb. To balance out the electric force between two particles with a relatively small charge, we need a giant mass, and this tells us one of two things, either that the gravitational force is really, really, really weak in comparison to the electric force or most of the masses we deal with in everyday life are really, really, really small. Either way, it helps us put these two forces in perspective. For this next problem, we're going to be once again working with a nice constant electric field and let's imagine that we put two charges in this field, one positive charge and one negative charge, and we align these two charges such that if you draw a line between the two of them, this line is perpendicular to the field lines. We know that there are two forces acting on each of these particles. There is the electrostatic force trying to pull them together and there is the force from the electric field which for this negative charge is going to be pushing it down this way and for this positive charge is going to be pushing it upwards this way. Let's say that we once find the net force acting on this positive charge, it makes this angle θ₁ with the horizontal here and when we find the net force acting on this negative charge particle, it turns out to make this nice angle θ₂ with the horizontal. Given only these two angles, can you tell me what the ratio between these two charges has to be? What is the charge of the positively charged particle divided by the charge of the negatively charged particle? Put your answer here. Let's start by focusing on this positively charged particle. If it is positively charged particle, we know there are two forces acting on it. There is this horizontal force pulling it towards the negative charge and there's this vertical force pulling it along the electric field and we know that when we add this two vectors together, we get a net force vector that makes this angle θ1 with the horizontal. And using our knowledge of trigonometry, we can conclude that the tangent of this angle θ1 must be equal to the force caused by the electric field divided by the force pulling the positive charge towards the negative charge and it turns out, I can write a similar equation for the negatively charged particle. Now I'm going to take this two equations and divide this equation by this equation and doing that division, I get this equation here. Now, in order to clean things up a bit here, we need to make one key observation. We know from Newton's Third Law that when this positive charge pulls on this negative charge that the negative charge pulls back on the positive charge with an identical force. This means that this horizontal forces must be exactly the same. We can actually cancel out these two forces terms here. This gives us that the ratio of the tangents between the two angles is equal to the ratio between the forces the two particles feel from the electric field, and we can always write the forces the particles feel from our electric field as just the electric field's strength times the charge on those particles. And we see here that the electric field strength will cancel leaving just the ratio of the two charges. This means that the ratio of the charges on the two particles is exactly equal to the ratio of the tangents of the angles that the net force vectors make with the horizontal. That's pretty cool and pointing in my known values for this angles here, I can calculate the ratio of these two tangents. In this case, we got the ratio between these two charges is about equal to nine. If you're able to get this, great work. For this challenge problem, imagine that we have three charges here and they're arrange in this equilateral triangle shape so the distance between any of the two charges is the same. This also means that this angles here are all equal to 60 degrees. All right--so it turns out that when you calculate the net force acting on each one of these charges, you get the following results that for this particle the net force is straight down and for this particle the net force points at this angle 23.41 degrees with this horizontal line here. Using this information alone, can you tell me what the charges for this particle and this particle in terms of the charge on this particle q. To clarify, if you think this particle here has a charge five times greater than this one, but has the opposite sign, you'd say that this particle has a charge of -5q. All right. Good luck solving this problem and please feel free to discuss it in the forum.