Welcome to Intro to Psychology. I'm Lauren. I'm Susan. And I'm Greg. We're your instructors for this course. We're going to take you on your journey through psychology. We'll go over different areas of psychology and how different psychologists examine and explain thought and behavior. We are all very different. We like different things. We think differently. We even react differently. So for instance, I have something here that might create different reactions in people. Ooh. Look at this guy. My snake Tickles. I've come to really enjoy him. He's a nice snake. I wouldn't mind holding Tickles or touching him but I certainly wouldn't want him as a pet. Lauren? No, no, I don't do snakes. You don't do snakes. No. I don't do snakes. The perfect example of how people react differently to different situations. So, there's many different areas of psychology, for instance, personality psychologists would look at what's going on here and try to really understand the individual differences in the fear and why I'm not really afraid, you're fine and she's more or less terrified. behavioral Psychologists might look at an individual's learning history. So, for example I was exposed to a lot of snakes when I was growing up. So, perhaps I've learned that snakes aren't dangerous for me. And a Social Psychologist may look at how other people's behavior influences our own. So, for example, looking at other people's reactions may influence our own reactions. A biological psychologist, perhaps, may look at Lauren's fright response in terms of increase in heart rate, or even sweating. And a neuroscientist. They may look at the areas of the brain that are activated during the fear response, such as the amygdala. But for now, I think it's time for Tickles to head home. Even though this example exploited my fear of snakes. Thanks a lot Greg. It was a really effective tool for Susan and Greg to use to show you just how diverse psychology can be. Now psychology is defined as a study of thought and behavior and is an amazing way to make sense of our world Other than phobias, what are two areas of human behavior that you're curious about? This could be something like completing the sentence: why do people blink? There's no right or wrong answer here. Psychology can tap into your interests in many different ways. Have you ever wondered why people lie? Or what is some people love sex and others not so much? Why does some people kill people, but others will risk their lives to save the life of a stranger? Why is some people outgoing? And why is some people shy? Why is that you salivate at the smell of your favorite food? And really, why is it that we can remember random childhood life events, but we can't remember what we had for breakfast this morning? Well these are just a few of the questions that psychologists have asked and provided answers to over the years. Psychology is so much more than a therapist sitting on a couch, talking to a person. It's the real science behind understanding people and their thoughts and behaviors. It's important to know that the field has two main areas. There's the practice side, and the research side. The practice side focuses on applying the knowledge we gain from research in everyday life. For example, diagnosing and treating thought, and behavioral problems, or helping businesses operate more effectively. Or even to get your children to behave properly. The research side focuses on furthering our knowledge and understanding of how people behave and think. So, let me ask you this. What do you think being a psychologist allows you to do? Go ahead and check all that apply. Each of these options is a possibility because what a psychologist does depends on the type of psychologist he or she is. In fact, there are over 25 different sub-fields of psychology. So now that you know that there are many types of psychology, which options would you consider not to be a real subfield of psychology? Choose 2. Don't worry if you don't know. We'll talk about them after. Canine psychology and automobile traffic psychology are not real subfields of psychology. Even though some of us might think we need a traffic psychologist when we're stuck in traffic for hours and going crazy, it's not a real subfield. Neither is canine psychology, although there are psychologists who primarily use animals in their research. And behavioral psychology has been used to teach animals how to do amazing things. For example, did you know that rats can detect landmines through smell? Or that dolphins can locate underwater mines and protect boats? Psychologists can learn a lot from animals through research. And psychological methods can be used to teach animals how to help and work with humans. One type of psychology is Industrial and Organizational Psychology, or IO Psychology for short. IO Psychology is an applied science that involves understanding real world, rather than laboratory behavior. Given the name Industrial and Organizational Psychology, in what area do you think IO Psychology is applied? Meaning what part of your life do you think would IO Psychology be applied to? Type your answer here. Don't worry if you don't know the correct answer. Just guess. If you guessed anything that involved a work setting, so industrial plants or a business office, you were right. because industrial and organizational psychology is the application of psychological concepts and questions to the work setting. Industrial and organizational psychology focuses on two distinct sets of problems. The industrial side involves matching employees to their job and using psychological principles to select employees and evaluate job performance. The industrial side of IO psychology is sometimes referred to as personnel psychology. The organizational side focuses on making workers more productive. In addition, they examine how management styles and environment influence motivation, satisfaction and productivity. IO psychology is one of the fastest growing subdisciplines in psychology. I also wanted to talk about health psychology. Health psychology examines the role psychological factors play in our health. For example they'll ask questions like this, does stress, a psychological factor, affect our health? What do you think, yes or no? The answer is yes, it does. But we're going to get into this later in our lesson on stress and health. In this course, we will focus on major areas of psychology, such as cognitive, behavioral, developmental, neurological and biological, personality, social, clinical and forensic psychology. The take home message here is that psychology is an incredibly diverse field of study. You might ask, what's the point of all these types of psychology? Well, each sub-field has a different goal and a different method used to achieve these goals. It's like looking at the world through different lenses. Different psychologists will focus on different types of questions. For example, a famous case in New York City from the 1960s reported, that a woman was brutally attacked and ultimately murdered over a 30-minute period of time in an apartment complex. More than 30 people saw or heard this attack, yet only one person called the police. What type of psychologist do you think would explore why almost no one reacted to this crime while it was taking place? Select one. This type of question would be for a social psychologist, because they focus on understanding how other people influence how we think, feel or behave. Or in this case, how we didn't behave. The fact is, essentially, any type of psychologist could examine this case. However, the specific question of why no one reacted when a lot of people saw and heard it would be examined by a social psychologist. Cognitive psychologists usually look at how people perceive things, remember things, how they solve problems and things like that. And a developmental psychologist. We'll look at how thought and behavior changes or remains the same across the lifespan. So it might be confusing, because a clinical psychologist deals with diagnosing mental illness. And in this situation may help to determine if the attacker was mentally stable. But again, this question was focusing on why no one helped. That could also be the case for a forensic psychologist. A forensic psychologist might want to examine the person who committed the crime or the crime itself. Now, the key here is that even though this question was directed towards a social psychologist. A clinical or even a forensic psychologist could also examine this case. But I'm going to send you to Greg to talk a little bit more about forensic psychology. So what kind of questions would a Forensic Psychologist ask? So many of you may be familiar with TV shows like Lie To Me, or the movie and book Silence of the Lambs. These shows depict psychologists who solve crimes, using their knowledge of psychology to narrow in on the criminal cases and solve the case. These are examples of some sexier kinds of things forensic psychologists might ask and do. More often than not, however, they're involved in more mundane things like custody battle disputes, insurance claims, or evaluating witnesses in criminal court cases. So, what type of question do Cognitive Psychologists ask? Can we really multitask? How does our attachment change over our lives? Why does my dog learn to salivate when I open the door to the cabinet? What does an increase in dopamine in my brain do to my mood? Now was the shooter having a psychotic episode or was he competent to stand trial? Choose which one you think psychologists would ask and more than one could be correct. One of the questions that a cognitive psychologist would ask is, can we really multitask? Because that has to do with focus and attention and that's a cognitive or mental activity. Another question that a cognitive psychologist might ask among these is about the dog learning to salivate when the door opens because what's going on here is the dog is learning to associate the door opening with the food. And that's a learning process, and that's also the domain for cognitive psychologists. What's not the domain for cognitive psychologists is how attachment changes over our lives. That's more the question for a developmental psychologist because it has to do with change over time. Another question that would not be one for cognitive psychology would be mood and dopamine. That's the brain and how neurotransmitters affect our behavior. That would be the question for behavioral neuroscience. The shooter, and whether he's having a psychotic episode, and how competent he is to stand trial is more for a forensic psychologist. Because that has to do with his mental state and the legal question of competence. Say you wanted to determine if introverts, or shy people, learn better in quiet environments, and extroverts, or outgoing people, learn better in noisy environments. Which area of psychology would you choose to consult? Clinical, cognitive, behavioral, personality, or developmental? Well, Susan, I would say personality psychologist, because we're looking at introverts and extroverts. And I know that personality psychologists will look at the differences between different personality traits like those two. And I would guess cognitive psychologists too, because I know they're interested in how we learn and solve problems. Am I right? That's right Lauren, good job. This gets us to an important point about psychology, and the fact that we have many different sub-disciplines. As you can see from this example, not one perspective of psychology tells the whole story. We may have to take information from different perspectives to get an accurate and complete description of the situation. Psychology helps us make sense of the world. By using different levels of analysis and different perspectives, we can get a better understanding of why behavior occurs, or in some cases, why it does not. So, now that we've come to a close in this first lesson, we hope you can see that psychology answers all of these questions and more. How deep, rich, and broad psychology is as a discipline. In fact, it's as much about lab coats and children, courtrooms, learning and memory. Our personalities and how other people influences as much as it is about cultures and therapists. So, in the coming lessons, we're going to focus in more detail on some of the kinds of questions that psychologists ask and then attempt to answer. And, in doing so, we hope to stimulate you to ask your own questions about human nature. Who knows? Maybe one day you'll be providing us with answers as a psychologist. Congratulations, you just finished your first lesson. Following the lesson is going to be a problem set, where you answer questions based on what you've learned so far. Now, this is going to be the format for every lesson to come. &gt;&gt; So if you're ready, go back to the problem set for lesson one and answer each question. If you get stuck, go back to the lesson. Or, to the forum, where you can then interact with your peers or with us. &gt;&gt; After you finish a problem set for lesson one, you're ready to move on to lesson two. Where we're going to look at how psychologists conduct experiments to learn more about human thought and behavior. Now it's important for the remainder of the course that you notes while you're watching the lessons. In addition, be sure to check the instructor's note section, which is here, to get other valuable information that's contained in each lesson. And we'll see you in lesson 2. Psychologists use research methods just like biologists and chemists do. The only difference is, our questions are about thought and behavior, and their questions are about things like plants or chemicals. This lesson is really important, because research methods gives us a foundation for the rest of the course. because after all, without research, we wouldn't be able to learn anything new. In this lesson you are going to learn the skills necessary to become a better critical consumer research. Every day in the news there are stories popping up about topics related to psychology. Let's take a look at this one. Here we see that those who media multitask are 70% more likely to experience symptoms of anxiety and depression. Now, can we say that media multitasking causes symptoms of anxiety and depression? No, we cannot. And we can't because this is an example of a correlational study. In this lesson we'll see that the type of research design, dictates whether or not we can say a causal statement. Or whether or not we can say two variables are just related. There are many examples of how the media misrepresents studies. For example, here are some recent headlines based on a real scientific study. Husbands who do more housework may have less sex. Want to have more sex? Men stop doing chores. Men not doing chores. Having a lot of sex. These media headlines are based on a correlational study that measures the time and type of chores, masculine and feminine and the amount of sexual encounters. In this study, they found that couples who split the type of household chore, masculine versus feminine reported five sexual encounters per month. However, when men completed approximately 17 hours of masculine type chores and women completed approximately 35 hours of feminine type chores they had nearly two more sexual encounters per month. Chores or types of chores, masculine versus feminine. And sexual encounters in this example. A variable is any characteristic that can vary across individuals or across time within the same individuals. And this is a correlational study. Because we are not manipulating any variables. Instead we are just simply observing a mathematical relationship between two variables. In this case chores, the number and type, masculine versus feminine and the amount of sexual encounters. An important distinction in correlational studies is that they do not manipulate any variables. Instead we're just measuring to see whether the variables are related. This differs from experimental studies, wherein researchers actually manipulated independent variable; and measure the effect on the dependent variable. We will cover these types of studies, after looking at correlations. The results of correlational studies give us what is called a correlation coefficient. Correlations tell us two things, the strength of the relationship as well as the direction of the relationship. Here, we have our X variable, which is our predictor variable. And our Y variable, which is our criterion variable, or what is to be explained. In our study the X variable was the number and type of chores, whereas the Y variable was the number of sexual encounters. For the strength of relationship, we can have a positive relationship. We can also have a negative relationship. Here, in a negative correlation, as scores increase on the X variable, they decrease on the Y variable. In a positive correlationship, as scores increase on the X variable they also increase on the Y variable. This would be an example of a perfect positive correlation: plus 1. Here, we have an example of a perfect negative correlation: minus 1. In the middle, we can see that our data points are randomly distributed. This would indicate no relationship. In our example, there would be no relationship between the number of sexual encounters and the type of chores. Here, we see a moderate positive correlation. Here, we see a moderate negative correlation. Again strength and direction of relationships are explained in correlational studies. Which of these scatter plots would show that as the number of masculine chores increase, the number of sexual episodes increase? In this case, we would say there was a positive correlation. As the number of chores increased, so did the number of sexual encounters. This would be a positive correlation. So, which of these would represent a negative .4 correlation? If you chose this graph you're correct. As scores increase on the x-axis, they decrease on the y-axis. This scattered plot would indicate no relationship. Here we would have a positive relationship. As scores increase on x they also increase on y. Note, the .4. It's not as we had a perfect correlation. Instead, we have a moderate relationship. What would we say about the strength of a correlation that is 0.4, regardless of whether it is positive or negative. It is a strong, perfect, correlation. It demonstrates no correlation. Or it is a moderate correlation? Here, it is a moderate correlation. Remember, to have a perfect strong correlation be closer to plus one. A perfect negative correlation negative one, or 0.4 indicates moderate correlation. Now that you know about correlations, let's take a look at this question. Can we say that doing fewer chores causes more sexual encounters? No, we cannot say that doing fewer chores causes more sexual encounters. Remember this is a correlational study. We can say that these two variables, chores and sexual encounters are related or they're associated, but we cannot say that one causes the other. Try this example. A researcher looked at the number of ice cream cones consumed and the number of drowning deaths. And they found that as the number of ice cream cones increased, so did the number of drowning deaths. Name the two variables being measured in the study. Is it the number of ice cream cones consumed, swimming capability, the researcher, the number of drowning deaths, or the researcher qualifications? Just select two. The two variables being measured here are the number of ice cream cones and the number of drowning deaths. Why don't you try this fill in the blank sentence to tell me what kind of correlation this is? This study is a blank correlation because as the number of ice cream cones consumed increases, the number of drowning deaths blank. This is a positive correlation because as the number of ice cream cones consumed increases, the number of drowning deaths also increases. Does this mean that eating ice cream cones causes drowning deaths? No, eating ice cream cones does not cause drowning deaths. We can only say that there's a relationship between the two, but not necessarily that one causes the other. In our ice cream cones and drowning deaths example, what other factors do you think could have contributed to the number of drowning deaths and the number of ice cream cones consumed? Could it be the location of where the study took place? Could it be the number of people swimming during the study? Could it be the climate of where the study took place? Or could it be the overall population of where the study took place? Chose as many or as few of these as you would like. All of these options could contribute to the reason why drowning deaths and ice cream cone consumptions are related. These are what we call confounding variables, because they can't be separated from what's being measured. Well in fact, there's many variables that can influence the number of drowning deaths. So I can swim here because I'm in a city where it's warm and near the ocean. So location and climate can both influence the number of drowning deaths. But they can also influence the number of ice cream cones people eat. In fact, there's a ton of reasons why ice cream cone consumption can be related to drowning death. But this correlation does not imply causation. So, how can we determine whether one thing causes the other? We have to do what's called an experimental study. So, why don't we head back to my office and see if we can come up with a good experiment to do? At the heart of every experiment there's a good question. And these questions come from observation. I've been observing my co-workers here at Audacity, drink coffee every single morning right when they come in. I want to know why. So, I think there might be a good experiment there. I'm going to wait here until somebody comes, so that I can figure out what's going on. We've got someone. Good morning, Andy. &gt;&gt; Good morning, Lauren. &gt;&gt; How are you? &gt;&gt; fine. &gt;&gt; I see you're making coffee. You drink a lot of coffee. Why is that? &gt;&gt; it makes me more effective in the morning, I work better and faster I guess. &gt;&gt; Are you saying that it decreases your reaction time? &gt;&gt; No, I didn't say that, but I guess yeah, I guess it probably increases my reaction time. &gt;&gt; You mean decreases. Do you want me to stop asking questions this early in the morning? &gt;&gt; That would be, that would be fine. &gt;&gt; Well, thank you, Andy. I think I have an idea for a good experiment. I'll see you later. We want to measure the effect of caffeine on reaction time in Udacity employees. There are many ways we can do this. But which of the following do you think is best? Should we find employees who've already had a varying amount of caffeine and measure their reaction time and see if it changes between them? Should we give caffeine in varying amounts to different groups of employees and then measure their reaction times. Should we ask people who have already had caffeine how they feel their reaction times have been affected? Pick which one you think is best. Don't worry if you don't know the answer just yet, but take a second and try to think about it. The best way to do this would be to give caffeine in varying amounts to different groups of employees. Then measure their reaction time. The first option and the third option are both correlational studies. We don't want to use those if we want to see if caffeine effects reaction time. So look at this last one. This one uses what we call a self report measure. We're going to talk more about that later, but it's not a very good way to measure reaction time. The second option is what we call an experimental study. Hidden in this one sentence are aspects that are universal to all experimental studies we do in psychology. Let's start with caffeine in varying amounts. Every experiment we do, we have to manipulate or change something or else we cannot make a causal statement from our result. So whatever it is that we manipulate or change is our independent variable. So in this case caffeine is our independent variable or iv for short because we're changing the amount of caffeine each group gets. An easy way to remember this is investigator starts with an i. An independent variable also tarts with an i and it's the investigator that manipulates the independent variable. And we measure the effect of our independent variable on the dependent variable. The dependent variable in our experiment is reaction time because a dependent variable is what we measure. We need to measure how the dependent variable responds or changes to the independent variable. So how does reaction time change when we manipulate caffeine? In order to make a causal statement, we need to make sure that the iv or the independent variable is what causes the change in the dependent variable. So in our case, we need to know that caffeine is what actually causes the change in reaction time. Say I'm interested in finding out if giving my coworkers high fives makes them happier. I'll set up an experiment. I'll give half of them high fives and the other half no high fives. Then as my measure of happiness, I'll see which group smiles more. So for my high five example, I had to come up with a hypothesis, which is like an if-then statement. It's a proposed explanation for a phenomenon. So I think that if I give my co-workers high fives then they will be happier. So I gave one group high fives. That was my experimental group and then I gave the other group no high fives, that was my control group. Then I counted the number of smiles front he people one act group. So what is the independent variable in this study? Is it high fives, is it happiness, or is it my co workers? Select which one you think is the independent variable... The correct answer is High fives because high fives were manipulated. One group got them, the other group did not. Now I just wanted to add a quick note about hypotheses and theories. The hypothesis is a testable question. It's like an if then statement. For example, if someone drinks caffeine, then their reaction time will decrease. A theory, on the other hand, is a well substantiated and unifying explanation for a set of proven hypotheses. So if you take all of the research in one area, you put it together, you come up with a theory. Now theories can change with developing research. But in general, a theory is our current view of a topic. Here we would say that there are two levels of the IV, or independent variable. Giving high fives and no high fives. It's important to remember that I'm treating the two groups exactly the same way. The only difference is one is getting high fives. And the other is not, so I'm only manipulating the independent variable. So, now that we know what the independent variable is, what is the dependent variable? My coworkers, happiness, or high fives? Select the one you think is a dependent variable. The correct answer is happiness. That is our dependent variable. Because happiness is what we're measuring by using smiles which is how we are operationalizing our construct happiness. Happiness is our construct. A construct is a psychological concept that we can't necessarily see or touch and it has to be measured indirectly. And that's why we come up with an operational definition. We have to find a way to measure happiness. So we operationalize happiness with the number of smiles. That just means when someone smiles we interpret it as happiness. In our high fives and smiles study, measuring smiles was an objective measure. That is, it's something that we can actually see and measure. However, we could have also asked the fellow Udacians to rate their level of happiness when I gave them a high five. In asking them to rate their happiness, we use a self-report measure. And, this is a subjective measure. Now, I want to have Susan here give you more examples of different objective and subject measures. Another type of objective measure is a physiological response. Heart rate is one example of a physiological response, sweating is another physiological measure. Physiological measures are also objective because we can quantify those responses. For the heart rate, we can use pulse to determine heart rate. Sweating, we can measure temperature and we can also measure the galvanic skin response. One problem with self-report measures is that we can't be sure they're completely accurate. But that is the only we can get that information is to ask the participant. Think that to Lorens reaction who tickles the snake. We could use different psychological measures to assess her response. We can use an objective measure meaning we could watch her run away. We could also look at her nervous laughter and that would be an objective measure. We could also ask self report. Hey Loren, how did you feel when you saw that snake. A physiological objective measure. We could have measured her heart rate, which would have increased due to her fear response. We could have also measured her sweating. Most psychological experiments try to get both objective and subjective measures. Now that you've learned the difference between objective and subjective measures, let's see if you can identify some examples. Participants reported how often they watched television per week. Researchers measured the number of hours children watched television per week. College students reported the number of hours they studied per week. Researchers measured the heart rate of students watching a horror movie. Researches measured the number of pounds students lost after running three times a week for one month. For each of the examples given, check whether you think it is an objective measure or a subjective measure. In our first example, participants reported how often they watched television. This is subjective; we're relying on their input. However, in the next example, we actually had people go in and measure the number hours they watched. That would be objective. Again, with our third example, college students reporting the number of hours they studied, we can't verify that so that would be subjective. They self-reported. We can however, objectively measure the heart rate of students watching a horror movie. Finally, measuring the number of pounds students lost after running three times a week, again, would be an objective measure. Now that we have an idea about the different variables involved in experimental studies, let's go back to our study about caffeine and reaction time. We're going to vary the amount of our independent variable, which was caffeine, that we give to different participants. That brings us to the different groups, part of our sentence. Say we're going to use two groups. One group gets caffeine. And one group does not get caffeine. Why do you think it's important that we have these two groups. Is it because we want to get a baseline to compare the caffeine group to? Is it because some people might not want caffeine? Or is having two groups a bad idea and everybody should get caffeine? We need to be able to get a baseline to compare our caffeine group to. In an experimental study, there are two types of groups. There's the experimental group and there's the control group. The control group receives the same exact treatment as the experimental group. The only difference is the independent variable. So, in our case, our control group does not receive caffeine. Our independent variable, but the experimental group does. Now that we have all the participants, how do you think we should assign them into the two different groups? Should we have each participant flip a coin and put them in the experimental group that gets caffeine if their coin lands on heads? And put them in the control group without caffeine if their coin lands on tales? Should one group be males and the other group be females? Should the first half of the participants who show up get caffeine and the second half of the participants who show up not get caffeine? Should the people who normally have caffeine be in the experimental group? And, the people who don't normally have caffeine be in the control group? Select the best option. Flipping a coin is the best option because it's random. So, the logic here is that there's a million different variables that can effect somebody's reaction time. Whether you're old or young, male or female or how much you slept last night. All of these things may or may not influence reaction time, but these aren't the variables we're interested in. By randomly assigning groups, the different groups on average will be similar to each other. They will have about the same number of men and women, young and old, and all different characteristics. With random assignment, we can say that the two groups were equivalent at the start of the study. That way, any changes at the end of the study are most likely due to our independent variable, caffeine. Random assignment helps to eliminate bias. There was a good reason why we didn't want to use the other types of groups, such as male and female. Or the first half of the participants who showed up got caffeine, and the second half didn't get caffeine. There's something innately different between those two groups. And by using random assignment, we don't have to worry about that. Now let's look at the given caffeine part of the sentence. Select the best way to administer the caffeine to participants. Should we give group one coffee, and then group two no coffee? Should we give group one coffee, and group two water? Or, should we give group one coffee, and group two placibo coffee? So, coffee without caffeine. Select the best option. The best option is the last one. We want to give our experimental group coffee with caffeine, and our control group the placebo coffee, coffee without caffeine. This way, the participants won't know what group they're in, and that'll be part of our single blind study. Using real coffee and then decaf coffee for the placebo is great. This way, participants won't know if they're actually getting caffeine or not. This is perfect for our single-blind study, because we as the researchers, know who is getting what, but the participants don't know. Why is it a good not to tell the participants what group they're in? Is it because they will try to sneak into another group? It reduces bias because they may change how they react if they know if they are or are not getting the independent variable? Or it won't change anything. They should know what group they're in. Choose whatever answer you think is correct. This one is correct because if the participants don't know what group they're in, it will reduce bias. So we decided to do a single blind study for our caffeine and reaction time experiment. So in a single blind study, the researcher knows what group the particpants are in. There's another way that we can reduce bias in a study. And that's by doing double blind study. So in a double blind study, neither the researcher nor the participants know what group they're in. This will further reduce bias by controlling for experimenter expectancy effect. For example, let's say instead looking at caffeine's effect or reaction time, we want to look at the effects of kindness. Well, maybe I as a researcher believe that caffeine does make people more friendly. Well, when I interact with the subjects to rate their kindness, the belief I have may cause me to be more friendly towards them. Which may in turn make the subjects more friendly to me, so my inconsistent treatment between the two groups may result in an unintentional bias. And that can affect the results of my study. So now going back to reaction time, what's the best way to measure it? Should I use a stopwatch? Should I use a computer based time test? Should I, as a researcher, rate reaction time on a scale from one to ten? Or should I have the participants rate their own reaction times? The best option here is to use a computer based time test. Using a computer based test, like this one, to test our reaction time is best because it gives us an objective measure of reaction time. Now objective measures aren't biased by the researcher like a subjective measure can be. For example, if I watch participants then decided to rank their alertness on a scale from one to 10, that I just arbitrarily made up. That wouldn't give us a really accurate reaction time. So now that we've talked about all the elements of a good experimental study, let's put it all together into an experiment. So what we're going to do is begin our experiment the way all psychology experiments do. By getting the informed consent from our participants. Informed consent means that the participant is aware of all the requirements of the study and agrees to participate. Once they've given us consent. We decided we're going to randomly put our participants into groups by flipping a coin to ensure that it's randomly assigned. Because this is a single blind study, we know who's going to be in the control group and we know who's going to be in the experimental group. In the experimental group again, is those who get caffeine. In the control group, they don't get caffeine. Everything other than the independent variable has to be the same in both groups. So, our next step is to measure their reaction time. To do this, we use a reaction time test online. When the screen changes from white to black, the participant has to click. We took the average of five trials from each participant. You can try this test on your own by clicking the link below. Before we talk about our results. If we did find that the experimental group, the one that got caffeine had significantly faster reaction times than the control group. The ones without caffeine. What conclusion can we draw, caffeine causes faster reaction time, caffeine is correlated with reaction times? But we cannot make a causal statement about this relationship. There is no relationship. Select which one you think is best. Because we did an experimental study, we can say that caffeine caused a faster reaction time. So now that we've collected all this data from our reaction times and caffeine test. What do we do with it? How do we actually make sense of what all of these numbers are telling us? Well, that's where Susan's going to come in. Susan's going to tell us about Bell curves, and how results can be normally distributed. Next, Susan's going to talk about how we analyze data. And a little bit about the statistics involved in psychological research. She's going to do this by using the actual data that we collected. Now let's go to Susan. This is a normal distribution, or a bell curve. On the X axis we have the scores. On the Y axis we have frequencies. Frequencies are how often a score occurs. It might help to visualize with something like an IQ. Here The mean IQ is 100. Now we're going to look at deviations. So here we have one standard deviation. For our IQ, one standard deviation above the mean would be 115. 85, however, would be one standard deviation below the mean. We see that 68% of the population will fall between one standard deviation above the mean, one standard deviation below the mean. Next we see that 95% of the population will fall with two standard deviations above the mean or two standard deviations below the mean. Next, we see that 99.7% of the population fall between three standard deviations above the mean and three standard deviations below the mean. We have the 68, 95 and 99.7 rule. That means that 68% of the population is going to fall between one standard eviction below and one standard deviation above the mean. 95% of the population will fall from two standard deviations below two standard deviations above the mean. And 99.7% are going to fall from three standard deviations. Below the mean to three standard deviations above the mean. Here we have our data from our caffeine and reaction time experiment. The caffeine group is called the experimental group and the no-caffeine group is called the placebo or control group. We just mention the mean, which is another statistical tool that we use in psychological experiments. The mean is the average of all scores. So for our caffeine and reaction time experiment we took each individuals reaction time and got an average. So for our experimental group the average or mean score on reaction time was 0.3527 seconds. And for our control or placebo group, our average reaction was 0.5621. So what does this difference mean? We ran another statistical test and we found that the difference between the experimental group and the control group was statistically significant. But what does that mean? It means that it is highly unlikely that the scores we observed were due by chance. So again in this caffeine and reaction study we can say the signicant difference between point three and point five seconds occurred most likely because of the caffeine and not because of some other variable. We've spent our time talking about research methods. But one crucial aspect we did not discuss in detail is ethics and psychology. It's important to know that before any study is conducted, whether it's with humans or animals. It must be approved by a federally mandated committee. For humans, it's the Institutional Review Board. And for animals, the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. All committee members must be trained and certified to serve. Let's talk about the IRB. For humans, two important questions are asked regarding any research proposal. First is, should the study be done at all? Here, committee members are going to look at the risks versus the benefits of participating in that research. If committee members feel that the benefits outweigh the risks, the second question is asked. This is, what constitutes adequate informed consent? Here the experimenters have to tell the participants, exactly every step that they will need to complete throughout the experiment. Another important aspect of ethics in psychology is the right for the participant to leave the experiment at any time without negative consequences. Finally, once a participant has completed the experiment, it's important to debrief that person. Meaning we have to let the person know what the purpose of the study was, and they have the right to ask any questions regarding the study. Some main points to remember about research ethics, are that we don't want to put anybody in harms way. We don't want to deceive anybody, unnecessarily and we must ensure participant's privacy. Research ethics are fundamental in the study of psychology. In fact, ethics are the most important part of psychological research. What would be the most ethical way to study the effects of cocaine with pregnant women? Randomly assign pregnant women to either an experimental or control group and give cocaine to those in the experimental group. And measure the effects on the babies? Find women who used cocaine while they were pregnant and study their babies. Or give cocaine to babies and then measure its effects. So now that we have discussed ethics in psychology, let's play your ethics to the test. Choose which of the three, you think is most ethical. Although the first option of randomly assigning pregnant woman to an experimental group. And giving them cocaine would give us excellent experimental control. We have to remember about ethics and it would be unethical to force woman to take cocaine. It would also be unethical to give cocaine to babies to see what it does. That leaves us with the option of finding women. Who used cocaine while they were pregnant. Then, we can study their babies. That would be most ethical. So in this lesson we've learned about two of the most commonly used methods in psychological science, cor-relational and experimental designs. In correlational studies, two variables are studied such as the amount of housework and the number of sexual encounters. As it turns out these two things were related but remember that correlations tell us only about the strength and direction of the relationship. Not whether one causes the other. And experimental studies, if done correctly, can shed light on whether one variable causes another. But true experiments have to have two conditions met, first, random assignment of participants to either a control or an experimental condition. And if these two conditions are treated exactly the same. Except the experimental group gets the treatment, or the predicted cause, whereas the control group, does not, and serves as a baseline comparison. By giving two groups different amounts of something, we're manipulating a variable. And this leads to the second condition of an experiment. So the second condition of an experiment is manipulation of an independent variable. And an independent variable, we'll remember, is something that the investigator manipulates. So for instance, the amount of caffeine given. The experiment also has a dependent variable, or an outcome variable, in this case, it could be reaction time. So if the amount of caffeine really does have an effect, we can say that our independent variable, or caffeine, is the cause. And the dependent variable, or reaction time, is the effect. And it depends upon the independent variable. So, psychological scientists use these and many other kinds of research methods. But the key is that psychology makes use of the scientific method to answer questions about human nature, human thought, and human behavior. So, psychological scientists can't do whatever they want in their research. They have to do what's ethical and their proposals always have to be approved By an ethics board or an IRB. In this lesson, we're going to learn about this, our brain. And how the different areas of the brain are responsible for different things. And how our brain makes us uniquely human. We're also going to learn about the nervous system and neurotransmitters, such a dopamine or serotonin. And how they all come together to help us do the amazing things that humans can do. &gt;&gt; Everything about who we are. What we think, what we imagine, what we dream and even who we like is a function of our brain and it's activity. Damage to the brain can have some devastating consequences. Too much of some neurotransmitters can cause problems, too few of some can cause problems as well. In this lesson we're going to learn about the delicate balance of the brain and its activity. And it's important important for you to master this material, because we will be discussing the brain throughout the remainder of the course. &gt;&gt; So Susan's right. Now let's start with the basics. Many people know that we inherit genetic information from our parents and this determines things like hair or eye color. But genetics aren't set in stone. Now the environment can change the expression of our genetics. Now to talk more about how our genetics makes us who we are today, I want to bring in Matt, our genetics expert here at Udacity. &gt;&gt; Oh Matt, you brought Spud today. Can I hold him? &gt;&gt; Of course. &gt;&gt; Hi puppy, you're so cute. How old is he? &gt;&gt; Well, my little canine friend here is about two years old, so that's about 14 in human years. &gt;&gt; Oh, and how old are you my human friend? &gt;&gt; well actually I just celebrated my 30th birthday. &gt;&gt; Happy Birthday. &gt;&gt; Thanks, but why do you ask? How old are you? &gt;&gt; About 200,000 years old. &gt;&gt; 200 what, you look good for your age. &gt;&gt; Thank you. What could I say? &gt;&gt; But that's not possible, you can't be that old. &gt;&gt; Well, I know. I'm not 200,000 years old, but modern humans are. You should know that, you're a genetics expert here at Udacity. &gt;&gt; Yeah, yeah I knew that. Yeah, modern humans, homo sapiens have been around for about 200,000 years, but we're not the only kind of humans that's existed on our home planet. &gt;&gt; That's true. Homo habilis was around for 2.5 million years. &gt;&gt; That's right, homo habilis, one of the first primitive forms of human lived almost 2.5 million years ago before going extinct after a million years. In total, they lived almost five times as long as modern humans have been alive today. Actually, let's go look at the timeline and learn a bit more about human evolution. &gt;&gt; I'll go with you, I'm just going to go put Spud down. &gt;&gt; Okay. Focusing in on human evolution, we'll see that modern humans have been around for only about 200,000 years, but we're still going strong. Other human species have been alive for a lot longer, but they're now extinct. Homo neanderthalensis or neanderthals, lived from about 400,000 years ago to about 28,000 years ago. Whereas Homo erectus lived from around 1.8 million years ago to about 300,000 years ago. And Homo habilus lived somewhere around 2.4 to 2.5 million years ago until about 1.4 million years ago. Modern humans also share kinship with other living primates like modern chimpanzees. Based on the names of these species and how long ago they lived. Can you tell me which one do you think is most closely related to modern humans or Homo sapiens? Would it be Homo neanderthals, Homo erectus, Homo habilis or Pan troglodytes or chimps. If you picked Homo Neanderthal, you're correct. Neanderthals lived from about 400,000 years ago and died off only about 28,000 years ago. And we have evidence now that modern humans and Neanderthals interbred for a period of time. Therefore, Homo Neanderthals are our closest relatives. All species with the genus name, Homo, indicates a form of human. And our closest human relatives are technically neanderthals or Homo neanderthalensis, even though they recently went extinct several tens of thousands of years ago. Homo erectus and Homo habilis, our more distant human relatives, but they went extinct a long time ago. It turns out that our closest living relatives are in fact chimpanzees. One of the main ways we know that humans are most closely related to chimps is that a remarkable amount of our genetic information between humans and chimps is the same. An amazing 98%. But those few genetic differences are responsible for the important structural differences, especially with regards to the brain, which is what makes us uniquely human. This change over time is referred to as evolution. And it's achieved through a well-established mechanism of mutation and natural selection. Let's learn a bit more about how natural selection works. Natural Selection, the driving force of evolution, takes a population of organisms, and selects, only for those which are fit enough to survive. For example, after a drought in the Galapagos Islands that leaves tough dry seeds for bird food, only finches with big, durable beaks can crack open and eat the seeds to survive. The rest will die. Thus, those genes that produces the big, durable beaks are naturally selected for and passed down to the next generation. Hopefully allowing their offspring to survive a drought as well. This process of natural selection is responsible for shaping the genetic information and development of every species as they evolve, including humans. Natural selection has caused drastic physical changes in human evolution. Including the ability to walk upright, the development of skin with far less hair, and most importantly, the growth of a very large brain. Of course, the evolution of a larger brain has many benefits. But it also has many costs. So, here's a question, what are some of the physical costs of having a bigger brain? The ability to store decades worth of information. The need for more food or energy. Childbirth becoming more painful because of bigger heads. Or, problem solving skills begin to develop. Go ahead and check any and all that you think apply. Growing bigger brains definitely has its costs, including the need for more food or energy to handle all the extra brain activity. Additionally, bigger brains mean bigger heads, making childbirth far more painful. In humans, this resulted in human beings, being born earlier before the head is so big that it can't pass through the birth canal. Now of course there are benefits to having a big brain like the ability to store more complex information and the ability to think critically. Okay, let's go talk more to Greg about how our brains evolved. Here's a question for you. What is it that makes us most human? Is it our opposable thumbs? Is it walking on two feet? Well, I would argue, it's the brain, its overall size and structure. Now, the brain has not always looked like this. 3 million years ago with the first humans, habilis, it was much smaller. And then, we had erectus, and then we had neandethal, and in the last 200,000 years we've had us, modern humans, or homo sapiens. And the thing that really has changed across these different species is the frontal lobe, right here. It's bigger, it's more complex. And it's the frontal lobes that really do make us human. It's where we think abstractly, it's where we have working memory, think about the past and the future. And, we're creative. And it's that creativity saw first or long ago in the, the cave paintings, and we continue to see, currently, in modern society, to expose of creativity. Art, science, music, dance, and so on. So, I would argue, it's the brain that makes us most human. To understand how our brains develop, we need to understand a bit about how genetic information is used to build them. So, let's bring back Matt, our resident genetics expert. So, Matt, how does your body know how to build you? &gt;&gt; Virtually, every cell in your body, including your brain cells has all the information necessary to build you. Inside every cell resides the genetic construction or DNA that is arranged in 23 pairs of chromosomes. &gt;&gt; Wait, so I know that DNA is the blueprint for making a living thing, but what role do chromosomes play? &gt;&gt; chromosomes are actually long strands of DNA wrapped around proteins. You've probably seen pictures of them before. It's how our cells organize this information structurally. &gt;&gt; so, that's cool, but how does it translate into who I am, or who you are? &gt;&gt; Well, DNA is made up of four building blocks, called nucleotides. Adenine, Thymine, Guanine, and Cytosine. We usually refer to just the letters. A, T, G and C. You have over 3 billion of these letters in a unique sequence that makes up who you are. And your cells use this as a set of instructions to create you. &gt;&gt; Wow, 3 billion sounds like a lot. I wonder how that compares to other living organisms? Which of the following species do you think has the most DNA? Remember, humans have over three billion letters that make up DNA. Don't worry if you don't get this right just take a guess. Is it Bufo bufo, the toad frog, homo sapiens or modern humans, amoeba dobia, a large bacteria, or Gallus gallus, a chicken? Select one. The answer is a large bacteria. Matt's going to tell you why. &gt;&gt; Believe it or not, an Amoeba has more than 66 times more DNA than humans do. While and Amoeba has 200 billion letters, humans only have 3 billion. So as you can see, it's not the amount of DNA that makes a species complex. Otherwise, the Amoeba would be the most complex organism of all. Instead, it matters what the sequence of those letters in your DNA are, because they code very specific instructions. Next, we'll see how that code can be turned into flesh and blood. &gt;&gt; So Matt, you're telling me that we have over 3 billion letters or nucleotides in each one of our cells. But how does this DNA actually make who we are? &gt;&gt; Right, it's a very good question and it's kind of hard to conceive that so much information can fit in such a small space. It's important to recognize that we call the total amount of genetic information your genome. And within everybody's genome, there are segments called genes that code for something, typically proteins. &gt;&gt; Well, what do you mean by coding for proteins though? &gt;&gt; Proteins are a large part of what makes up who we are. So the physical stuff like the, the flesh, the skin, the hair. When you look at another person, who they are is coded for by these genes, which are segments of their genome. Now, genes only make up 2% of the human genome. &gt;&gt; Well, then what's going on with the other 98%? &gt;&gt; Well, that other 98% is still very important. Now, a large part of it we know regulates that 2%. It determines how those genes are turned on and off at the right time, and the right place. And there is also another bit of that 98% that we don't know what's going on yet. And we're actively researching that and learning more every day. So, how do these different sequences result in different traits, like for example you have blue eyes and I have brown? &gt;&gt; Right, so obviously not everyone has the same genetic sequence for every gene, the stuff that codes for us. Now, in the example of eye color, the eye color gene can come in different versions. Now, in genetics, we have a word for this and it's called and allele. So, you could have the sequence that codes for brown eyes and we would call that the brown allele or the brown version. Alternatively, you could have the sequence that codes for blue eyes. We call this the blue allele or the blue version of the gene. Now, if we carry this out in an experiment, like a thought experiment, where you get one brown allele from one parent and another brown allele from another parent, what color eyes do you think the children are going to have? &gt;&gt; Brown. &gt;&gt; Right. They're going to have brown. So, it's pretty simple. We could also do the experiment with the blue alleles. If you get one blue allele from mom and one blue allele from dad, what color eyes do you think you're going to have? &gt;&gt; Blue. &gt;&gt; You're going to have blue. But it gets interesting when we have to figure out what happens in the mixed situation, where you get a brown allele from one parent and a blue allele from another parent. In this case, what color eyes do you think the children are going to have? &gt;&gt; I don't know, why don't you answer this one. So in our case of eye color, where we have a brown allele and a bue allele, it turns out that our brown allele is dominant over our blue allele. And what this means is that it masks the effect of the blue allele so that you can't see it. Alternatively, the blue allele is referred to as recessive, because it's effect is masked when there is a dominant allele present. And we can show that here by putting the blue allele inside the brown allele. Whereas the end product is we can only see the result of the dominant allele. So, in this case, what color eyes do you think the offspring would have? &gt;&gt; Brown, since brown is the dominant allele. &gt;&gt; Exactly. So, do all genes have this dominant and one recessive component? &gt;&gt; It's a great question and the simple answer is no. Genetics is complicated. And we just covered a very basic example of dominance. Complete dominance over another allele. But there are examples where you have semi-dominance and co-dominance. And all kinds of other different factors are important in determining this. But, there are many cases where this simple dominance does hold true. Although the example you just saw about eye color nicely demonstrates the principles of dominant and recessive traits. The particular trait of eye color is not actually as simple as we just explained it. The trait of eye color is actually controlled by multiple genes that affect the outcome. And we call this a polygenic trait. However, there are some traits that are controlled by a single gene in an actual dominant recessive fashion like we just explained. A good example of this, relating to the brain, is a trait called Huntington's Disease. Huntington's disease, is a neurodegenerative disorder that affects muscle coordination and results in cognitive decline and psychiatric problems. Caused by a marked degeneration of brain tissue, that's visible in this picture. Comparing a Huntington's Disease brain on the left to normal brain tissue here on the right. Typically, Huntington's Disease becomes noticeable in mid adult life. So if the allele for Huntington's Disease is dominant. Then which of the following allele combinations would result in someone who actually displays Huntington's Disease? Remember, humans have two copies of every gene. We'll represent the allele for Huntington's Disease with the letters HD and the allele for normal brain function with the abbreviation NORM. Would it be somebody who has two HD alleles. An individual with one HD and one NORM allele or an individual with two NORM alleles. Go ahead and select any and all answers that you think apply. [BLANK_AUDIO] Okay, so we know that the allele for HD, Huntington's Disease, is dominant. And the allele for a normal brain, or NORM, is recessive. And remember, that the recessive allele is masked by the dominant allele when you find them both together. So we know in this situation with two normal alleles, that we're going to have normal brain function. So this will not result in somebody with Huntington's disease. On the other hand, we know that if you have two HD or Huntington's Disease alleles, that you will definitely be affected by Huntington's Disease. But what happens in our mixed group? Well, because our dominate allele, HD masks the effect of the recessive allele, NORM. This individual will also be affected by Huntington's Disease. So the answer is both the first and the second scenario. Genes provide the instructions and thus, the raw materials to make up your cells, tissues and ultimately your whole body. That process of creation, called development, is highly variable from person to person and especially in the brain. Even small differences in how those cells and tissues are made can be responsible for differences in personality, intelligence, moods, and even vulnerability to mental illness. With that in mind, what do you think is the most accurate statement about the connection between genes and behavior? Is it that a few genes regulate most behaviors? A single gene controls a single behavior. Many genes are behind any given behavior. Or, genes have no connection with behavior at all? Go ahead and select the statement that you think is most likely to be true. Well, we already know that our behavior is a result of what goes on in our environment and in our brains. And our brains are essentially created by our DNA. So, we know that our genes have some kind of connection with behavior, so we know that the last one's not right. We also can guess that behaviors are very complex. So, one gene controlling one behavior is probably not what's going on. And even just a few genes regulating all behaviors is probably not likely either. As you might have guessed, many genes are behind any given particular behavior. And as we go through this course, you'll see exactly how complex some of these behaviors can be. Thanks, Matt, for explaining that. So, the key point here is that genes provide raw building material, but development is highly variable. It's often difficult to draw a direct link between genes and behavior. Behavior and psychological traits are often influenced by not only one gene, but by multiple genes working together to produce a trait. We call these traits, polygenic. And the traits influenced by a single gene, we call monogenic. Virtually, every psychological trait or phenomenon, like intelligence or personality, are influenced by many genes. Other traits, such as sexuality or metabolism, are also influenced by multiple genes, so they're polygenic. Some monogenic traits, that are typically influenced by a single gene are lactose intolerance, blood type or even skin color. One area of genetic research that psychologists are really interested in these days is Epigenetics. Simply put, epigenetics is interested in the heritable change caused by the environment. In other words, how the environment affects if our genes are turned on or off. &gt;&gt; That's right, Lauren. Epigenetics is a really new and exciting field of genetics that's teaching us a lot about how the environment influences gene expression. Now it's really important to remember, that this is not mutation. The genetic sequence is unchanged. What's happening is the environment is physically modifying the DNA, in a way that shuts a gene on or off. &gt;&gt; So how does that work? &gt;&gt; Well, you can think about it like chemicals that you take in from your local environment. &gt;&gt; So, by chemicals, do you mean things like diet, or even chemical exposure? &gt;&gt; Sure, like that. Even things like exercise and metabolism can produce these basic factors too. And these factors, or chemicals, physically modify the DNA independent of the genetic sequence, and this will determine whether or not a gene can be read. &gt;&gt; So these modifications make genes a product of both nature. &gt;&gt; Right, the genetic sequence itself. &gt;&gt; And nurture. &gt;&gt; Right, the epigentic or environmental influence. A kind of Epigenetics that interests psychologists involves modifying DNA without changing the sequence. Molecular tags known as Methyl Groups get attached to the DNA and once tagged this can signal for a gene to be turned off. Or silenced regardless of the actual sequence. &gt;&gt; So this is an example in mice that was done a while back and it demonstrates the power of the environment on your genes. Two genetically identical strings of mice from different mothers turned out looking very different because their respective mothers had very different diets. Now one pregnant mother was fed a diet rich in nutrients for things like methyl groups. The other mother was fed a diet lacking nutrients for these methyl groups. The mother who had a diet rich in nutrients for methyl groups gave rise to offspring that were obese and had yellow fur. Whereas the mother that had a diet lacking these nutrients had normal offspring that were non obese with brown fur. Now the amazing thing about both of these mice is that they're genetically identical. The mother who was fed one diet rich in nutrients presumably was able to regulate gene expression in a certain way that gave obese mice with yellow fur. The other mother was fed a different diet which was alternatively effect the gene expression and resulted in a brown furred, non obese mouse. So importantly, these two mice are genetically identical, but they turned out appearance wise very different. We refer to these as having the same genotype. But a slightly different epigenome, and a very different appearance or phenotype. &gt;&gt; So although this is yet to be shown in humans, it demonstrates that genes are not our destiny. Their expression is influenced by what we do and get exposed to from our environment. So lets go to this quiz. Which of the following epigenetic events is most likely to affect your offspring? Is it silencing of genes in skin cells, sperm cells, or intestinal cells? Select one. The answer is sperm cells. Why is that Matt? &gt;&gt; Well, only epigenetic changes in sperm or eggs, the sex cells that make up the next generation, get passed on to your offspring. So changes to the rest of your body, like skin cells or intestinal cells, don't get passed on to your children. Epigenetic tags build up with age and silence particular genes. Often times these tags are removed, allowing expression of previously silenced genes. Even identical twins have different experiences and are exposed to different factors. Think of things like junk food, versus a healthy diet or exercise versus no exercise, smoking or not smoking. So, their epigenome becomes increasingly different with age. This is the reason why one twin may develop cancer, become obese or things like that, while the other one won't. They're genetically identical, but epigenetically, they're different. It's clear that evolution, genetics, and epigenetics come together to make us who we are, and this is truly an amazing process. We could devote an entire course to this, but we just don't have the time in Introduction to Psychology. &gt;&gt; If you've enjoyed the topics we've covered so far in genetics for this course, you should check out our other course, Tales from the Genome. Where we'll delve deeper into the topics of genetics and learn a lot more about DNA, identity, and health. &gt;&gt; Thank you so much for your help on this, Matt. But now, it's time for us to move on to something that's equally as astonishing and that's our brain. It's truly amazing how our brain works and how complex of a system it is. So, we're going to devote some time looking at the different functions and structures of the brain because they're going to come up in future lessons. It may be obvious to say, but all the important areas of psychological study are essentially features of brain activity. So we have to understand a little bit about the brain and how it functions, so that we can understand thought and behavior. That's what we are going to move to next. Let's start with the Nervous System. Now the Nervous System is a network of nerves and cells that carry messages between the brain, spinal cord and parts of the body. So, the first thing we need to know about the Nervous System is that it's divided into two main parts. We have the Central Nervous System, also known as the CNS for short. And we have the Peripheral Nervous System, or PNS for short. The Central Nervous System is comprised of the brain and the spinal cord. And the Peripheral Nervous System is comprised of the nerve cells in the body that are outside of the central nervous system. Here, let's take closer look at the Peripheral Nervous System. It's further divided into the Somatic Nervous System. And this is responsible for transmitting sensory information, such as sight, smell or even touch to the brain and the spinal cord. Or from the brain and the spinal cord to the skeletal muscles. The second half of the Peripheral Nervous System is the autonomic nervous system, as we see here. This system is in charge of our involuntary systems. Such as our internal organs, like our heart or lungs. Or the glands, like our adrenal gland. Which system is responsible for each of these actions? Heartbeat is the autonomic nervous system because that's what controls our involuntary systems, such as heartbeat or breathing. Feeling a soft blanket is our somatic nervous system because it has to do with sensory input. The same goes for smelling paint that's also one of the senses. And digesting food is back to autonomic nervous system because that's another involuntary action. And did you guys know that we can further divide the Autonomic Nervous System into Sympathetic and Parasympathetic? So essentially, the Autonomic Nervous System is our self governing system because what it regulates we have little control over. For example, it controls things like heart rate or blood pressure, even digestion. But I'm going to bring Susan in to ask her a few questions. Because I think that the Sympathetic and Parasympathetic, there's a difference between automatically reving us up or calming us down. &gt;&gt; You're right, Lauren. Under the Autonomic Nervous System, we both our Sympathetic and Parasympathetic. The Sympathetic is often termed our fight or flight response. When we are encountered with stressful or dangerous situations, this is the nervous system that's going to be activated. That is an opposite for the Parasympathetic. Here we talk about the normally relaxed state. So, if you are relaxing, digesting your food, this would be our Parasympathetic. However, if there is a stressful response, the Sympathetic Nervous System will automatically be activated. Here we'll see that we will no longer have blood going to our gut to digest our food. Instead that blood is going to go to our muscles, which will allow us to fight or to flee. It is important to note however, that the Sympathetic Nervous System cannot be activated indefinitely. There will be a time in which it has to rest, so we can replenish the neurotransmitters that have been released during this fight or flight response. We'll talk about neurotransmitters shortly. Juanita was enjoying a relaxing walk on the beach when she suddenly encountered a large dog which startled her. Her heart rate increased. Her pupils dilated. These responses are due to activation of which nervous system? If you chose sympathetic nervous system, you are correct. Remember the sympathetic nervous system is our fight or flight response. That would increase the heart rate. It would also dilate the pupils. The dog ran away and a few minutes later Juanita's heart rate returned to normal and her pupils were no longer dilated. Which nervous system is responsible for these changes? If you said parasympathetic you are correct. Parasympathetic returns us to our normal resting state. So back here at the nervous system diagram, when I saw tickles, that was my sympathetic nervous system activating, right? &gt;&gt; Correct. Tickles was a stressful stimulus for you. It activated your sympathetic nervous system, your heart rate increased and more importantly you were ready to fight or what you did, flee. It's the activation of the sympathetic nervous system that allows us to flee or fight in dangerous situations. Here's a real example I like to share with my students. I had completed almost a 13 hour hike to the top of Half Dome at Yosemite National Park. I was exhausted, my knees hurt, I was so tired. I didn't think I could make it down. When all of a sudden, somebody yelled, bear. Sure enough my sympathetic nervous system became activated. I was able to run almost the entire way down the remainder of the mountain, one mile. That is a great example of fleeing or fighting and activation of the sympathetic nervous system. Let's recap the 2 systems of the Autonomic Nervous System. The Parasympathetic and the Sympathetic. Remember Parasympathetic is when we're normally resting. This results in things such as constricted pupils. It also constricts the bronchi. It also results in slowed heart rate, and finally allows us to digest. However, when something happens that is arousing, frightening or stressful. The Parasympathetic Nervous System turns off, and the Sympathetic Nervous System turns on. Here, we're going to see an opposite effect of what happens in the Parasympathetic. So, for example, here we'll have dilated pupils. We'll also see that the bronchi will relax. When the bronchi is relaxed, it allows for increased air intake. So we have more oxygen for our muscles. Also we'll see that we'll have an increased heart rate. Again, this allows for our fighting or our fleeing. Finally, we'll also see that the Sympathetic Nervous System will inhibit digestion. We don't need to worry about digesting our food when we need to run away from a dangerous situation. So for this I'm going to want you guys to fill in the chart that I'm about to make. Now first, we know that our Nervous System is divided into two main areas. One, that deals with our outside body. An the other that's responsible for our brain an spinal cord. Then we further divide this system into two more. One that deals with sensory information and one that deals with our involuntary systems. We divide the involuntary system into the Sympathetic and the Parasympathetic. One of these systems brings us back to normal and the other system is responsible for the flight or fight response. Here are your options, the Somatic Nervous System, back to normal, Central Nervous System, Autonomic Nervous System, fight or flight, Peripheral Nervous System. Type in the answers in these blanks. The Central Nervous System is responsible for our brain and spinal cord. The Peripheral Nervous System is responsible for our cells outside of the Central Nervous System. And the Peripheral Nervous System is divided into the Somatic Nervous System, which is responsible for processing our sensory information. And the autonomic nervous system, which is responsible for our involuntary systems. And this is divided into the sympathetic nervous system, which is responsible for our fight or flight response. And the Parasympathetic Nervous System, which helps bring us back to normal. Think about this. Everything you see, hear, feel, taste, and touch all happen because of our nervous system. So every day, millions of sensory stimuli enter our brains. Our brains interpret those and allow us to engage in our behaviors and be successful. Every minute, thousands and thousands of neurons are firing, and it makes our behaviour seem fluid and effortless, when in fact it's actually quite complicated. Let's take a look at an everyday example that shows how our nervous system allows us to be successful human beings. Something amazing is about to happen. Lauren is about to see and then touch a dog, you may think amazing, how boring and everyday. But in fact, it really is an amazing process. Let's take a look at it a little more carefully. First, Lauren sees Sputnik. The light waves enter her eye, stimulate sensory neurons in the retina, which then send neuro impulses to the back of the brain. The visual cortex in the occipital lobe lobes or the information get interpreted and made sense of Sputnik. Next, Lauren decides to be friendly with Sputnik and reaches down to pet him. For that to happen, something else needs to happen in Lauren's brain. It has to send a signal to the motor cortex involved in moving her hand to reach down and touch Sputnik. This impulse gets transmitted from the motor cortex in the frontal lobe to the arm via inter-neurons in the spinal cord, and motor neurons in the arm. Which contract muscles in the arm and move it back and forth. When she actually touches Sputnik, sensory neurons in her fingertips send neural signals back to her brain's sensory cortex. Here she has the conscious sensation of furriness. At each step in this process, hundreds of thousands of interconnected neurons are firing up to 200 times per second. This whole process, from when Lauren first sees Sputnik to petting him, lasts all of a few seconds. But look at what took place in these two to three seconds, that allow for all of this to happen. Now, perhaps you can see why we call this every day event, amazing. Now, we just mentioned a bunch of terms that you may not be familiar with. Visual cortex, occipital lobe, motor cortex, frontal lobe and motor and sensory neurons. Don't worry. The rest of this lesson we will elaborate and discuss these important parts of the brain. We will start with the smallest unit of communication, the neuron. And then, discuss different kinds of neural chemicals that make different experiences and different actions possible. Finally, we will learn all of the major brain structures and their function. The nervous system is comprised of cells. Which is what we will look at next to see what the building blocks of the nervous system are. So now, we know that everything we think and do happens because of nerve cells. As it turns out, nerve cells are not alone. There are actually two main types of cells in the central nervous system. The glial cells and the neurons, or the nerve cells. The glial cells, as seen here, provide structural support. They support the efficient communication between neurons. In addition, they also help my removing cellular debris. Glial actually means glue in Greek. It helps to hold the central nervous system together. The glial cells also help form the blood-brain barrier, and play a role in the control of breathing. The neurons are cells that process and transmit information in the nervous system. They receive information, they integrate that information, and then they generate messages. There are approximately ten billion neurons in the human brain. And even though they're located very close together, most of them don't actually touch. Each neuron has about ten thousand connections to other neurons. Which allows for literally trillions and trillions of neural connections. This makes the brain one of the most complex structures we know. So, how do neurons communicate? Well, there's two major things you need to know. First, information travels through a neuron using an electrical signal called an action potential. And second, information travels between neurons by way of chemicals. And those are called neurotransmitters. Let's go and take a closer look at these two processes. So, how does a neuron work? To answer that, we first need to know the different parts of the neuron, because each has a different function. Then, we can take a more detailed look at precisely how the neuron fires. Which is what we call an action potential. First, we have the cell body or the soma, it contains the nucleus and genetic information, along with components for the maintenance and function of the neuron. These are the dendrites. They're finger-like branches that project from the soma to connect to other neurons and receive messages. Extending out from the soma, on the opposite side of the dendrites, is the axon. The axon transmits electrical impulses towards adjacent neurons and stimulates the release of what we call neurotransmitters, we'll get to those in a second. Some axons have a myelin sheath wrapped around them. The myelin sheath insulates the axon and makes the nerve impulse more effective. At the end of each axon are the axon terminals, and the terminal buttons. The terminal buttons contain tiny vesicles or sacs that contain neurotransmitters. Now, I'm going to zoom into these terminal buttons so we can get a closer look at the neighboring neuron and how the two connect. If we zoom in on our terminal buttons, this is what we'll see. The joining of the terminal buttons with the neighboring neuron is called the synapse. It causes the release of a neurotransmitter. When the electrical impulse reaches the terminal button, where all the neurotransmitters are. It causes a release of the neurotransmitters into what we call the synaptic cleft. At this point, the electrical impulse stimulates a chemical change, which releases the neurotransmitters. The transmitters carry the signal across the synaptic cleft to the next neuron. Finally the neurotransmitters reach the receptor sites that only allow in particular kinds of neurochemicals, so it has to be a match. And then the process starts all over again. Down the dendrite, through the soma, down the axon, through the terminal buttons in the synapse and then reaches the next neuron. This is the basis of how nerve cells communicate. Now I want you to tell me what the order is, that information passes through the neuron. Fill in the blanks in this sentence. First, the information is received by the blank then passed through the blank then through blank to the blank. Then finally into the synapse. Here's some options for you. Axon, tube, terminal button, soma, gateway, dentrites, hippocampus, secret passageway. Type in your answers. First the information is received by the dendrites, then it passes through to the soma, the cell body. Then after it passes through the soma, it moves on to the axon. Then from the axon, it moves on to the terminal buttons. Then finally into the synapse. Here, I have another question for you. What does the myelin sheath do for the axon? Remember, the myelin sheath wraps around the axon. Does it keep it together so the impulse doesn't fall through the cracks? It insulates it making the neuron more effective, or does it protect it from synapticitis when the synapse eats the axon? The correct answer is the myelin sheath actually insulates the axon making the neruon more effective. And just so you guys know, synapticitis isn't real, I was just kidding. The body is incredible and taking information from the outside world through our five senses and making sense of it so that we can respond appropriately. We're able to do this because of three types of neurons. First, we have sensory neurons. Sensory neurons receive information from sense organs, for example the eyes, the tongue or the skin. Everything that we can see, touch, taste or feel is because of our sensory neurons. So the sensory neurons send sensory information to our brain and spinal cord. Take this for example, when I saw Sputnik, the sensory neurons in my eyes were firing. When I was petting him, the sensory neurons in my skin were firing because I could feel how soft he was. The sensory neurons send the message to the brain where the brain processes it. The motor neurons carry commands from our brains to our muscles to allow us to act appropriately. So my motor neurons allowed me to bend down and pet Sputnik. Finally, we have the Interneurons. The interneurons connect the neurons to other neurons. Some interneurons connect sensory neurons to motor neurons, or else some interneurons connect to neurons in the brain. Interneurons outnumber our sensory and our motor neurons, 10 to 1. So that's right, sensory neurons are responsible for all the incoming information that goes to our brain. Our brain interprets it and our motor neurons allow us to carry out appropriate behaviors. Our interneurons connect motor neurons to sensory neurons and also neurons to parts of the brain. &gt;&gt; Thanks Susan, you want to give them a quiz on this? &gt;&gt; Yes. Let's quiz. When our sensory neurons are activated, what occurs? Remember our sensory neurons are important for receiving incoming information from our senses. Touch, taste, smell and hearing. The sensory neurons carry signals from the peripheral nervous system to the outer parts of the body to tell us how we feel. The sensory neurons will carry signals from our senses to our central nervous system. Or the sensory neurons will carry signals to the motor neurons, which then send that message to the brain. So if you chose the sensory neurons will carry signals from our senses to the central nervous system, you are correct. Remember our sensory neurons perceive information from touch, taste, smell and hearing. It relays that message to the central nervous system, our brain and spinal chord. From there the brain interrupts that information and activates our motor neurons. The motor neurons allow us to move and behave appropriately. So remember, we have sensory neurons that send information to the central nervous system. The brain interprets that material and activates motor neurons which allow us to move and behave appropriately. So how do neurons send signals to and from the brain? Well let's take the example that you have a bee flying around your head. You either see it or you hear it. Your sensory neurons pick up this information and send it to your brain to be processed. Then your motor neurons take this signal and send it to your muscles and that allows you to swat the bee away or get up and run, whatever you're going to do. Now how these messages are sent are because of an action potential. Now an action potential is an explosion of electricity that sends information down an axon away from the cell body. When the electrical voltage of a neuron reaches a threshold level, that's when the action potential fires. Now this electrical impulse triggers a chemical release and that's how neurons communicate with each other. There's a lot more details that go into these. So I'm going to let Greg explain it to you a little better. So, this is going to be a little bit technical, but do try to follow along. It's very, very important. Now, let's take a closer look at the action potential, or as it's sometimes called, the nerve impulse. The action potential is an electrical impulse that travels along the axon. That is surrounded by a semipermeable membrane that allows only certain ions to cross through it. Ions are chemically charged particles that are found inside and outside the cells. In its resting state, the fluid outside the axon contains a higher concentration of positive ions than the inside of the axon. Which has many negatively charged ions. This resting potential is measured at negative 70 millivolts, or thousandths of a volt. So, neurons do not stay in this resting state. Rather, they can change and do change when an impulse increases the positive charge inside the neuron to a certain threshold. The neuron becomes locally depolarized to a charge of positive 40 millivolts and fires an action potential or a nerve impulse. The action potential travels along the axon to signal to other neurons. More specifically during an action potential, sodium ions, that are positive charges, enter the axon. After the action potential occurs, potassium ions cross outside the cells. And then, the neuron must transport these ions to return to it's resting state. This results in a refractory period wherein the neuron cannot generate another action potential. This entire process from start to finish lasts only about five milliseconds, or five 1000 of a second. So, one important point to make is that every time a neuron fires it fires to the same degree or amount goes up to positive 40 millivolts no more, no less. This is known as the all or none principle. Stronger responses involve simply more neurons firing not individual neurons firing more strongly. So, if you want to find out more about some of these technical details, you can find that information on some links that we'll post on the web. So now that we know the different types of neurons, sensory, motor and interneurons, and how electrical impulses result in action potentials. Let's see what happens after the action potential occurs. Remember once again that the signal starts from the dendrites and moves down the axon to the terminal buttons. In Lauren's depiction here at the Terminal button, we have synaptic vesicles that are holding neurotransmitters. Neurotransmitters are then released into the synaptic cleft. And if those neurotransmitters attach to the receptors on the opposite neuron, the message will continue along. Think of receptors as a lock and the neurotransmitters as a key. If the neurotransmitter attaches to the receptor site, the message will continue along, through the next neuron. So, what happens to the neurotransmitters once they're released from the synaptic vesicles? A variety of things can happen. One, those neurotransmitters can be taken back up by that neuron. This process is called reuptake. However, there are some groups that prevent reuptake. For example, maybe you have heard of Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors. If someone were to take an SSRI, it means that once those neurotransmitters are released Into the synaptic cleft. The drug prevents those neurotransmitters from being taken back up by that same neuron. That allows for more serotonin in the synaptic cleft and eventually those serotonin neurotransmitters can attach to the receptor sites. Another mechanism is enzymes will actually break down those neurotransmitters. In doing so, they will not be able to attach to receptor sites. Once the neurotransmitter attaches to the receptor, it can have 1 or 2 effects. Neurotransmitters can have an inhibitory effect or, an excitatory effect. Inhibitory effect is going to decrease the likelihood of the next neuron firing. Whereas an excitatory effect is going to increase the likelihood of the next neuron firing. Why would blocking the reuptake of the neurotransmitter serotonin be beneficial for people with depression? Because it would ensure that there was less serotonin in the synaptic cleft. Because it would ensure that there was no serotonin in the synaptic cleft. Because it would ensure that there was more serotonin in the synaptic cleft. Because it would ensure that there was more serotonin in the synaptic cleft. Remember, having more serotonin in the synaptic cleft, means that more of those neurotransmitters can attach to serotonin receptors. As we'll see in a moment, serotonin is important for mood regulation. Now, I think it's important to stop and ask ourselves just why our neurotransmitters so important?. Many medicines, as well as drugs of abuse, affect neurotransmitters. For example, we learned that SSRIs, Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors, prevent serotonin from being taken back up by that neuron. Neurotransmitters are also important when we're looking at drugs of abuse. For example, both cocaine and methamphetamine are drugs that increase the amount of dopamine that's available in the synaptic cleft. Again, that means dopamine can attach to those dopaminergic receptors. The firing of an action potential is only the first step of neural communication. The second step is where the real communication happens. And this is through chemicals. Chemicals transmit signals from neuron to neuron. And these chemicals are called neurotransmitters. A few of the really important ones for psychology are listed in the instructors notes comments below because these ones affect thought and behavior. So now that we've learned how the brain sends an receives signals, let's talk about how the brain functions. Now the brain isn't just one big black box where there's one unique function. It's actually made up of several important parts, each with a unique purpose. Now just like we learned in the evolution material, the brain is the result of millions of years of development. At the broadest level, there are three major regions of the brain, the hindbrain, the midbrain and the forebrain. These areas represent different evolutionary ages, meaning the hindbrain evolved first, followed by the midbrain and finally the forebrain. In fact, we can see some of the oldest animals on the planet. Fish and reptiles only have a hind brain. Birds and mammals have a mid brain and fore brain. But it's really the primates who have the most complex and developed fore brains. Now we have a lot of content to cover here. So rather than me just talking at you, we've a document that we're going to attach a link to in the instructors notes section below. Read this over then come back, and we'll talk about some really cool examples of different brain structures and answer some questions about them. &gt;&gt; So, Greg, I was looking at neuroplasticity, and how learning physical changes our brain. And I was trying to find a really good example of that, and then I came across the example you used in your book about London cab drivers. Can you give us a little bit about that setting? &gt;&gt; Sure. Sure. I'd be glad to. So, yeah, neuroscientists decided to study this one group that really is intensively involved in learning. They can't use any other map. They can't use a physical map, they can't use GPS so, you really, truly have to learn this very complicated network of streets. And, it takes months and months. And they have to pass a very difficult exam. And then, for a comparison group, they chose another group that did a lot of driving. So, they didn't want to explain any differences by driving alone. So they pick bus drivers. Now, the thing about bus driver is that they don't really have to learn a whole lot. They take the same route every day and so on. So, when they look at the hippocampus of these two groups, brain region involved in learning and memory. The hippocampus of the cab drivers was a lot more complex and rich, and bigger actually, then the bus drivers. So, this is just another great example then, of how learning really does change the brain. &gt;&gt; I'm really glad that you mentioned the hippocampus and learning because we're actually going to go into talking about the brain structures now. So, thank you a lot for giving us that example. Our cerebrum is composed of four large areas called lobes, which each carry out distinct functions. Our four lobes are frontal, parietal, occipital and temporal. These lobes are bilateral, which means that they are located on the left and the right sides of the brain. We should also point out that all of the structures of the forebrain, the thalamus, hypothalamus, hippocampus, amygdala, and the cingulated gyrus, are bilateral. Meaning they exist in twos. On the right, and on the left. This is Brian the Brain. He's going to help me show you what the brain's made of The Cerebrum is the uppermost portion of the brain. It's also the largest part of the brain, covering about 2 3rd of the whole brain mass. And it's divided into two main hemispheres. Now, the outer layer of the Cerebrum is called the Cerebral Cortex. Interestingly, it's only about 1 10th or 1 5th of an inch thick. However, even though it's really small, this is where much of our human thoughts, planning, perception, and consciousness take place. The Frontal Lobe, in the front of the brain, of course, makes up about 1 3rd of the area of the Cerebral Cortex. It's best known for its role in attention, working memory, impulse control, being creative, and also abstract reasoning and thinking. It's what really makes us human. Because it's the youngest part of our brain, this is why children and teenagers can act more impulsively than adults. Their frontal lobes aren't fully developed. It isn't around until 20 years old or so, before the frontal lobe is fully developed. One important area of the frontal lobe is the primary motor cortex. This is in this area of the frontal lobe. It's pretty cool how this was discovered. A German psychologist in the 1860s notice that when he was caring for injured soldiers, he would touch the surface of this area of the brain. And he found that a soldiers body would actually twitch on the opposite side. So, say he touched the right side. The left side of the soldier's body would twitch. From this and other research, we now know that different parts of the cortex are responsible for different functions. All of the parts of our body that we can move have a dedicated region of the motor cortex that is activated when we move our body parts. For example, we have a region for our fingers, one for our wrists, one for our lips, one for our legs and more. You get the picture. Given what you know about the brain. What do you think would happen if a large metal pipe entered through the left cheek up through the frontal cortex and out of the person landing 25 feet away? This actually did happen to somebody named Phineas Gage in 1848. The rod blew through his left cheek, through his brain, and landed 25 feet away. But he survived, and he never lost consciousness. However, there were several problems afterwards. Lauren will tell you a little bit about that So Susan's right. Phineas didn't die, but he did experience immediate changes to his personality. Before the accident, he was a really mild mannered and kind person. But immediately following, he was argumentative and really impulsive. He was even known to be really offensive sometimes. But remember, he was not like this before the accident. So it's cases such as these that give us insight into what parts of the brain are responsible for different behaviors. But let's go back to the PDF and learn more about the brain section so we can answer some questions about it. These are the cerebral hemispheres. They may look similar. But our hemispheres differ in size, shape and function. Thus even though the cerebrum is divided into two equal hemispheres. We now know that the left hemisphere processes information in a focused and analytical manner. And the right hemisphere intergrates information in a more broad manner. We see that insights and solutions to ideas are more likely to occur in the right hemisphere. However, the hemispheres do not operate independently. Let's look inside so I can show you why this is. Here we have the Corpus Collosum. This is a thick band of fibers that connects the two hemispheres and this band allows for extensive communication between the two hemispheres. This is really important for things such as logical thinking, even creativity. From research we know that the biggest functional difference between the two cerebral hemispheres is language. Both speech and language abilities involve the left hemisphere. However, they involve different parts. The first neural scientist to discover this was a man named Paul Broca. He found that a man who had a stroke could understand language but could not speak grammatically correct sentences. This man had what we call Aphasia, which is a deficit in the ability to speak or comprehend language. Due to his research, the part of the brain that's responsible for our ability to actually produce speech. Is named the Broca's Area. The part of the brain that's responsible for the ability to speak in meaningful sentences. And to comprehend the meaning of speech, is named the Wernicke's Area. It was discovered by Karl Wernicke. If there's damage to this area, the type of aphasia that results from this is fluent, grammatical streams of speech. However, they have no meaning. So, they're grammatically correct. They just don't have any meaning to them. So, I know this seems like a lot of information, and it is. But that's why you have this PDF. Come back to it whenever you need to, it should really help. Now, the last section of this lesson that we're going to go over is how you can measure brain activity. I'm going to pass it to Susan to explain it to you. &gt;&gt; Many of the advances in understanding a link between behavior and brain have occurred in the last 20 years because of better techniques of measuring brain activity. For example, how do we know that spatial ability is related to the parietal area? Or that the frontal lobe is responsible for impulse control? How do we know the hippocampus is associated with learning and memory? Historically, we learned about the brain function through accidents. Such as we saw with Phineas Gage. Since the 1940s we have been able to measure brain activity. But it's really been since the 1990s that we've seen better techniques that allow us to look at precise areas of the brain that are being activated. This has been such a revolution that some people call it the neuroscience revolution. So let's talk about three of the best ways to measure brain activity, starting with the electroencephalography. This is commonly called an EEG. It records electrical activity of the brain through electrodes placed on the scalp. This technique is really good at showing general activity of the brain, but it's not terribly precise at showing where exactly the activity is occurring. This is what a typical one would look like. Next, we have the Positron Emission Tomography or PET scan for short. This measures blood flow to brain areas that are activated because neural response requires blood. This technology requires a person to ingest a harmless radioactive form of oxygen or glucose. The radioactive level in the oxygen is picked up by the scanning device during brain activity. Computers then color code the most active areas in red, somewhat active areas in yellow, and the least active areas in blue and green, like you see here. And finally, we have the Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging, or FMRI for short. This also measures blood flow to active brain regions. But it doesn't use radioactive forms of oxygen. Instead, the FMRI uses magnetic fields to detect regions of the brain that are activated. One advantage of this, is that it can give us a very precise picture of which part of the brain is active. This is what a typical FMRI machine looks like. Now, it's really important to point out that none of these techniques directly measure neural activity. They all measure indirectly. There are ways of measuring individual neurons, but because it involves surgery its almost never used on humans. I know there's a lot of information on brain structure. So, if you need to you can go over some of the parts of the lesson again or always go back to the document we gave you. Throughout evolution, humans brains have grown larger and more complex. And that allows us to do all the amazing things that we can do. Everything about who we are, what we like, how we think, what we dream. And even how we feel is a function of our brain and its electrical and chemical activities. The nervous system is divided into the central nervous system that is comprised of the brain and the spinal cord. And the peripheral nervous system that consists of the somatic nervous system, which controls voluntary behavior. And the autonomic nervous system that controls involuntary behavior. The autonomic nervous system is further broken down into the sympathetic nervous system, which is our fight or flight responses. And the parasympathetic nervous system, which produces the opposite effects and relaxes the sympathetic nervous system. Neurons are specialized cells that communicate with each other via electrical and chemical signals. Sensory neurons receives sensory information and send it to the brain for processing. The brain then sends information to our motor neurons that allow us respond appropriately, and the interneurons form connections between neurons. After an action potential has occurred, neurons can release neurotransmitters, which are naturally occurring chemicals that produce a cascade of effects. Some important neurotransmitters in the study of psychology are, Dopamine, Serotonin, Acetycholine, Gabba, and Glutamate. As well as our natural occurring Endorphins. The brain is divided into twp hemispheres, left and right. And those communicate via the corpus collosum. The upper-most portion of the brain is the cerebrum. And the frontal lobe is important for attention, working memory, impulse control, and abstract thinking and creativity. It is the youngest part of the brain and the part that makes us most human. We are better able to determine what the different parts of the brain are responsible for due to advances in brain imaging techniques such as EEG, fMRI, and PET scans. These allow for researchers to see what parts of the brain are activated when we engage in various activities, such as talking, reading or even dreaming. In this lesson we're going to talk about sensation and perception. Now I know our last lesson, the brain lesson, there was a lot of content. And it was pretty tough. So we're going to have some fun with this one. I along with Andy, who you might know from Udacity Physics class have decided to host a sense Olympics. To teach you about sensation and perception. [MUSIC]. Welcome to the first ever Sense Olympics. I'm joined here by my co-host Andy. Thanks for joining us Andy. &gt;&gt; Thanks for having me, Lauren. I'm really excited to be here. Let's start by telling some of our viewers at home what we're going to be doing in the Sense Olympics. &gt;&gt; That sounds like a good idea. &gt;&gt; So, we're going to have six events. And, we're going to be using our coworkers as senseletes. Now, each of these events is going to somehow test or push the limits of human sense and perception. And first we have a touch event. And in this event, we're going to be measuring what's called a difference threshold. So, basically, measuring our senseletes ability to detect small changes in weight. &gt;&gt; Then, we're going to move on to one of our chemical senses. That's taste. Followed by our main events that focus on hearing and seeing. &gt;&gt; As we all know, humans have five senses. They have sight, hearing, taste, smell and touch. And to go along with each of those five senses are our five sense organs. We have eyes, ears, nose, tongue and skin. And it's through these organs that we receive all of our sensory information about the world. &gt;&gt; That's true, Andy. But our sensory organs are just the beginning of the process. They only let us sense things, not necessarily perceive them. &gt;&gt; You're right. And this is a really important distinction, sensation versus perception. So, sensation is really the taking in of input. It's the sights and the sounds. Whereas perception is the understanding and interpreting of these inputs. So, really it's the senses. &gt;&gt; Or sensations. &gt;&gt; Together with the brain. &gt;&gt; Or our perception. &gt;&gt; That are part of really the same process. Responding adaptively to our environment. &gt;&gt; So what's really important here, is that we see, feel, touch, taste, and hear just as much with our brain as we do with our sense organs. Sensation is just the beginning of the process. Whereas perception is the end of the process. Oh, excuse me, I'm getting word from our grounds correspondent, Susan. Their senseletes are lining up to begin. You know, while we're waiting for them to start, Andy, do you mind telling the people at home what it takes to be a senselete? &gt;&gt; Absolutely, Lauren. So one thing we can expect to see today, from our real all-star contenders is some exquisite transduction. Now, transduction is something you may not be familiar with. It's how we convert a physical stimulus and the physical energy associated with that into neural energy, in the form of neural impulses. &gt;&gt; For example, when light waves become neural impulses from the photo receptors on our retna. &gt;&gt; That's true Lauren, but I think we're getting a little ahead of ourselves. &gt;&gt; I'm sorry, I just get really excited about sensation of perception. &gt;&gt; It's okay, Lauren, we all do. It's going to be a great day in the history of Sense Olympics though. &gt;&gt; Andy, you do know it's going to be the only day in the history of Sense Olympics. &gt;&gt; You don't know that. This might be a continuing event. I hope so. anyway, before we begin the first event, we'd love to thank our sponsors who made this a reality. Paint away, sniff book, Megadog 30,000 desiboost and [UNKNOWN]. They've generously donated to make this event happen. So, now to our ground correspondent, Susan, are you ready? Thank you Andy and Lauren. I'm here at the location of our first event, where we're going to assess our senseletes' abilities to detect differences in weight. While they finish setting up, let me explain the rules. Here, our senseletes are going have to be asked five times to reliably compare differences in weight. This will allows us to the get the difference threshold. Let's go back to the studio to get a better explanation of what we mean, by difference threshold. Thanks Susan. Now, Andy, would you mind telling me and the viewers at home a little more about this event. &gt;&gt; Lauren, that's a great question. So, at its core what we have here is a weight difference threshold competition. What that means is, let's say I took these two mugs, they're identical, they have the same weight. So, if I gave them to you right now, what would they feel like? &gt;&gt; The same! &gt;&gt; Right. And what if instead, I put a gram of water into one of these mugs, and you're blindfolded, remember. Could you tell the difference? &gt;&gt; I don't think so, it's just one gram of water. &gt;&gt; But if there was, let's say 100 grams of water? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think I'd be able to tell the difference between 100 grams of water. &gt;&gt; You probably would. So the question is, where is that threshold? At what point can you tell the difference in weight? &gt;&gt; How exactly are they going to measure this though? &gt;&gt; So, what we're going to be doing is making a lot of comparisons. We're going to have our 100 gram reference weight and our atheletes are going to be comparing that to 101 grams and then a 102 grams, and for each of these comparisons, they'll identify, or try to identify which is heavier. &gt;&gt; That's fascinating, Andy. It is, but the question I really want to know is. Which of these comparisons is going to be the most difficult for our senseletes? Well, I would say it would be between 100 and 101 grams. I just don't think we're going to find anybody that can do that. &gt;&gt; I think you're probably right, but do you mind explaining to our viewers at home why that is? Well, the human difference threshold for weight is 3%. So, we would expect to see our sense leads be able to tell the difference between 100 grams and 103 grams. But nothing less, unless we have a really skilled sense lead. &gt;&gt; That's fascinating. I really can't wait to see what happens. [SOUND] &gt;&gt; Andy, are you okay? &gt;&gt; Yes, I'm fine. Just got a little papercut. Let's let's cut to a commercial break. Are you suffering from pain? If so, come into Pain Away and speak to one of our pain specialists. We can tailor a pain reduction plan just for you. Because we know that pain is personal. Pain is also complex, it's sensory, it's physical, it's emotional. For instance, for physical pain there are nerve cells. In your skin, called nociceptors, and these send signals of pain to your brain. For emotional pain, such as social rejection and bullying, the same areas of the brain are activated as in physical pain. And because we understand this, we can tailor our pain reduction plan just for you. Pain Away. For your unique pain. So Andy and Lauren both cut themselves in the same place on their fingers. Who is in more pain? We don't know pain is a subjective experience. They are both in equal amounts of pain. Andy hurts more, or Lauren hurts more. Select one. The correct answer is, we don't know, because pain is a subjective experience. Meaning it differs from person to person Andy broke his arm, and Lauren was dumped by her boyfriend. Who's in more pain? Andy's in more pain. Even though Lauren said it's not exactly pain. Lauren's in more pain. Because even though Andy's hurting, breaking his arm isn't as bad as going through a breakup. We don't know. Pain is a subjective experience. They're both in equal amounts of pain. Select one. Again, the correct answer is that we don't know, because pain is a subjective experience. And both emotional pain and physical pain activate the same parts of our brain. So, both of us would be in pain in this scenario. &gt;&gt; And welcome back. While we were away we actually had to sensley take home the the Golden Brain for detecting a difference of under 2%. &gt;&gt; That's amazing, I guess that you were proved wrong, but your human difference threshold average of 3%. &gt;&gt; Well, Andy, that is why they call it an average. &gt;&gt; Well, either way, it's pretty amazing and even more importantly I'm okay and my bleeding has stopped. &gt;&gt; Andy, it was a paper cut. &gt;&gt; Lauren, it hurt. &gt;&gt; Well, I'm glad you're feeling better. &gt;&gt; Thanks, but this bandaid actually feels a little weird. &gt;&gt; How so? &gt;&gt; Well, I don't know. There's all these little groves in it, and they're kind of bothering me. &gt;&gt; Hmm. That's your mechanoreceptors sensing that. &gt;&gt; Wait. My what? &gt;&gt; Your mechanoreceptors. They're little neurons in your skin that are sensitive to different things, like grooves or texture, shape, even vibrations and motion. &gt;&gt; And each one is sensitive to its own specific sort of texture? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; That's really fascniating. It's almost like the rods and cones in our eyes, which we use to. &gt;&gt; Andy, I'm going to stop you there, I just gt word from Susan that they're going to start the brain ceremony. We'll get back to that in a minute. So Lauren what's going on with this brain trophy here. &gt;&gt; The brain and the century organs are here to represent the process of tranduction the century organs take in the sensory information and the brain processes it into neural information so we can perceive this. Thank you ANL creations for donating this lovely trophy. &gt;&gt; I second that. Thank you very A and L Creations, this is a wonderful addition to the event. So now it's time to move into our chemical senses. &gt;&gt; Wait. Andy, should I be worried? Should I be, are things going to be blowing up? What's going on? &gt;&gt; Lauren, before you run to get your hazmat suit, the chemical senses are just senses that are based on the reception of chemicals. So for example, your sense of smell or your sense of taste. &gt;&gt; Oh. So, with smell, the tiny particles that go up your nose and that are detected by your smell receptors? &gt;&gt; Exactly. And something pretty similar for taste, actually. let's actually go to Susan, who is, yep, sounds like she's on location at the taste-off now. &gt;&gt; Thank you, Andy. Although the taste-off will focus on our senseletes' ability to activate their 10,000 tastebuds. The person who's going to excel in this competition is the one who also activates their smell receptors. &gt;&gt; It's truly amazing how our perception of taste actually depends on the sensation of taste and smell. &gt;&gt; It really is. How is it possible that these two seemingly different senses are so intimately related? &gt;&gt; Well Andy, that's because both taste and smell are processed up here, in the frontal lobes of our brain. For the taste-off the contestants are going to have to identify samples that contain each of the five basic flavors. These are sweet, salty, sour, savory and bitter. To do this we'll be using the following ingredients. Sugar, salt, lemon, MSG, and tonic water. &gt;&gt; And Susan, which ingredient is going to correspond to which flavor? So sweet uses sugar, salty uses salt, sour uses lemon, savory uses MSG, and bitter uses tonic. &gt;&gt; So, Susan, you say savory uses MSG. Can you describe this for us please? &gt;&gt; That's a great question Lauren, I'm glad you asked. This flavor is actually called Umami, which means pleasant savory taste. You'll find this Umami taste in things such as aged meats and cheeses. It's a very difficult flavor to describe, but it's also found in MSG, or monosodium glutamate, which is a flavoring. So, savory is really a combined sense of both MSG as well as the perceived savory odors by your nose. &gt;&gt; Interesting. So, what's expected of our sensthletes after they're presented with this sample? &gt;&gt; Well, our senseletes will be presented with five samples, and each of these will have a very light version of the flavor. Then, they'll have to correspond and taste each one and correctly identify the basic favor. &gt;&gt; Now, do we have a projected winner for this event? &gt;&gt; Well, Lauren. I'm not sure what the stats are for these senseletes. So, we'll just have to wait and see. &gt;&gt; Actually, Susan. If you don't mind, I can interject here. I was speaking to a senselete earlier, Alex, who I suspect may win. &gt;&gt; Why is that? &gt;&gt; Lauren, stick out your tongue. &gt;&gt; Like this? &gt;&gt; Exactly. Now, do you want to feel the surface for me? &gt;&gt; Mm-hmm. &gt;&gt; Can you feel tiny little bumps? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Now, those bumps are actually clusters of taste buds. And we call these clusters papilla. &gt;&gt; Huh. That's interesting. &gt;&gt; It is. You can actually stick your tongue back inside now, yeah. So, anyways, humans, on average, have about 10,000 taste buds. Alex, with 10,000 plus another extra thousand, 11,000 taste buds, just may take home the golden brain today. &gt;&gt; That's interesting, Andy. Well, I'm actually getting word that our senseletes are ready to begin. So, back to you Susan, with coverage of the event. &gt;&gt; Thank you Andy, I am going the other way as the testing is about to begin. &gt;&gt; Alright contestants, you know the rules. Place the appropriate cup on the paper in the right place with the appropriate category. Ready, go. &gt;&gt; This is really exciting. Wow Andy you're right look at Alex tasting all those samples. This is just amazing. &gt;&gt; It really is amazing Lauren but you know you can't actually see her tasting. &gt;&gt; I know Andy but it's just the thought of all those taste buds being activated and how fast she's processing all of these flavors it's just it's just incredible. &gt;&gt; You're right, and look at that. It looks like we have a winner. I, well, the ref is checking the responses now. &gt;&gt; We have a winner! It looks like Alex takes home the Golden Brain. This is very exciting. while they're finishing up Lauren, I actually have something for you and I thought at the end taste event was the time to give it to you. &gt;&gt; You shouldn't have Andy. &gt;&gt; I sure made you these. &gt;&gt; Aww, thank you. Oh, these smell like the cookies my grandmother used to make me. Excuse me, I need a minute. &gt;&gt; I, I'm sorry, I, I don't know what, can we go to a commercial break? Everyone loves looking at pictures. But what do you do when pictures aren't enough? How can you really relive a memory from your past? Well, now, there's Sniff Book. You see, our olfactory sensory neurons can do amazing things. And sometimes, a single whiff of a long forgotten smell is enough to take you back to where you'd experienced that smell before. You might ask, how can Sniff Book make me remember these times in my life. Well, when a particle enters your nose. Chemical energy gets transduced to neural energy. The neural impulses has travel directly to the olfactory bulbs in the temporal lobes. And some of the nerve fibers of the olfactory bulb go directly to the amygdala. It is here that the magic happens. The amygdala is involved in emotion. And this is one reason why smells can sometimes bring back such clear, strong emotions. The Sniff Book is available for three easy payments of $9.99, so order your Sniff Book today because the past is just a sniff away. [MUSIC]. I'm sorry about that, Andy, I'm sorry about that, viewers at home. But now I'm back, I'm good and now we're ready for one of my favorite senses, hearing. &gt;&gt; It's alright Lauren, I really had no idea that a smell could bring back such an emotional response. &gt;&gt; Anyways the event we're about to do now is all about the sensation and perception of sound. &gt;&gt; Really, Andy. And now, I think myself included, that our viewers would like to know what exactly is sound? &gt;&gt; Well, sound is a wave. &gt;&gt; Now what do you mean by wave? &gt;&gt; So, let's take a look at sound with our patented UdaciTablet system. So, sound is just a pressure wave through the air, and air is just a bunch of molecules spread out like this. And here, each little black dot is just an air molecule. And when something like a speaker, which I've drawn here, makes a sound, it does so by vibrating this part back and forth. So, it would go forward and backwards, and forwards, and backwards, and so on. And this actually causes all of the air molecules to bunch up in some places, like this. And you can see regions where there are a high density of air molecules. And region where there's a low density. And this, in turn, creates region of high pressure, and regions of low pressure. So, can you guess which of these regions are high and which are low pressure. Well, I guess where it's all bunched up, so here, here, and here. These are high pressure, but this would be low, right? &gt;&gt; That's exactly right, Lauren, and we usually show this with a wavy graph. Like this. With regions of high pressure and regions of low pressure. &gt;&gt; Okay, so if all sounds are waves like this, how do we get different sounds? &gt;&gt; Well there's actually a few ways sounds can be different. What exactly do you mean when you say different? &gt;&gt; Well, some are really loud and then some are really quiet. &gt;&gt; Okay, we call that volume. And, this one you may be able to guess, so Lemme give you a few pictures of waves. So let's say we have this wave. And we want to compare it, to this wave, this wave, and this wave. Which do you think would sound the loudest? &gt;&gt; Well, Andy, I would guess this one,cuz it's the biggest. &gt;&gt; Well, when you say biggest, what do you mean exactly? &gt;&gt; Well, because they go up really high, and then down really, really low compared to the other ones. This wave has the largest, what we call, amplitude which is this distance from this imaginary middle line up to the peak. All these other waves have smaller amplitudes. It's this amplitude of the wave that controls the loudness and the loudness of a sound is measured in something called decibels. &gt;&gt; So, is amplitude the only way a wave can be different? &gt;&gt; Well, you tell me. Amplitude affects the volume of a sound. Is volume the only property of sound that we can hear? &gt;&gt; Well, no, some are really low and some are really really high, like high pitch voices compared to low pitch voices. &gt;&gt; Exactly, and you've said yourself. You used the word pitch and pitch is actually controlled by what's called the frequency of a wave. &gt;&gt; Well, Andy, what exactly is frequency? &gt;&gt; Well, remember have we said that waves will be caused by these little vibrations? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Well, frequency just measures how many vibrations are happening each second. So, if something's vibrating slowly, or if it's vibrating quickly. And we measure this with a unit called Hertz. So, if these vibrations are slow, we get a low frequency wave. If they're fast, we get a high frequency wave. &gt;&gt; I see. &gt;&gt; Alright so if this speaker. &gt;&gt; That's a beautiful speaker Andy. &gt;&gt; Thanks Lauren. If it were vibrating at twenty times per second what would be the frequency of the sound wave. I would guess 20 Hertz? &gt;&gt; Absolutely. If it's vibrating 20 times per second, the frequency it's going to produce is 20 Hertz. Now, what do you think is the relationship between frequency, this how many times per second the wave is being produced. And pitch. This perceived sound quality of the wave. &gt;&gt; So if fast vibrations make high frequencies. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Which sound like high pitch. &gt;&gt; Exactly. High frequency means high pitch. Now let's do the same thing we did before. Can you tell me which of these three pictures corresponds to the wave with the highest pitch? &gt;&gt; Well honestly Andy, I'm not sure. You said it had to do with how fast the waves are shaking. But the only difference I see here, is how spread out the waves are. &gt;&gt; That's a really great point Lauren. This is what's hard about drawing waves. Waves are moving all the time. And when we draw them we have to draw them still. But your putting out when you say the wave is stretched out, maybe from here to here. This is called the wavelength of the wave. But for now, I think Susan actually brought her slinky with her today, so maybe we can go to Susan. Susan, are you there with your slinky by any chance? &gt;&gt; Way ahead of you Andy. Once you started talking about waves, I got a contestant here to help out. &gt;&gt; That's great Susan. &gt;&gt; And Susan, do you think you could actually shake your hand up and down really slowly and make a nice low frequency wave for us? &gt;&gt; Sure thing, Andy. Here is a large stretched out wave. &gt;&gt; It is. Now what happens if you shake your hand a little faster? &gt;&gt; Here, it gets much more compact. &gt;&gt; So, high frequency waves are squished together, and low frequency waves are spread apart? &gt;&gt; That's right, exactly. So, high frequency waves have a short wavelength. Whereas, low frequency has a long wavelength. thanks a lot Susan. It looks like we're actually getting ready for the next event. &gt;&gt; Yep, we'll be ready soon. &gt;&gt; Alright Susan, we'll check back on you soon. &gt;&gt; So, I, I think I'm ready to answer that question you gave me earlier. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, which of these waves would have the highest frequency? &gt;&gt; I think it's B. &gt;&gt; Excellent [UNKNOWN], nice. Now, there's actually another property of sound that we haven't talked about. And that property is called timbre. So, let me give you an example of this. I'm going to play a couple of sounds for you. So, first little to this. [SOUND]. And now, listen to this. [SOUND]. Could you tell the difference? &gt;&gt; Yeah, One was a guitar and one was a piano. &gt;&gt; Now, there's interesting that you could distinguish because they both had the exact same pitch. And they had the same volume. So, this difference between the sounds is what's called timbre. &gt;&gt; So, this is basically the difference in the quality of the sound. &gt;&gt; Yeah, you could think of it like that. Which sort of leads to the next question. &gt;&gt; Is that what property the sound wave makes as perceived timbre? &gt;&gt; Right. And it's the wave's complexity. &gt;&gt; That's the property of the sound wave that lets us perceive timbre. And what I mean by that is like this like this, this is what we would call a pure wave. [SOUND]. But some waves are complex, like this one. [SOUND]. And it's this complexity that allows us to perceive a wave's timbre. &gt;&gt; Okay, I think this makes sense, but it's a lot of information, let me make sure I understand. &gt;&gt; Alright, so, can you explain it back to me? &gt;&gt; Well, yeah, there's three properties of sound wave. The sound is a wave. First there's amplitude, that's how high and how low a wave goes. Then there's frequency, that's how many waves there are per second. And then there's purity, that's how complex a wave is. &gt;&gt; Excellent, so those are the properties of the wave itself. But what about three properties of what we hear, what we perceive? So, by that I mean the volume, the pitch, the timbre. Can you match the perceived sound properties to the properties of the wave? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think I can. Pitch is the frequency, volume is the amplitude, and complexity is the timbre. &gt;&gt; Excellent. &gt;&gt; Oh, it looks like they're almost ready to start the first hearing event. Susan, what's going on, on the floor? &gt;&gt; Well, people are just about ready to start the first hearing event. &gt;&gt; And what property of hearing will this event be addressing? &gt;&gt; This event will test our senseletes' ability to hear different pitches. &gt;&gt; Susan, can you explain a little more about what that means? &gt;&gt; Well, Andy, most humans can hear frequencies of 20,000 hertz. Any higher and we simply can't hear that. So, this is going to be an absolute threshold test, which means we're going to see just how high of a pitch these contestants can hear. &gt;&gt; And how are they going to be measuring that? &gt;&gt; As you can see, our contestants are blind-folded and they're going to sit around these speakers. Every now and then, a tone is going to play and if a contestant hears a tone they raise their hand. If they raise their hand incorrectly or don't hear it, they will be eliminated. The pitch will get higher and higher until there is only one contestant left. Oh, it looks like the ref is signaling for me to leave. It looks like they're ready to start. &gt;&gt; This is very exciting, Lauren. Now, before we go to the next event, Susan said that this was an absolute threshold test. Does that have anything to do with the difference threshold test we saw earlier? &gt;&gt; That's a good question, Andy. It's related. Do you remember with the difference threshold, we were looking at how much stimulus needed to change in order to detect it. &gt;&gt; Right. The contestants could detect a difference between like 100 and 105 grams. But not necessarily 100 and 101. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Well, with an absolute threashhold, we're looking to see how much of the stimulus is needed to be detected at all. &gt;&gt; Okay, I think I see. So, we're answering different questions. For example, what's the quietest sound that a human can hear. &gt;&gt; Exactly. In this event we're measuring pitch. We want to see what the highest pitch a human can hear is. We're looking at the limits of human perception. &gt;&gt; That's really exciting. Now, oh, it looks like they've actually already begun. Let's go to the event. &gt;&gt; Well, it looks like we're only at 12,000 Hz right now, Andy. &gt;&gt; Yeah, and it looks like they are all able to hear that. Lauren, when can we expect to see contestants to drop off? &gt;&gt; Well, the range for human hearing is between 20 hertz and 20,000 hertz. So, if I had to put my money on it, I would guess we'd see people drop off at around 17,000 to 18,000 Hz. And for those of you trying to compete at home, I'd recommend turning your sound up, closing your eyes, and trying to see which of these tones you can identify it. [SOUND]. &gt;&gt; That was really exciting Andy. &gt;&gt; It was. Let's see if we can talk to the winner as they prepare for the next event. Susan, are you there? &gt;&gt; Hi Andy, I can hear you loud and clear. You must be talking between 20 and 20,000 hertz, right? I've got the winner here of the pitch absolute threshold competition, Jacques. That was incredible, how did you do it? &gt;&gt; Well, I've always taken good care of my ears. &gt;&gt; Well, thank you and congratulations. I'll let you go ahead and prepare for your next event. Back to you, Lauren and Andy. &gt;&gt; Thanks Susan. We're going to take a brief break, and get a word from one of our sponsors while the next event is being prepared. Could you hear that? No, but I bet your dog did. That's because this is the Megga Dog Series 30,000. This dog whistle will get your dog's attention without disturbing people. It's great for moms and dads. Say, baby here is sleeping, but you need Sparky's attention. So, how do you get his attention without waking up the baby? You use the Mega Dog series 30,000. So, you may be asking, how does the Mega Dog series 30,000 work? Well, it's because humans can hear frequencies only between 20 hertz and 20,000 hertz. But dogs on the other hand, can hear frequencies between 10 hertz and 30,000 hertz. And these dog whistles emit sounds at 30,000 hertz. So, buy the Megga Dog Series 30,000 today. [MUSIC]. And we're back. We just saw an exciting athlete threshold competition, where we tested to see how high-pitched our contestants could hear. &gt;&gt; And now we're going to go to another absolute threshold competition, but this time we're going to measure how quiet of a sound our contestants can perceive. Let's go to you Susan. &gt;&gt; Hi guys, this event is similar to our pitch event except we're going to be measuring volume. We're going to start with 60 decibels, which is about the sound of the average speaking voice. So, hopefully everybody will hear that and raise their hands. Then we're going to lower it to 50, 40, 30 decibels, which is about the sound of a whisper. We'll keep lowering those until there's only one contestant remaining. [SOUND] It looks like they're ready to start. I need to clear the floor. &gt;&gt; Thanks Susan. We're going to let you keep an eye on things there. &gt;&gt; This is really exciting. I, wonder how low, the volume will go. Susan mentioned that 60 decibels is the volume of normal speaking. &gt;&gt; And 30 decibels is the volume of a whisper. So, what do you think will be the lowest volume that our contestants will be able to hear? &gt;&gt; Well, Andy, I would say a whisper is a lot quieter than normal conversation, so many 25 decibels? &gt;&gt; Actually, it's probably going to be a lot closer to zero. &gt;&gt; Zero? Isn't that no sound at all? &gt;&gt; So, not quite. Decibels are a funny unit. The way decibels work are, each ten decibel decrease in volume corresponds to half the volume. &gt;&gt; So, 50 decibels is half the volume of 60 decibels? &gt;&gt; Exactly. And that would mean that 40 decibels is &gt;&gt; Well, 40 decibels would be half of 50, and then 50 decibels would be half of 60. So, 40 is a fourth of the loudness of 60? &gt;&gt; You're exactly right. And the typical threshold of human hearing is actually about. &gt;&gt; Oh, oh, we have to go back to Susan, we have our results, they're in. &gt;&gt; Hi, guys. That was pretty incredible, wasn't it? &gt;&gt; Actually, Susan, no. We missed it. That happened really quickly. &gt;&gt; It did happen quickly. Actually, the lowest any of our contestants could hear was only 0 decibels. &gt;&gt; What? Susan, 0? That sounds pretty low. &gt;&gt; It is low, but that is actually the threshold of the average human hearing. I was really hoping to go into the negative decibels today but what can you do? &gt;&gt; Well, thanks Susan. &gt;&gt; Anytime. &gt;&gt; Well, Andy, I guess we didn't see any records set for volume threshold today. &gt;&gt; Yeah, we certainly did not, I'm actually a little bit pointed with our performance. But, but what are you going to do? &gt;&gt; Well, I know on the plus side, I bet our sponsors are happy. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] You're absolutely right, actually. let's, let's go to them, now. Are you or a loved one starting to lose your hearing? If so, you may need DeciBoost, the affordable hearing aid. Have you ever wondered why we lose our hearing with age? Well, we hear because there are hair cells in our cochlea, our inner ear, and the smallest of these hair cells allows us to hear at the highest frequency of sounds. But with age these small hair cells are most likely to be damaged, leading to hearing loss and high frequency sounds. But with DesiBoost we can boost those high frequency sounds so you can hear them. Buy DesiBoost today. For our concert goers out there we created deciboost two. So, if you've been exposed regularly to sounds around 90dB, you may have early hearing loss. For example, a normal speaking voice is about 60dB. A jackhammer [NOISE] about 90dB. A very loud nightclub or concert can range [NOISE] from 100 to 120dB. [MUSIC] And a jet engine can reach 130 decibels. So, if you've been to a lot of loud nightclubs or rock concerts, come on in and see us or give us a call at 555-HEAR. [MUSIC]. And we're back at the Udacity Sense Olympics. Andy, can you give us an overview of what's been going on? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, we've had four events so far. And in this first event, we found that our contestants could only detect a difference in weight of about 3%. In the second, our contestants identified the five primary flavors. And in these last two events, we discovered or pushed the limits of the thresholds of human hearing. What we learn is that humans can really hear between 20 and 20,000 Hz and that the quietest sound we can hear is about 0 dB. &gt;&gt; Well, Andy, somethings been bothering me. How exactly does hearing work? &gt;&gt; What do you mean by that? That's a pretty big question. &gt;&gt; Well, okay, so I know sound vibrates the air but once those vibrations get into my ear, how do I perceive that sound? &gt;&gt; That's, that's a really good question. And actually, the transduction of a sound wave to a perceived sound is a pretty complicated process. So take a look at this diagram. Okay. Can you tell me what this is? Yeah, Amie, it's an ear. Okay, it is and can you tell me what happens when a sound wave comes and enters our ear? Well, I'm guessing it's collected by this tube thing here right? Exactly, and that tube thing is called the ear canal. And then what do you think happens? Then, it gets to this thing here. That's right. And this thing is called the eardrum, and it's a tight membrane that vibrates at the same frequency as this incoming sound wave. That's really cool Andy, but then, what are these things that's connected to the eardrum? These are three tiny bones. So. The vibrations in the eardrum cause these bones to vibrate. Alright, well then, what happens when the vibrations get to this curly thing here? Right, this curly snake like looking thing is called the cochlea. And the cochlea is filled with fluid. So, when the bones here vibrate, they actually cause the fluid in the cochlea to vibrate as well. Okay, so we have vibrating air, which goes in to vibrate the eardrum, which vibrates the bones, which vibrates the fluid in the cochlea? Exactly, and lining the inside of this cochlea are thousands of tiny little hairs. And when these hairs vibrate, they cause neurons to fire. The signal gets sent off to part of the brain called the temporal lobe, which is where it's interpreted as sound. Something else that's amazing is that the different frequencies who actually cause different hairs in the cochlea to vibrate. Which is part of how we're able to hear so many different sounds. &gt;&gt; Oh, so Andy, it sounds like our senseletes are getting ready for the final events. Let's go back to Susan and see what's going on. Back to you, Susan. &gt;&gt; Hi, you guys. It's really exciting over here. As you can see, we're getting set up with the eye charts, and the athletes are warming up for the first sight event. &gt;&gt; And how does this event work? &gt;&gt; Well, actually you can see the charts have letters with different sizes on them. &gt;&gt; The contestants have to read the letters, and those that can read the smallest letters get more points awarded. They have to read those without glasses. &gt;&gt; Any comments from what you've seen so far in this event? &gt;&gt; It's actually pretty interesting how dramatically different some of our contestants are. For example, some cannot even read the largest letters, where some can read almost all of the smallest ones. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it looks like some of our contestants are nearsighted huh, Susan? &gt;&gt; You're definitely right Andy. It's a good thing these contestants can wear their glasses when they're not at these events. &gt;&gt; Lucky indeed. Thanks a lot Susan. &gt;&gt; So Andy, when you were talking to Susan, you mentioned nearsightedness. Now, what did you mean by that? &gt;&gt; So, people who are nearsighted have a hard time seeing things that are far away. They can only see things that are close, or near to them. &gt;&gt; So, Andy, are you nearsighted? You have the. &gt;&gt; Yes. When I take my glasses off I really can't see a thing. &gt;&gt; So, why does that happen? &gt;&gt; Before we get into that why don't we learn a little bit more about the eye. &gt;&gt; So, just take a look at this diagram. &gt;&gt; Okay. Well, I've definitely seen this before. Can you tell the viewers at home what's going on? &gt;&gt; Okay. So, this is our eye, and the job of the eye is basically to take light which enters here and focus it onto the back of the eye, back here. &gt;&gt; Is it kind of how a magnifying glass focuses light? &gt;&gt; Yeah, sort of. Now, a properly functioning eye with good vision will take light that enters, and bend that later or focus it on to the back of the eye here, which is called the retina. &gt;&gt; And what about an eye that's not functioning so well. Well in that case the lense, this part here that actually bent the light and focused it, isn't doing it's job right. And people who are what's called nearsighted, the light actually gets bent too much by the lense. So, maybe the focusing point would be somewhere here, which is not where the retina is. So, this results in blurry vision. &gt;&gt; That's interesting. &gt;&gt; Yep, but that's not the only way someone's vision can be negatively effected. In addition to being nearsighted, we can also have something that's called farsightedness. Where do you think light would be focused if someone were farsighted? Well, nearsightedness focuses the image somewhere around here in front of the retina. I know it doesn't focus on the retina, because that's perfect vision. So, it has to be here, behind the retina. &gt;&gt; Exactly Lauren, and this happens when the retina doesn't bend the light far enough. So, we have a situation something like this. Of course the light doesn't actually go back behind the retina, gets collected here. But this is where it would be focused. What about all these other parts of the eye? What do they do? &gt;&gt; Well, there's a lot going on here. So, let's talk about it. right here, we have this clear protective membrane and that's called the cornea. And the eye is pretty important so, its job is basically just to protect everything that's going on inside. &gt;&gt; And how about the blue part here? &gt;&gt; Well, that's the colored part of our eye. That's called the iris. And, in addition to being very pretty, it's a muscle that constricts or dilates to change the amount of light that's let in through this guy here, and that's called the pupil. And when it's dim, you'll notice that your pupils tend to be pretty big. Versus when it's pretty bright out, they tend to be pretty small. Because they don't need as much light. &gt;&gt; Then what about this guy right here? &gt;&gt; Right. That's the lens. Remember how before we were talking about how the light gets bent when it enters the eye? &gt;&gt; Uh-huh. &gt;&gt; Well, the lens is what does that bending, that focusing, to make sure that the light enters and is focused onto the back of the retina. &gt;&gt; And when it hits the retina, that's where our rods and cones are, right? &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. Those rods and cones are called photoreceptor cells. And so, this retina actually contains many layers of these rods and cones. &gt;&gt; And so, rods, photoreceptor cells, photo means light, receptor means to receive. They actually are sensitive to primarily black and white vision, and they help us to see at night time. &gt;&gt; So then, does that mean the cones help us see color? &gt;&gt; Exactly. And there's actually three different types of cones. Some are sensitive to red light, which is a long wavelength. Some are sensitive to green or medium wavelength light. And some are sensitive to blue, shortwave length light. So, these are used for color vision. And Loren, there's actually one other piece that I haven't told you about yet. There's this thing here. And I'm not going to tell you what it is, but I bet you could maybe guess what the function this guy is. I would say it's to send signals to the brain. &gt;&gt; Absolutely, Lauren. I mean, we've got all this sensing happening, and how does the perception happen? Well, the signal must get sent to the brain. That's what happens with touch, taste, smell, and hearing. And it has to happen with sight, too. That's right Lauren I'm here with Sean who seems to have the sharpest vision out of all our contestants. Tell me Sean how did you do it? &gt;&gt; well it's actually funny I don't have perfect vision. &gt;&gt; You don't? How so? &gt;&gt; We'll I'm color blind. I have a really hard time distinguishing between green and red. &gt;&gt; Very interesting. So your vision is still sharp but you can't distinguish between those two colors. Do you know why? &gt;&gt; Actually no, I don't. &gt;&gt; This is interesting. Let's go back to the studio where we can discuss color blindness in more detail. &gt;&gt; Now, Lauren. &gt;&gt; Mm-hm? &gt;&gt; Based on what we know about photoreceptors, do you think the problem is with our contestant's rods or his cones? Well Andy, I would say it would have to be the cones because cones are responsible for our color vision. &gt;&gt; But how does color blindness come from cones. &gt;&gt; So, actually before we talk about color blindness, I think it makes sense to talk a little bit about color. &gt;&gt; I think that's a great idea, because what exactly is color. &gt;&gt; So, remember how we talked about how sound is a wave. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; light's actually a wave too. &gt;&gt; Oh, really? &gt;&gt; And so, what that means is that, well, remember the properties of waves. Do you remember which property corresponded to pitch? &gt;&gt; Yeah, that was frequency. &gt;&gt; Exactly. And so, what would a, for example, high frequency wave look like? &gt;&gt; It would look like this. &gt;&gt; And what about a low frequency wave? &gt;&gt; It would look like this. &gt;&gt; Excellent. That's perfect. So, high frequency, lots of fast oscillations; low frequency, fewer waves per second, slower oscillations. &gt;&gt; So, what does frequency have to do with light waves? &gt;&gt; Well, Lauren, with light, we actually usually talk about wavelength, which is the distance between let's say, here and here. &gt;&gt; And light waves can have all sorts of wavelengths, but we can only see certain wavelengths. &gt;&gt; Which wavelengths can we see? &gt;&gt; The smallest we can see is 400 nanometers, and the largest is about 750. &gt;&gt; But, what's a nanometer? &gt;&gt; right, well, 1 nanometer is actually equal to 1 billionth of a meter. &gt;&gt; Well, what's the difference between the big ones and the small ones? &gt;&gt; Well, that's how we see color. Let me show you something. Here we can see that the waves with the long wavelengths are what we perceive as red, and this wavelength be about 750 nanometers. The shortest wavelength that we can perceive corresponds to violet light. And it's about 400 nanometers. Just longer than violet, is blue and then green, yellow and orange. &gt;&gt; So, when we perceive color our eyes are just taking in different wave lengths of light? &gt;&gt; Exactly, and this is where color vision comes in. We talked before about how at the back of our eyes we have these different photoreceptors, the rods and the cones. &gt;&gt; And the cones are the ones for color. &gt;&gt; Right, and we have three of them. &gt;&gt; Why do we have three? &gt;&gt; Well, I think I mentioned this before, that ones for long wavelengths, red and oranges. Another type of cones is for these medium wavelengths, these greens and yellows. And still another is for the short wavelengths. And in fact, the most common type of color blindness, actually makes it hard to distinguish between reds and greens. Alright, which cones do you think are affected in this type of color blindness? I would say your medium and long wavelength codes? &gt;&gt; Exactly. &gt;&gt; So, let's talk a bit more about color blindness. Look here, and tell me what do you see? &gt;&gt; I see a 74. &gt;&gt; Great. So, what that means is you're not color blind. &gt;&gt; Awesome. &gt;&gt; at least you're not red-green color blind. People whose long and medium wave length cones are not functioning a hundred percent may not be able to see 74 in here. And so, if a viewer at home can't see this, no big deal. But it does mean there's probably something a little funny going on with those cones. &gt;&gt; So, oh, it actually sounds like Susan is ready with the next event. And that's Depth Perception. Susan, over to you. &gt;&gt; Well, some of our sensees are off preparing for the next event. Shortly, they're going to be asked a series of questions to determine their depth perception. &gt;&gt; And Susan, can you explain to our viewers at home what you mean by depth perception? &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; Depth perception is our ability to perceive how far away something is from us. &gt;&gt; And it's all because we have two eyes, right. &gt;&gt; Sure, some of our depth perception cues are binocular, meaning two eye cues. The idea here is that each of our eyes takes in the slightly different version of the world, and our brain puts that information together. However, not all of our depth perception cues are binocular. &gt;&gt; Sorry, Susan. It looks like the competition is about to start. &gt;&gt; And we're going to let our viewers at home participate in this event, too. So, we'll get back to you with the results in just a minute. &gt;&gt; That's right, Lauren. So, we're going to show our viewers at home the same questions that are being shown to our contestants. So, sit back, enjoy, and see how you do on the depth perception event in [UNKNOWN]. &gt;&gt; So Andy, how'd you do on that one? &gt;&gt; I did okay, but I could have sworn the truck in the back was the biggest. &gt;&gt; I know those were really tough. So how does this depth stuff work? &gt;&gt; well, I think I understand binocular cues that Susan was talking about, these cues that require two eyes. &gt;&gt; basically it's the same way that 3D movies work. &gt;&gt; What do you mean by that? &gt;&gt; So, basically our brain's getting two different pictures. It takes the two different images, one from each eye, processes them and interprets them as depth. Wait, so we have two different images we're seeing? &gt;&gt; Yeah, put your hand up in front of your face, like this. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Now close your right eye. Okay, now, I want you to really quickly close your left eye and open your right eye at the same time. What happened? &gt;&gt; Oh, my thumb jumped. &gt;&gt; Did your thumb actually jump, Lauren? &gt;&gt; No, I guess I was just looking at it from a different angle, a different image from a different eye. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Different angles, different images, and your brain is able to perceive those as depth. So, how do the other cues work, the ones that require two eyes? &gt;&gt; You mean, the ones that require one eye? &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; So, those are called monocular cues. &gt;&gt; Oh, monocular. &gt;&gt; Distinguished from binocular. and actually, I'm not really certain. Why don't we go to Susan? Susan, how are things going over there? &gt;&gt; Great. I'm with Paul, our winner. &gt;&gt; Could you go into more detail about how we can perceive depth even when we're not using both eyes. &gt;&gt; Monocular cues, sure. Well, there's a thing called interposition, which is a fancy word for saying when one thing appears in front of the other, it's closer to you. So, for example, viewers at home know that this hand is closer because it appears in front of this one. &gt;&gt; That's interesting. So, are there any other monocular clues? &gt;&gt; Yes, linear perspective. But this one's a little more difficult to explain, so I'm going to send it back to the studio for you guys to do an illustration. &gt;&gt; All right. Thanks again, Susan. &gt;&gt; So, linear perspective. &gt;&gt; Right, so, I think I understand what's going on here. Take a look at this drawing of a road. It looks flat, but if we make the lines converge, like this, the lines go off in the distance. Well, here we perceive depth and that's linear perspective. And, since we can close one eye and still see this depth que, we call this a monocular depth que. &gt;&gt; That's really interesting. So, speaking of monocular que's, now I think it's a great time to go for a word from our sponsors. Hello. You may not know this from looking at me, but I am plagued with an unfortunate circumstance. You see, I'm nearsighted, which means the lenses in my eyes are a little, shall we say, overzealous, and they bend light just slightly too much. Since the light does not bend around my retina, my world is a blur. But of course, with every problem, there is a solution. By placing a diverging lens in front of my eyes, I could fix my faulty vision. And to think for years I was condemned to wearing glasses. Me. In glasses. [LAUGH] How passe! How cliche, I thought. I was as appalled then as I'm sure you are now, but, I did find a solution with Odin's eye monocles. With Odin's eye monocles, I can fix my vision with style, one eye at a time. It works with farsighted people, too. So, if I have trouble reading as I age, I can simply buy a converging lens to fix that problem as well. But, I know what you might be saying. What about your depth perception? How can you gauge distance if you only have one eye working at a time? Well, I laugh at your childish notion of binocular depth perception, for I have discovered that monocular cues have served me just fine. By looking at the relative size of objects or taken advantage of linear perspective or interposition. I have been able to gauge distance quite well. Quite well, indeed. &gt;&gt; [SOUND] &gt;&gt; Odin's eye. It worked for me. Will you let it work, for you? And we're back now this concludes the Sense Olympics. &gt;&gt; And it's been an amazing day for sensation and perception huh Lauren. &gt;&gt; Yes it has and I hope you've enjoyed this broadcast just as much Andy and I have enjoyed hosting it. &gt;&gt; And I hope you've learned something. We've covered a lot of content today but this is the end of the road for Lauren and I and we're going to send you back to Susan for some last words. Again I'm Andy. [MUSIC] &gt;&gt; And I'm Lauren. Keep on sensing. &gt;&gt; And perceiving. &gt;&gt; Thanks, you two. I've really enjoyed being on the ground level for the Sense Olympics. For you viewers at home, I hope you got a lot out of it. They will recap everything in just a moment. So again, thank you for watching the Sense Olympics. [MUSIC] Sensation and perception closing points. Humans have five sense organs, eyes, ears, nose, skin and tongue. These have evolved in humans and all animals to take in information from the outside world, and to allow the animal to adapt and respond to an ever-changing world. All sensory information gets translated from physical stimulation to neural information in the sense organs. From there, they get relayed by neurons to different parts of the brain where that information is interpreted and made sense of. The senses (sensation) and the brain (perception and thought) are part of the same process. Responding adaptively to our environment. It is also important to know and understand that our sense organs are limited and so we only take in part of the physical world. So, we never perceive the world as it is but only how our sense organs sense it and our brains perceive it. The only sure thing in life is that we're going to develop and change throughout our whole life. Like my little friend Sully here. He's only a toddler, but he's already reached so many developmental milestones. That's what we're going to discover today in Developmental Psychology. So, let's get started with some of the basics. Developmental psychologists study how we change from the cradle to the grave. When psychology was a new science, there was a great debate. This is called the nature vs nurture debate. Some psychologists believe that we were born a blank slate, or the Latin term table rasa. This means that our environment completely dictates who we are. Environment is everything with nurture. And then some psychologists believe that it's nature. Or as they like to say, the world within the skin. So, on the nature side, it's everything that we're born with, like our genetics that determine who we are. However, today we know that who we are is a function of both nature and nurture. It's a really complex interplay of these two things, and we can rarely separate the two when trying to explain different aspects of development. Take this hypothetical example of twins raised in different environments, their nature is the exact same, meaning their genetics are the same. But this one had access to music guitars and music lessons, this one didn't. So this one became a rock star, this one not so much. That's the difference between nature and nurture. What do you think these are influenced by? Nature, nurture or both? How the number of neuron in the brain changes over time. The development of your sense such as seeing, hearing, taste, touch or smell. Your ability to control your body. How we solve problems. How you interact with others. Select a box for each of these. The correct answer is, all of these are a factor of both nature and nurture. Development can be divided into six main stages on the timeline. Prenatal, infancy childhood, adolescence, adulthood and finally late adulthood. Within these stages there are domains or topics that psychologists are interested in. This focuses in the changes in our neurological structures in the brain. Then we have Sensory Development. This focuses on how our senses change as we develop. For example, how our vision develops. We also look at our physical and motor development. This looks at the development of our physical movement and body control. For example, when you crawl or walk. We also look at our cognitive development. This domain focuses on our ability to think, solve problems, learn new things and remember things. And finally, our social and emotional development. This focuses on things like attachment and how infants form attachments. And how those attachments will affect future relationships. These are just some of the aspects developmental psychologists are interested in. In this lesson, we'll go through each of the major stages of development, and discuss the changes during them. Some psychological domains are going to be more important in certain stages than in others. So, we might not go over all six domains in each stage of life, but we'll definitely touch on each of them. So, with that said, why don't we go on to see how these psychological processes unfold from conception to death. There are two facts about the human brain that are pretty mind-blowing. First, our brain is about 25% of its adult size when we're born. On the other hand, our bodies are only about 5% of the adult size when we're born. As humans, we have really big brains. And this is both why we're helpless when we're born, but also why we have such a capacity for learning. The brain isn't fully wired at birth. We only have a few instincts when we're born, such as suckling which is needed for feeding. So, we need experience to shape our brain, and that's exactly what experience does. It physically changes our brain. Now, the second cool fact is, how many neurons grow inside of the brain of a fetus. During prenatal neural growth, new neurons grow at an amazing rate of 250,000 neurons per minute. And this is the during the final stage of fetal development. Now, this amazing rate of neural growth continues into the first 18 to 24 months of life. Now, even though our brain grows and changes throughout life due to experiences such as learning or exercising, even eating different things, the rate of change does slow over time. And just because we have all of these neurons, it doesn't mean we necessarily use all of them. So let me ask you this what do you think happens if neurons don't receive stimulation? They just hang out until they're needed later in life. They bond to other neurons to strengthen them. They die off. They multiply. Give it a try. Just select one. If neurons don't receive stimulation, they die off. Remember Hebbs Law? Neurons that fire together, wire together. Or, if you don't use it, you lose it. Recall also the related idea of neuroplasticity from the brain lesson. Neurons grow and develop when they're used and stimulated by experience. And of course, our favorite, Hebb's Law. Neurons that fire together, wire together. Our brain neural growth are shaped by experience especially in the first few years of life. Neural growth is rampant in the womb and during the first year or two of life. But not all of this growth is happening just because of experience. Some of it happens just because we have such big, complex brains and they need to develop. All of this random neural growth ultimately does have a price to pay. These random neural connections that are not stimulated and strengthened due to experience end up dying off. Or in other words, they're pruned. And this is know as neural pruning. Is it Susan? Is it me, Lauren? Is it our six-year old friend, Blythe? Or is it baby Veronica? Try and select one. It's okay if you don't know the answer, but I want you to try to guess. The answer is Veronica. Susan has a PhD, I have a Master's Degree, she's awesome at recess, but still, it's the baby who has the most neurons. I know, it's crazy. I couldn't believe it when I first learned this either, but we have more neurons at age two than we have at any other time in our lives. But neurons only function when they're sending coordinated signals between other neurons. So, as we develop and learn more, and get more control over our bodies, neurons become more and more solidly connected. Remember from the brain lesson? Again, this goes with the if you don't use it, you lose it. Neurons that are not used are in fact lost. What do you think would happen to a toddler who received little to no stimulation? The toddler's brain would be smaller and less active than a toddler who receives stimulation. The toddler would have cognitive deficits such as lower IQ. The toddler would have social deficits. Check as many or as few as you would like. All three of these are accurate. After a year or two of under stimulation, a toddler's brain is both smaller and less active than a typical toddler who was stimulated. Underdeveloped neural growth translates to cognitive and intellectual deficit, such as lower IQ. This can be seen even when all nutritional needs are met, but the social or physical simulation is lacking. You'll see children who are severely delayed in development. In one interesting case, a girl has adopted grew eight inches in about a year as compared to normal two inches, given that human in social creatures. This shows how we not only need food but we need each other Again, this is neural-plasticity in action. Neurons develop and are strengthen with use and stimulation and die off when not used. That's why stimulation is so important. Especially for babies and toddlers who have tonnes of neurons waiting to form connections. After a year or two of being neglected or under-stimulated socially, emotionally, or cognitively. There's a noticable difference between toddlers who were stimulated, and toddlers who were under stimulated. Neuroplasticity in brain growth is not just an abstract idea. It can have serious and powerful effects on who we become. The brain is growing most as a fetus, and this is when we can get things really right or really wrong. What a pregnant mother eats or otherwise takes into her body, such as drinking something or chemical exposure, can dramatically affect brain development. Teratogens, or substances that can cause permanent damage to the developing embryo or fetus are really important here. What are two things you think pregnant mothers should avoid? Type them here and here. Here are a few answers that were pretty common among students: alcohol; smoking, which is also nicotine; different drugs, or really unhealthy foods. Some well known harmful teratogens are viruses such as the flu or rubella. Alcohol, nicotine, prescription drugs, such as anti-depressants, or radiation. It's interesting that all of these are particularly dangerous, during certain periods of pre-natal development. Viruses have a major impact early on in pregnancy. But not so much towards the end. Specifically, if a mom get the flu between month four and six of pregnancy, the risk of schizophrenia increases for the child later in life. Now the odds only go from about 1% to 4%, but it's a significant increase. In addition, nicotine exposure from maternal smoking can lead to low birth weight or even still birth. So this shows that the developing brain is really vulnerable to both environmental stimulation and toxic chemicals. That's why pre-natal care is so important to a developing fetus. Alcohol can cause serious damage. There's no known safe level of alcohol consumption during pregnancy. In the most serious cases, prenatal alcohol consumption can cause babies to be born with fetal alcohol syndrome disorder. The brain of a child with fetal alcohol syndrome never fully recovers or develops normally, as you can see in the difference of these two pictures. Sleep is really important for learning. This is especially true for infants. There's a particular stage of sleep called rapid eye movement sleep that helps learning the most. This is when your eyes actually move back and forth really, really quickly. But Greg, why don't you tell em a little bit about that? &gt;&gt; Sure Lauren. You know, as it turns out, when babies sleep, they spend about 75% of their time in rapid eye movement sleep. Adults on the other hand are only spending about 25% of their time in rapid eye movement sleep. Turns out this is not a coincidence. Because rapid eye movement sleep and brain growth are related. Neuroscientists tell us that rapid eye movement sleep in fact consolidates or makes stronger the neural growth involved in learning. So, babies' brains, because they're growing more, are spending more time in rapid eye movement sleep. So there's another period in life besides infancy in where there's a lots of brain growth and lots of sleep going on. Can you tell us what stage of life that might be? Is it childhood, adolescence, adulthood, or old age? &gt;&gt; Well. &gt;&gt; Oh, wait. Sorry Greg, let me stop you there. We're going to come back to this, when we get to that stage of development. First, let's finish talking about prenatal and infancy development, starting with sensory development. Our brain receives most of it's input from our senses. So, development of our senses is really important. We're going to focus on how two of our primary senses, seeing and hearing develop. So, I want you to think about this. Which of the following clip do you think is more like the way a new born experiences the world? Is it this one, with clear visuals and fuzzy audio? &gt;&gt; Hi baby! Can you smile? &gt;&gt; Or, is it this one, with clear audio, but fuzzy visuals? &gt;&gt; Hi baby! Can you smile? &gt;&gt; Give it your best shot and try to select one. The answer is, clear audio and fuzzy visuals. Babies can hear better than they can see. The neurons connecting the ear to the brain are complete at around 18 weeks after conception. So, does this mean a fetus can hear before it's born? The answer's yes. The auditory neural connections are made by about 18 weeks. But, the fetus doesn't start responding to sound until about 26 weeks or six months after conception. Fetuses actually find their mother's voice soothing and prefer the sound of the mother's voice over other voices. One example is researchers monitored the fetus' heart rate and found that it slowed when hearing the mother's voice, which showed that the fetus was able to attend or orient to its mother's voice. And it could calm him or her. However, an increase in heart rate would indicate fear or distress, and that doesn't happen when a fetus hears his own mother's voice. On the other hand, our vision still has a lot of developing to do after we're born. A newborn can only see at about 20-600, which isn't great at all considering that 20-20 is perfect vision. Objects need to be really close to a baby for them to be able to see it. It's not until at about age three or four when vision is similar to that of an adult. An interesting point to make is that newborns aren't great at seeing color. Our eyes have to develop in order for us to see color. Remember the rods and the cones in the eye? Our cones need to develop and merge to the center of the retina for us to see color in detail. When we were born, we primarily use our rods, which allow us to see black or white or light and dark. This is why babies are so fascinated with high contrast black and white designs. And when we get older, we use our rods and our cones. One interesting way we learned about babies' vision and depth perception is with the visual cliff task. And that's this. The researcher puts the baby on one end of the platform, and then there's a piece of plexiglass on the other side. This is so it looks like visual cliff. Then, the researcher asks the mom to stand on the other side of the plexiglass, so she would stand here. And she would call the baby to come to her. What do you think the baby would do? Type your answer here. First, I want you to know that this experiment was completely safe. The baby couldn't fall. The plexiglass could hold the baby's weight, and they also had a barrier around the sides of the platform. I didn't draw it here, that way, you could see the cute baby. This demonstrates to us that by the time the baby can crawl, he or she has developed the ability to perceive depth. We know this because they won't go over the cliff. If they couldn't tell depth, they would just keep going. That's cool, right? We learned more about sensation and perception studies during the earlier sensation and perception lesson. So, we just wanted to cover some of the interesting facts regarding human development. There's always more you can learn about sensation and perception development. If you want, you can check out the open source text. Just click on the link below. Or you can always raise questions in the forums. But for now, let's move on to cognitive development with Susan. For obvious reasons, we don't know what or if a fetus is thinking inside its mother's womb. But we do know a lot about what infants think. In fact, we know a lot about the development of cognitive abilities across the lifespan from Swiss psychologist Jean Piaget. Piaget argued for distinct stages of development across the lifespan. The first stage he termed the sensory motor stage. Infants lack verbal behavior. They cannot think about the past and they can't plan for the future, therefore they live very much in the present moment. In the here and now. However, they do interact with their world. They use their five senses. They can see, touch, taste, smell, and hear, and they use these senses to make sense of their world. This is what Piaget meant by the sensory part of sensory motor stage. Why do you think babies are constantly putting things in their mouths? Babies put things in their mouths to figure out what the object is. Is it food? Is it not food? That's pretty high-level thinking. Remember, they just have to use their sense organs. This is the motor part of the sensory motor stage. The babies have to move around, pick up objects in order to interact with their world. So, I have a question for you guys? Where is the duck? Is it under the towel, or does it no longer exist? If you answered, it not longer exists then you might be a baby. Because the duck is under the towel, of course. But Piaget explains that infants think and live and the they hear now, meaning they can't understand if they [INAUDIBLE] statements. For example, if I cover the duck with the towel, then the duck is under the towel of course. So, given what we know about infants' cognitive capabilities. We know that when the duck is covered, they think it no longer exists. This is similar to what Piaget did. He took a toy from a six to seven month old infant, and then covered it up with a blanket or towel. And found that infants would look at this and be really confused, but then just go on to do something else, because they totally that the toy even exists. This is what Piaget called object permanence. The abilitiy to understand an object is permemant even if you can't sense it. This is why babies think pee a boo is so much fun. The adult keeps appearing and disappearing behind their hands. But notice that infants grow out of enjoying pee a boo when they develop the cognitive capability to understand object permanence. In addition to our cognitive development, our social and emotional development is really important. Why do you think it is that mammals and birds are so connected to our caregivers early in life, but fish and reptiles aren't? Well, it's a bit complicated, but it really boils down to this: mammals and birds need our caregivers to survive. Fish and reptiles don't. Warm blooded animals form close bonds with their care givers. This is what psychologists call attachment. Now, Greg is going to explain to you guys about the first psychologist who showed us just how important attachment is in development. So, in the 1950s and 60s, British psychologist by the name of John Bowlby developed a theory called attachment. And this was based on two observations. The first observation was made by the animal behaviorist Konrad Lorenz. And Lorenz had seen in baby geese that whoever cared for them became their mother. it's not all that weird until you realize that the mother could be a human, didn't have to be a goose. And this is what he called imprinting. The second observation was made by Sigmund Freud. And Freud had observed that when mothers go away from babies that the baby becomes really distressed, really upset. And this, he called separation anxiety. So, it was imprinting on the one hand and separation anxiety on the other hand that led John Bowlby to develop a theory for why attachment to the caregiver is. So important in early stages of human development. Thanks Greg for telling us about bubble bee. So, now I have a question. What is it that social attachments give us? Take a second to think about it, then type your response here. Having strong attachments is vital to life. We wouldn't be able to live as babies if we didn't have people taking care of us. Also, our attachments are a foundation for future relationships. Bobby further developed his theory of attachment on two fundamental assumptions. First, a responsible and accessible caregiver, creates a secure base for a child's development. Second, the primary bonding relationship becomes a mental mold for all future friendships and love relationships. So, here, humans are the most defenseless and vulnerable creatures on the planet the first few months after they're born. We have virtually no ability to do much of anything, except cry and nurse. Therefore, during the first few years of life, having a stable, reliable and accessible caregiver is crucial for ones physical growth, cognitive growth and social growth. It's just crucial for our very survival. If the caregiver is neglectful or doesn't look after the baby's needs or even abuses them, then all aspects of the child's development can be stunted. And here, if a secure attachment forms between the caregiver and the cared for or the child, then the child grows up thinking that this is how a relationship works. They're reliable and they're a source of security. And all future friendships and love relationships start with this assumption. Likewise, if a child is neglected and didn't form a secure attachment, then that's the assumption the person takes with them through all of their life relationships. One of Bowlby's students, Mary Ainsworth, decided to test his theory in a lab, by creating situations of security and separation between infants and caregivers. She called this the Strange Situation Test. Ainsworth would have the caregiver and the baby come to the lab. The caregiver was often the mother. And the baby was between six to 12 months old. She would let the two get comfortable in the lab and just hang out. Then Ainsworth would have the caregiver leave the room for a few minutes, then Ainsworth would observe how the baby responds when his or her caregiver is gone. Ainsworth focused on two things. First, how the baby reacted when the caregiver left. Second, is how the baby reacted when the caregiver returned. Ainsworth had hundreds of babies and caregivers go through this strain situation test. What she found was clear evidence for three distinct kinds of attachment styles. Ainsworth used three terms to describe her attachment theories. Secure Attachment, Anxious Ambivalent Attachment and Avoidant Attachment. Given the name, what do you think an Avoidant Attachment is? Is it this one, where the babies cry and become very distressed when the caregiver leaves? But once the caregiver returns, gives them warm hugs, and settles down fairly quickly. Is it this one where the babies are distressed most of the time, especially when the caregiver leaves. But when the caregiver returns the baby will go to the caregiver but there won't be any warm hugs going on and the baby might even push the caregiver away. Or Babies are not distressed at any time. Not when the caregiver leaves, not when the caregiver returns, and there's no warm hugs or affection at any time either. The caregiver is basically ignored. Give it your best shot and select one. This is the correct option. Here, let me explain. About 20 to 25% of babies have an avoidant attachment style. Ainsworth described this as a baby who is not distressed at any time. Not when the caregiver leaves, not when the caregiver returns. And there's no warm hugs or affection at any time either. The caregiver is basically ignored. So, now let's come back to this screen. We know that this is an avoidant attachment. Given the name, what do you think an anxious ambivalent attachment is? Is it this one where the baby cries and becomes very distressed when the caregiver leaves. But gives the caregiver warm hugs when the caregiver returns, and settles down very quickly? Or is it this one? The baby is distressed most of the time, especially when the caregiver leaves, and goes to the caregiver when the varegiver returns, but doesn't give the caregiver warm hugs. It might even push the caregiver aeway. This is a right choice. Let me explain. About 10 to 15% of babies have an anxious and ambivalent attachment style. Babies are distressed most of the time, especially when the caregiver leaves. Babies go to the caregiver when he or she returns but there are no warm hugs and there might even be some pushing away of the caregiver. The final attachment style is secure attachment, and about 65% of babies have a secure attachment. Babies with secure attachments cry and become really distressed when the caregiver leaves. But when the caregiver returns, the baby offers warm hugs, and the baby will settle down fairly quickly. Attachment is a great example of how nature and nurture both influence our development. We are born with a temperament which can influence how we attach to our caregivers, but we also have to consider nurture or the experience our caregivers provide us. This can also affect our attachment to them. [UNKNOWN] believed that attachment was based on how a parent interacted with the child. If the parent was secure and warm towards the child, then the child would have a secure attachment. If the parent was anxious or avoidant, then the child would have that same type of attachment. However, recent research shows that this is an over simplification. Children are born with a biologically based temperament. Some are really easy going, others might get distressed really easily. It's temperament that interacts with parenting style, and that creates attachment style. At least two lines of research have looked at the critical importance of bonding, attachment, and social stimulation in a child's development. First, is Harry Harlow. In the 1950s, he wanted to examine what was more important: food or affection. Now, for ethical reasons you'll see in a moment he was unable to use human infants. So instead, he used baby monkeys. &gt;&gt; He did so by manipulating food and affection. He created two mothers. One was a wire mother that offered food. The other was a cloth mother that offered affection and warmth. &gt;&gt; Now the baby monkeys had an opportunity to chose either mother. Which mother do you think the baby monkeys chose? The answer is a cloth monkey. The baby spent nearly all of its time with this mother, and would even cling to this mother to lean over to feed from the wire mother. This really showed us that food and nutrition aren't the only things that go into attachment. We need a warm secure caregiver also to form an attachment. So remember then we see that attachment is not just about food and nutrition. In fact other studies have shown that animals will choose a fake mother that resembles their own. How do you think these baby monkeys developed socially? Unfortunately, the baby monkeys did not develop well socially. In fact, they were aggressive, anti-social, and if they did become parents themselves, they were abusive to their offspring. These monkeys did not have any role models to teach them how to parent or how to interact with other monkeys. &gt;&gt; That's right. And that's why Harlow's research was criticized so much by ethical groups. &gt;&gt; Although it was completely legal in the time before the Animal Welfare Act told us we had to treat animals ethically. &gt;&gt; However, it does demonstrate an important part about development. It reinforces the idea that we are social creatures and we need to have interactions for aappropriate development. The study that showed the critical importance of attachment bonding in social stimulation and development is the Tiffany Field's 1979 study. She studied newborns who were whisked away from their mothers right after they were born. Either cause they were born prematurely or they were too small or they were at risk of not surviving. She got permission from a hospital to do an experiment where she has two groups. So, half the babies that were preterm or at risk received the standard care. And that treatment was removal from mom, and isolated in a germ-free incubator. The other half of the preterm at risk babies received the new treatment. This was 15 minutes of skin to skin touching and stroking from the nurse, every single day. What do you think the outcome was for Tiffany Field's study? Babies without the touch treatment were more aggressive towards other babies in the hospital. The babies who did receive the touch treatment left the hospital sooner, and gained weight faster than the babies who weren't touched. Or, there was no difference between the two groups of babies. Select one. The babies who received 15 minutes of touch time every day from a nurse, actually left the hospital sooner than babies who didn't. And they gained weight faster. The outcome after a few months was dramatic. Babies who are touched gained weight faster, left the hospital sooner, and also had less cognitive and physical deficits. They also had higher IQ's at age three. All this was just because of touch. We now know that touch stimulates neural development. So it's now common practice for hospitals to allow newborns to rest on their mother's chest immediately following birth unless there's a serious reason to believe that the newborn is in trouble. So, continuing with cognitive development and Piaget stages, we're going to move on to childhood development. Here we the preoperational stage, this covers the preschool years, from about 2 to 6 depending on the person. So, what makes something preoperational? To answer that, we need to know what operational is. An operation is a mental ability to figure something out in ones head. It's like problem solving, or trying to do a math problem in your head. Well, young children can't quite do this yet, so they're preoperational. For children experience is based on a single feature. For example height, not necessarily height, weight, length, altogether. Children can't conserve, meaning they don't release even if the shape changes, the volume the size and the amount can stay the same. The classic example here is liquid. If one takes two identical glasses and pour the exact same amount of liquid in each, then ask them which one has more liquid. They're going to tell you they have the same amount. But, if you take a short, fat glass like this and have them pour it onto a tall, thin glass like this, and then ask them which one has more, they're going to tell you that the tall, thin glass has more of the liquid. Because the liquid comes up higher. This is a perfect example of them only focusing on one feature, height. Older children and adults know that what we gain in height, we lose in width. So, it's the exact same amount of liquid, they're conserved. But younger children usually under the age of six, can't do this mental calculation. They can be fooled by appearance. Egocentric thinking is the inability to look at the world through somebody else's perspective. Piaget came up with a very clever test to measure this, called the Three Mountain Test. Here, he would have a child sit and look at these three mountains and tell him from direction of left to right what he says. So, from your perspective the child would see a blue top mountain, a plane mountain and a red top mountain. Next, you would ask a child what somebody in my position would see. Inevitably the child would say, I would see the same thing, meaning a blue top mountain, a plain mountain and a red top mountain. However, as you can see my perspective, I actually would see a red top mountain, a plain mountain and a blue top mountain. Again, egocentric thinking is an inability of the child to take himself out of his own skin, and look at the world from somebody else's perspective. During roughly the elementary school years, from about seven to 11, give or take, children move into the third stage of cognitive development according to PAJ. He called this stage the Concrete Operational Stage. Now, we already defined operation, as the ability to figure things out just in ones head. So, this is the primary skill at this age. One of the best examples of this, is how children at this stage can do basic math just in their head. For example, 5 plus 5 is 10. They no longer need to count, add or subtract using their fingers or other objects. Conservation is now possible because of the mental capability of saying something, like, oh. Well, those 2 look different. But I know that that's really the same. Concrete refers to the fact that children in this stage reason and think about concrete things. Not abstract ones. Abstract ideas and reasoning happen in the next and final stage of cognitive development, Formal Operations, which begins in adolescence. So, with adolescents comes a new kind of cognitive ability according to Piaget and he called this stage formal operational. He called it formal operational because formal logic, or making inferences is possible for the first time. This stage begins around age 12 and goes up through adulthood. And the hallmark characteristic of formal operational thinking is the ability to think about abstract ideas and also, the ideal. So, for instance we start to wonder about what we believe about religion, about politics, and whether what our parents told us is really beliefs that we hold. We also get into gaming, and avatars, and fantasy. Because those things are about the ideal and the possible rather than the real. So, another cognitive skill that we see in formal operations is called metacognition, and metacognition is the ability to think about your thinking, to reflect on your beliefs. So, for instance, we see this in hypothesis testing and scientific reasoning. And an hypothesis testing requires that the person understand that what they believe is tentative, may or may not be true and needs to be tested against evidence. So, this is a scale that we see in formal operational thinking. So, another important point to make about formal operational thinking, is that in contrast to the other stages of cognitive development, progression through it is not automatic. So we see even in adults who have superstitious beliefs for instances, and these beliefs are not tested against evidence. And in fact, when you ask people for why these believe these things like belief in UFOs or palm reading or astrology, people say, oh I just believe it. It's just true. So, just because you're an adolescent or an adult doesn't automatically mean you're thinking formally or scientifically or critically. So it's not just thoughts that are changing during adolescence, it's also your brain. So we're going to throw you back to Lauren who will tell you about brain changes in adolescence. Do you remember this question that Greg asked? Well, the answer is, during your teenage years, this is another time when your amount of REM sleep increases. So, does the amount of neural growth. The human brain is still growing into early adulthood. Neurons though, never stop growing, even if the rate of growth does slow over time. The biggest region of brain growth in adolescents occurs in the frontal lobes. Which allow us to think abstractly, plan, control impulses and to think critically, and scientifically. Teenagers are much more likely to do impulsive and risky things, because their frontal lobes are still growing and maturing. Driving a car really, really fast while not wearing a seatbelt, or skateboarding off of a 5-foot stair handrail seems perfectly reasonable to many teenagers. The brain isn't our only change during adolescence though. Let's go check in with Susan, who's going to explain the other physical changes that we go through. As anybody who's gone through adolescence knows, the body undergoes great changes during that time. In fact, during puberty our bodies and brains change more than at any other time in development except for early childhood. Puberty is the onset of sexual maturity. We experience a growth spurt. Both sexes begin to grow hair around their genitals and underarms. And men will begin to grow facial hair. Women also start to develop breasts, and begin menstruating. The technical term for the onset of menstruation is menart. Whereas the term for the development of sperm through ejaculation is termed sperm mark. The pituatary gland is critcial in the onset of puberty because it release hormones including our sex hormones. For women the main sex hormone is estrogen where as for men it's testosterone. It's important to note that both men and women have estrogen and testosterone but women have more estrogen and men have more testosterone. As we'll see when we get to the section on motivation, our sex drive, both men and women's, is largely a function of testosterone. Now let's go back to Lauren, and see the last part of our psychological domain in adolescence. I want to start this with a question. What do you think are the most important parts of social and emotional development during your teenage years? There is no right or wrong answer here. Just take a minute to think about what you believe is the most important aspect of our social and emotional development during our teens. Fill in your answer here. There are a lot of important parts of social and emotional development that are important during our teenage years. Let's discuss it a little more. No one has to be told that adolescence is about friendships and relationships. Now, rejection is not easy at any age, but its especially traumatic during your teenage years. Because nothing is more important than being accepted and liked by your peers. Thats why teens who are bullied or rejected are at a much higher risk of suicide. The other important social change during adolescence is a shift from your family to your friends as your main source of social support. As teens we start to identify less with our parents, and we may even reject them. Or at least their social beliefs and opinions. And we start to agree more with our friends and our peers. Of course, a major focus of our teenage years is on sexual relationships, whether that be reality or fantasy. Sexual thoughts occupy a lot of a teenager's mind, and it's really common for teens to talk about sexual relationships with their friends. Everyone goes through a period of figuring out who they're attracted to, and who is attracted to them. Sexual identity involves figuring out who we are sexually, what we like and don't like, and who we're attracted to. Recent surveys of American teens have reported that around 88% of teenagers describe themselves as predominantly heterosexual. About 1 to 2%of teens describe themselves as predominantly homosexual or bisexual. And about 10% of teens describe themselves as being confused about their sexual orientation. Now, the formation of your identity also revolves around experimenting and trying other adult type behaviors, such as drinking alcohol or doing drugs. As the psychologist, Erik Erikson put it, being a teen involves forming our identity in at least three main areas. Sexual, Ideological and occupational. We form our identity through our relationships, that's the sexual part. Our political and religious beliefs, that's the ideological part. And through career choices, that's the occupational part. To put it simply, being a teenager means trying to figure out who we like, what we believe, and what career is best suited for us. Once you get out of your teenage years, you enter adulthood. Historically, many cultures have different rites of passage. For example, the Jewish traditions of a Bar or Bat Mitzvah. Now, what would you say makes someone an adult? Some people believe you're an adult when you're 18, or when you you can legally vote. Or, when you can legally buy alcohol. So, in the US, that would be age 21. But others don't look at it as an age. There are two major tasks in adulthood, that's supporting yourself with a job or a career and forming intimate relationships. When it comes to forming intimate relationships: about 90% of US adults get married at some point in their life, and about 85% have children. The age at which people get married changes from generation to generation, as we can see here. In the 1890s, the median age for the first marriage for men was about 26. And for women, it was about 22. The age of first marriage were really low in the 1950s. And now they're at an all time high, with men marrying around age 27, and women marrying around age 25. Now I want to present you with three questions. I really want you to think about this and discuss it with your peers on the forum. First, I want you to think about how old your parents were when they got married, if they got married. Now does this significantly differ from when you got married, or from when you actually want to get married? Why yes or why no? Heres the second question. Why do you think theres a shift in the age people get married? And the last question. What are the main things that make you think that you are, will be, or were ready to get married? So go to the forum and lets talk about this. Im really excited to see what you guys say. I think this is going to be a great discussion that we can have. It's interesting to note that most adults become parents. However, when they become parents seems to be particularly associated with personality. For example, one study found that shy men have children later in life than extroverted or outgoing men do. On the other hand, Shy women actually have children sooner than extroverted or outgoing women. Why do you think this is? Now, let's move on to late adulthood. Piaget stages of cognitive development focus mostly on infancy through early adulthood. This last phase started in adolescence and covered the remainder of the life. Piaget did not have a distinct stage for late adulthood or old age. At what age do you think people's mental ability starts to decline? Is it in their 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s, or never, they remain sharp their entire lives. Developmental psychologists have discovered some changes that occur in late adulthood, beginning in the late 60s and early 70s. These changes are slower processing and limited working memory, but this is universal, it's not dementia, which is a much more serious form of cognitive impairment. We do see however that as neural processing slows down it doesn't stop. Therefore, people in their 70s can learn lot's of new things, such as languages and even new technologies. Given what we know about neuroplasticity what do you think aging adults can do to keep their brains healthy. They can try to learn new things. They can continue practicing things they already know how to do. They should drink lots and lots of alcohol. They can incorporate physical exercise into their daily routines. They can socialize with others or they can play with pets. Choose as many or as few as you would like. Trying to learn new things will really help keep the brain healthy. Because the more things they do that require new learning, the more neural growth there is. If you chose this, continuing to practice things I already know, that won't hurt. It'll make the neural connections stronger. Drinking a lot of alcohol is not a good choice. Staying physically fit is always a good idea. And socializing with others, or playing with pets, neither one would hurt. But I would say, the most important, would be to try to learn new things. But now let's go talk about the different types of intelligence, and how they're important in later adult life. One of the more solid findings of cognitive change in late adulthood is between two kinds of intelligence: crystallized intelligence and fluid intelligence. Crystallized intelligence is what we know from experience, culture, learning and education. Crystallized intelligence is used when we try to solve problems that we've seen before. Fluid intelligence is a more pure intelligence. It's raw processing speed, your mental quickness and abstract reasoning. This is used when we attempt to solve problems that we've never seen before. It might help to look at these on the graph. Here, we see crystallized intelligence, in this area. What's clear with aging is that crystallized intelligence doesn't decline. However, as we see here with fluid intelligence, it does begin to decline at about middle adulthood. An abnormal cognitive decline is sometimes seen in some people in late adulthood, and this is called dementia. The most common form of dementia, I'm sure some of you've heard of is called Alzheimer's disease. This is a degenerative disease of the brain that seriously impairs cognitive functioning, for example, memory, language, and mood. It eventually impares brain functioning so much that it leads to a loss of bodily control and function, and eventually death. So, the last stage of life is of course death. Now, it's sobering to think about, but we're all going to to die and we all know we're going to die. Different people respond to death in different ways. These differences are best seen in cases where people know that they're going to die in advance and have time to prepare for it. For example, someone with a terminal illness. The psychologist Elisabeth Kbler-Ross developed the most widely known and applied psychological model of people's response to death. People go through predictable stages with their own death. Most people go through all of these stages, but some stages may be more intense than others. The five stages are denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. Can you describe what you think the denial stage consists of. Initially, when first learning of their limited time, people often deny it thinking no doc, you must have had the wrong chart. Next, people often get angry and feel upset, that why is this happening to me? This isn't fair. That's followed by bargaining, which involves negotiating with God for more time. Please, if you just let me live, I promise, blank. When it finally hits that this really is the end, people often feel depressed and a sense of hopelessness prevails. Next, death and all that it means can be accepted and even embraced. People are at peace with their impending exit from this earth. Do you thnink this is similar to coping with the death of a loved one? Why or why not? Discuss this on the forum. Rather than ending on a morbid note, let's go back for a recap of the lesson. Development closing points. If mothers are exposed to toxic chemicals while pregnant, the cognitive and neural development of the fetus may be permanently affected. Babies spend more time in REM sleep than adults do because there is more neural growth going on. Children are born with a biologically based temperament that interacts with parenting style to create attachment styles. Attachment and emotional contact is just as important as food for healthy development in infants and young children. The adolescent brain is still growing and this affects teens' ability to control their impulses. The intelligence we gain from experience does not decline as we enter late adulthood but our processing speed, mental quickness and abstract reasoning capabilities do. Humans develop in a similar way although the age at which we reach developmental milestones differs from person to person. Consciousness is truly an amazing phenomenon. Now think about it, you, as this collection of atoms, obeying the laws of physics, can be aware. You're aware of your mental activity, of your emotional state, even of your external environment. &gt;&gt; That's right. Have you ever been so involved in a task, such as writing a paper or playing a game, that you've lost track of time? Or perhaps you've been daydreaming at work when you should really be working. Or have you ever wondered what happens when people take mind altering drugs? These are all examples of questions related to the study of consciousness. &gt;&gt; Now as you're going to see, consciousness can be measured on a continuum, from fully conscious. &gt;&gt; For example when you're awake and aware of your surroundings. &gt;&gt; To not conscious at all. &gt;&gt; For example if you were in a coma and unaware of your surroundings. In fact Grey has a personal example that he's going to share with us. So we can also talk about near, total unconsciousness, coma for instance. In fact, a coma is brain activity so you're not dead.but its just one step up from being dead. For instance, my brother back in the 90s was involved in a very serious accident. He was riding his bike home from work. And the woman who was driving the car turned right into him, didn't see him, and he hit the windshield. He went into a serious coma, very deep coma, for two weeks. And then for about six months, he was vegetative. His eyes were open but he was still really quite non-responsive. So during this time, he went from near death to a very gradual awakening in consciousness. In fact, I kept wondering what was he aware of? Was he aware of anything? Could he hear us? Could he think? Could he remember? We just didn't know. At times, we may be very excited and stimulated, and very much aware of ourselves. Other times we may be tired, and not very aware. That is we're awake, but we're not aware. Now it's important to understand, that our consciousness changes throughout the day. And this brings us to our two main dimensions of consciousness, wakefulness and awareness. So let's go take a closer look at how these play a role in our consiousness. As I said before, there are two different dimensions of consciousness. You have wakefulness and awareness. So we can be awake, which is exactly what it implies. How awake are we, or are we asleep? And then we can be aware, or alert. This means to what extent are we aware? Of both our external surroundings and our internal world, meaning how we feel emotionally. Like are we afraid, excited, or are we aware that we're in physical pain? Such as having a headache or perhaps a pulled muscle? And this is also being aware of our cognitions, so what it is that we're thinking. Here, let's look at this on a diagram. We have awareness and wakefulness. We can have minimal consciousness meaning we're not aware or awake, which would be here. This would be an example of a coma. Or we could be fully aware and awake, we'd be up here. So this would be something like practicing the piano maybe. How about in the middle of the continuum, so moderate consciousness? Think about this. Have you ever been asked a question by a friend, something like, what is the name of that restaurant we went to for Homer's birthday last month? You know that you know the answer to that question, but you just can't bring it to the level of consciousness that allows you to respond appropriately. Most of us have had experiences such as this. Whether it's an acquaintance's name that we should know, we just can't remember it, the name of a restaurant, or even a movie that we've seen. All of these are examples of something called the tip of the tongue phenomenon. Now, where would you place tip-of-the-tongue phenomenon on this chart? Would it go here? Not very awake and not very aware. Would it go here? Really aware but you're not awake. Would it go here where you're not aware but you are awake? Or would it go here where you're awake, but not completely aware? Select one that you think is where the tip-of-the tongue phenomenon would be on this chart of awareness and wakefulness. So, the more awake you are, you're over here and the more aware you are, you're up here. So tip-of-the-tongue phenomenon would typically go in this area, because you're awake, but you're not fully capable of bringing something to your awareness. So you're not totally aware. So now, I want you to place the following activities in the appropriate boxes on the consciousness chart. Deep sleep, coma, practicing the piano, lucid dreaming, which means knowing that you are dreaming, and vegetative state. Place the appropriate number in the appropriate box on this chart of awareness and wakefulness. Remember, farther up means you're really aware, farther down means you're not aware. Farther to the right means you're really awake, farther to the left means you're not awake. Deep sleep, we go around here, because you're not very awake and you're not very aware. However, coma, we go here, because you're not aware at all, nor are you awake. Practicing the piano, we go up here, because you're very aware of what's going on and you're also awake. Lucid dreaming would be here, because you're not awake, but you are aware of what's going on. And finally vegetative state would go here, because you might be completely awake, you're not aware of what's going on. Let's take a closer look at full consciousness. Now, psychologists use two terms to describe it. First, do you remember when Susan asked if you've ever been so involved in an activity that you've completely lost track of time? Well, this is what psychologists call flow. Think of a sport, or a hobby, or just some activity that you're really good at doing. Your attention becomes so focused on this activity that time flies. Hours feel like minutes. You're so engaged that time doesn't even matter. The second and last example of full consciousness is mindfulness. This is when a person has a heightened sense of awareness, and is focusing on the present. So if you're being mindful you're actively paying attention to your immediate surroundings and what you're thinking. Research has actually shown that practicing mindfulness techniques can reduce stress levels and anxiety and it can actually be a really good treatment for depression... Hey. Hey you, are you listening? Are you paying attention to this lesson or are you off daydreaming or surfing the Internet? Well, I personally hope you're paying attention, because I'm about to tell you something really awesome about consciousness, and a fundamental aspect of it. And that's attention. Attention is our ability to focus on a specific aspect of our environment, and to be conciously aware of this. Now, it's important to remember that this is a conscious effort to focus our attention. Psychologists focus on two main types of attention, that's Selective attention and Sustained attention. Here, check out the YouTube video that we posted a link to in the instructor's notes box. This video's on one of my personal favorite psychology studies by Simons and Chabris. Watch the video real quick, and then I have a question about it. This was an example of selective attention which is our ability to pay attention to our environment while ignoring certain aspects of our environment. For example you may be watching TV, while a friend is talking to you. You can't focus your attention equally on the two demands, your friend and the TV. So you're not fully absorbing what's coming from either one. Did you see the gorilla walk into the group then walk away, before they brought it to your attention? Yes or no? Choose one. If you said no, don't worry. Because about half of the students who watch this are surprised to learn that a person dressed as a gorilla walked through the group, beat on his chest, then walked away. So how could we not have noticed this gorilla walking through the group? Well, we explain this through Selective Attention. The students were so focused on paying attention to the ball passing that they weren't aware of the gorilla. The technical term for this type of situation is Inattentional Blindness. This happens when we're so engaged and paying attention to one thing, that we don't notice something. Even if it's as unusual as something as a gorilla in a place where it shouldn't be. Now, the take home message here is that, if we selectively pay attention to one thing. Our ability to pay attention to other things decreases. And we might not even be able to notice unusual stimuli. The cocktail party effect is another example of selective attention. Now imagine you're in a room having a conversation with your friends about how much you love your Introduction to Psychology at Udasity class. And how everybody should take it. Then all of a sudden you heard your name from across the room. In this example you're selectively attending to the conversation you were having. Yet still heard your name across a noisy room with a bunch of other conversations going on. So you were able to filter out the background auditory stimuli that wasn't important, that was the background conversations. Yet you were still able to focus on the important stimulus which was your name. So that background information came to the foreground. Did you notice anything different in the last video of me? Watch that video again, and see how many changes you can notice. There were how many changes? There were three major changes. Did you notice that I changed my earrings, or that my hair was up and then it was down, or that the color of the shirt I was wearing changed? This is what we call change blindness. This refers to when not noticing when something changes. A lot of magicians will use change blindness, or inattentional blindness to for less during illusions So think about this scenario. You're sitting in class. Your professor is telling you everything that's going to be on your exam, and you really need to write all this down, but you forgot a pen so the girl next to you lends you one. Okay, now you have your pen, back to focusing on what the professor is saying. And ignoring the fact that the room is freezing and the guy to your right is smacking his gum. Oh, man, there's so much on the slide to write down before the professor moves on, hurry, write, write, write, but wait. Why are people laughing? You look around and you notice that people are looking at a guy standing outside the window with roses. And a huge sign that says I love you Torry, be mine. The girl next to you said that guy recited a poem using like ten poster boards, while doing an interpretive dance. How on earth did you miss that? Well, back to writing before the slide changes. You're almost done writing the list of topics for your final when you hear two people behind you talking about your favorite band and saying they're going to the concert next week. Oh, man, you've got to get tickets for that concert. Oh no. Slide just changed. Okay, now you have to focus on your professor's closing remarks. Because this is the essay portion of the exam. You know, it's going to be hard, but you can do it. Okay, so now class is over. You turn and give the pen back to the girl you borrowed it from, but you notice that she's not there, it's a guy sitting next to you and he's sleeping on his desk. When did that happen? So now I have a question for you. It's going to involve the story from the last video, so if you weren't clear on that, listen to it again. In this scenario, name the part that your selective attention, inattentional blindness, change blindness, and cocktail party effect. Put the appropriate letters in the appropriate box. Now, more than one image can represent a part of each one of these. This might be a little bit difficult, but give it a try, or listen to the story again and see if you can figure it out. If you can't get it, go on to the solution video, and let's talk through it. So first, our selective attention is when we're focusing on what the professor's saying and ignoring when the room is cold or the person by us is smacking. Your inattentional blindness is when you didn't notice that there was a man outside doing interpretive dance and reciting a poem saying I love you Tory, be mine, but everybody else in class noticed. Here, when you heard the people behind you talking about your favorite band, this was a cocktail party effect. Given you're focusing on the essay, here again, we have selective attention. And finally, when you realize the girl you borrowed the pen from was no longer sitting next to you and it was now a guy that was sleeping on his desk. This was your change blindness. Now, let's move on to the second type of attention that psychologists focus on. That's sustained attention. We have the ability to focus our attention on a task, or a target for an extended period of time. Now, this can be really difficult to do, but a lot of jobs require it. For example surgeons, truck drivers, or pilots have to be able to focus for an extended period of time. There's one less area of consciousness that we're going to discuss before moving on to sleeping and dreaming. This is meditation. Now, there's many different forms of meditation but, in essence meditation is the ability to become more mindful. Do you remember when we talked about mindfulness a little while ago in the lesson? Well, by using different meditation techniques, people who've been able to increase their ability to be more present, in the moment, and also increase their attention to their thoughts and feelings. Once again, research has demonstrated that those who score high in mindfulness also report greater well-being. Reduction in stress and anxiety have also been reported for those who practice meditation. So, we know that meditation is linked to overall feelings of well-being, but does meditation only effect self reported changes in feelings? New research has actually shown that meditation increases the growth of brain tissue in the areas that are important in emotional processing and attention. In this study, half of the people were trained in meditation and engaged in meditation for eight weeks. The other half were randomly assigned to the control group, and they did not meditate. At the end of the study, the changes in brain tissue were also associated with emotional well-being in those that meditated. This nicely demonstrates how changes in our environment can change our brain. So, here's a question. Was the study I just talked about a correlational research design or an experimental research design? Select one. If you remember correctly from our research methods lesson, this was an experimental design. So what was the dependent variable in this experimental design? And what was the independent variable of this experimental design? And can we make it a causal statement, yes or no? The dependent variable was a variable that was being measured, that was the brain tissue. And the independent variable was the variable that was being manipulated the researcher, and this was meditation. Because this was an experimental design, we can make a causal statement. We can say that the change in brain tissue was most likely caused by meditation. Let's switch gears and talk a little bit about sleep and dreaming, and how that relates to our consciousness. So why do we sleep? Is our brain responsive while we sleep? Can we hear while we sleep? Can we be consciously aware of our dreams? All of these are types of questions that psychologists have researched for a really long time. And we're going to go over a few of the answers in this section of the lesson. We're going to look at the biological purpose of sleep. What happens during sleep, and what happens if we don't get enough sleep? I promise you, it's not good, because sleep is imperative for us to function as healthy human beings. We really need sleep for both our physical and mental health. So let's start by looking at our sleep patterns. Our sleep patterns are a result of Circadian rhythms which are biological processes that occur over approximately a 24-hour cycle. For example throughout a 24-hour period, our bodies will change in temperature. It'll peak a few hours before we go to bed. And soon after we wake up, but it will decrease when we're asleep. Production of certain chemicals, such as Melatonin. They will change our alertness throughout the day. I mentioned Melatonin, this is produced in the Pineal Gland, and it's important for sleep. It causes drowsiness and lowering of the body temperature. People can be different chronotypes, meaning they function best at different times of the day. Have you heard the term night owl or morning person? Well, these are different chronotypes. A night owl or an evening person is more likely to rise later in the day and is more alert later in the day into the evening. Whereas a morning person tends to wake up early. They're most efficient in the morning and alert during the day. What chronotype are you? Are you a morning person or an evening person? I asked around my office, and found that most people who work at Udacity are evening people. Only about 30% of them were morning people, but that could just be unique to the people who work at Udacity. We see that some people are naturally morning people and others are naturally evening people when it comes to being awake and alertness levels throughout the day. But regardless of when we sleep and rise, why do we sleep? Can you think of two reasons why we sleep? There are many reasons why we need sleep. Yes, of course, one is because we're tired so we need a sleep. But sleeping helps us perform at our mental and physical best. Sleeping is also really good for our health. Many biological psychologists have studied the function and purpose of sleep by studying brain activity while people are sleeping. Now, as busy as we all are, I'm sure we'd love to stay up a few more hours to hang out with friends, or get more work done. Or watch a marathon of our favorite TV show. But as it turns out, the effects of not getting enough sleep are seriously detrimental. When we sleep, our body works to restore itself after a long day of neural activity. In fact, the brain can use up to 80% of its energy to sustain synaptic activity. The brain needs a way to conserve energy after a long day of wakefulness in physical an mental activity. Sleep also helps us in memory consolidation, and learning. And finally, sleep is really important for neural growth, as we've discussed before. So how do we know sleep is important? Well, based on experiments and case studies in which people are sleep deprived, sleep deprivation can cause serious consequences. Not only will you feel tired the next day, but your cognition can also be affected. Lack of sleep can also interfere with school, work driving ability, and social interactions. Sleep deficiency, an inadequate amount of sleep, is linked to physical problems such as heart disease, stroke, high blood pressure, diabetes. You know, this is really important, because the Center for Disease Control found that between 7 to 19% of US adults report not getting an adequate amount of sleep. The importance of sleep is often overlooked. A lot of us think that we can get by on minimal sleep. However, we know that there are serious negative effects to our mental and physical health, as well as our overall quality of life, and our safety. For example the National Center for Sleep Disorder Research noted that thousands of car accidents are caused by drowsy driving. They also note that losing one to two hours of sleep per night can result in depression. Now, these are important things that we need to consider the next time one of us wants to pull an all nighter, right? Consider this quote. Sufficient sleep is not a luxury, it's a necessity, and should be thought of as a vital sign to good health. However, some of the reasons why people might not get the recommended amount of sleep, which is around 7 to 9 hours, is because they might have a sleep disorder. Let's go ahead and talk about a few of those. But first, here's a simple test to see if you're sleep deprived. Do you use an alarm clock to wake up? Yes or no. The first sleep disorder we're going to talk about is Sleep Apnea. This is a condition that results in a person having pauses in breathing while they're sleeping, or shallow breathing. The pauses can last a few seconds or minutes. This can happen up to 30 times or more an hour. In most cases, a person starts breathing normally again, however this interruption in sleep causes the person to go from deep sleep to light sleep. So this in turn results in a poor quality of sleep. It makes the person tired the next day. This is one of the leading causes of excessive daytime sleepiness. Next we have Narcolepsy. This results from our brains inability to regulate our sleep and wake cycles. This results in an irresistible urge to sleep and occasions in which they fall asleep for several seconds to minutes throughout the day. For example, a person with Narcolepsy might be in the middle of a stimulating conversation and fall asleep on the spot. This disorder usually starts in childhood or adolescence. You can imagine how potentially dangerous Narcolepsy can be. Consider that a person with this disorder could be driving. Working with dangerous equipment, or flying an airplane, or even riding a bike and suddenly fall asleep. This can cause themselves or others serious bodily harm. Here, let's look at this interview with a friend of mine who has Narcolepsy. I'm here with a good friend of mine, Becky, who has narcolepsy and we're going to talk to her a little bit more about it. So when were you first diagnosed with narcolepsy? Probably it was the end of my freshman year of high school and I was, had good sleep habits. Like I had younger siblings so I still went to bed 9 o'clock at night, 10 o'clock at the latest. And I was still so tired, like, I would come home from school and I would take a nap right away. And I was playing soccer, so, sometimes I'd be at soccer practice and then take a nap, wake up and go to my next soccer practice. And, I was also falling asleep in a lot of my classes. We went and saw Finding Nemo and I fell asleep in it, and I wasn't tired, it was the last day of school, I was super excited to be summer break. And then I went and saw it a couple of weeks later and fell asleep almost the same time in the movie again. For only like 10 minutes and then I woke up, so that's when I realized, why am I so tired? And then I, my parents just kind of thought I was being a lazy teenager and then I started to show the signs of cataplexy, where you lose muscle control during strong emotions. So when I'd laugh, my mom started noticing my facial features, they kind of like droop, because you just can't control them, and my neck would, like, drop. And she started noticing that, so that's when we decided to go to a doctor. So we went to a general practitioner that we'd never used before, and we told him my symptoms, and he's like, have you done drugs? And I'm like, no, I've never done anything. I had never even drank alcohol at all yet. And he was like, so you've never done this, this, this, listed like ten drugs, and I'm like, no, no, no, no, and he's like, then I don't know what you have. So then we went to my pediatrician and we told him like, she's tired all the time and she loses muscle control and he was like, I think you have narcolepsy. And then I went to a pediatric neurologist. By the way, she's like, you can't drive anymore. And I was like, right when I got my permit, so I was really upset about that. And then I did the EEG and 24 hours sleep study at a center and lastly they did an MRI on my head and then I got diagnosed with narcolepsy. What is it like to live with narcolepsy? It's kind of just something that's always in the back of my head, like and my parents, and my fiance, like whenever I'm going to drive anywhere they're like make sure you're not too tired. Every day is different, like sometimes I'll have to take a nap at 2 o'clock or sometimes I'll want to take a nap at work like at 10:30 in the morning. And usually when I do take a nap I really only need to sleep for like ten minutes and I'll feel refreshed. So I'll just literally lay my head down on my desk and I'll fall asleep in like 20 seconds and I'll set a timer, and then I'll wake back up. Luckily, at my job I have right now, I have my own office so I'll just like close the door to my office and just lay down on my desk. But it's something I always think about. Like, the other day I wanted to like rush and go to the gym and then rush and meet my mom somewhere, and it was kind of across town and I was like, can I drive? Like, should I lay down for 15 minutes and take a nap? So I always have to think about that. When I was working at my job before this I was like clocked out on a break and I went into like a back room and I set my timer and I fell asleep in like a chair, like this. And my boss came in and she suspended me for taking a nap at work. And I was like, so upset. I was like, here's my timer, it was going to go off in like one minute. And I was like I have narcolepsy which I wrote on the application and then the next day I brought my note from my neurologist that said I have narcolepsy and they like paid me for the hours that I missed and everything but I was very upset when I got in trouble for taking a nap. Is there anything you want to tell people about the disorder. I kind of want people to know that there are a lot of different levels and like extemetires of narcolepsy. Like a lot of people when I tell them I have narcolepsy they're really surprised and then they bring up that one Deuce Bigalow movie where the girl's like trying to bowl. And I guess some people can fall asleep like mid-sentence but I can't, so it sometimes, it kind of annoys me that people are like, oh, can you fall asleep right now? I'm like, no, I can't. If I try to fall at any time I will but not while I'm doing something. It really bothers me when people that, I guess don't know I have narcolepsy or forget I do Think it's funny when I do fall asleep somewhere. And I guess another thing I want people to know is a really odd symptom of narcolepsy is that it's really hard to sleep at night. because I guess since you go into REM sleep so fast that I never sleep for more than like three hours straight. I always will wake up So I'd like get a good nights sleep but I would wake up at least like ten times a night, and just be awake for like a minute and then I'll fall back asleep. So now, we're going to move on to night terrors. This occurs most often in childhood and results in waking from sleep in a terrified state. Most of these occur in the first third of the night. Now, if this happens, the person might be difficult to comfort because they're going to be thrashing around violently. This could last 10 to 20 minutes and then, they'll fall back asleep. Oftentimes, the person will have no memory of the event and can't explain what happened the following morning. Now, some people with night terrors, also sleep walk in which they engage in behaviors they would do while they're awake. Even though they're asleep. For example, this could include eating, getting dressed, moving furniture, or even driving a car while asleep. Now, sleepwalking can occur in children and adults. About 4 to 15% of children sleepwalk, and about 1.5 to 2.5% of adults sleepwalk. Now let's go to my friend who has night terrors, and let's see what he has to say about it. I'm here with My Friend Michael who has night terrors. So Michael, when did you figure out you had night terrors? &gt;&gt; When I was about 13 in my teen years and found out I was experiencing them a few times a week, even sometimes, like three times in a night, and my parents just took me to the pediatrician. &gt;&gt; So what's it like to to live with night terrors? &gt;&gt; It's exhausting. It's exhausting for me, it's exhausting for my wife. And like when I was living with my parents, like family members just because they're really intense. And at one point, I was having them every night, like sometimes three times a night, but pretty much on a regular basis and that's, you know, waking everybody up having to deal with the situation. And then, for myself, feeling like I was asleep the whole time, but really, I'm up sprinting around screaming my lungs off at whatever was going on and, and not, not knowing the next morning like why I was exhausted. &gt;&gt; And what's it like to have a night terror episode? &gt;&gt; Sometimes, they are totally fuzzy. I don't know what I did at all, until somebody wakes me up and tells me. Other times, you would remember everything and, and the one that was the most terrifying for me, because, I was the only one that would wake myself up from them was when somebody was coming after me, whether it was maybe it was like a giant spider. It was like a person like lurking in the room and you just be totally still, eyes wide open really sweating. And, I was afraid for my life that if I budged or moved at all that this, this spider or this person or whatever it was would come after me and, and kill me or whatever. And, those were terrifying because you're just, you're frozen and you're seeing everything. Nobody's waking me up, nothing. I'm just still. All by myself and having to wake up from that on my own. The consistent thing no matter if somebody wakes me up or if waking up myself from those ones that are still, you're just always the next day, bags under the eyes. You're just tired all the time, because you're, you're, you're running around in your sleep, like you're, you're, you're exerting energy in a time when you should be relaxed and your body should be refreshing itself, like you should be getting energy back. Another thing that I, I've discovered is I get, I get really mad. I'm like very aggressive when, I'm like, coming back out of that, that dream or whatever's going on. That I'm very I'm just very pissed off. I'm yelling at my wife, like, stop it, no, I'm not, just leave me alone. And then the next thing that comes into that phase is just total shame. I'm just very embarrassed, kind of curl up, just I, I don't, I, because I, whatever you see, I swear it's there, I know it's there. It's just like looking at you right now, I swear that you're there, but then, somebody wakes me up and goes, no you're, you're just having a night terror, like and, and I don't know if that's where it kicks in that you get mad and, and that I'm aggressive in that way. I, I don't know why, why that feeling comes over me. But it definitely scares me to the fact that I, I don't want to hurt anybody. Definitely don't want to hurt my wife and I hope it never comes to that. I mean, I even have a little one now, and that's definitely one thing that terrifies me. If I was to go running out of the room or something, and God forbid, I, I had something happen to her. And that's one thing that's always in the back of my mind is you know, I'm kind of, I'm, I'm bigger guy and what would happen if that happened. &gt;&gt; Now, is there anything that you want people to know about night terrors? &gt;&gt; The worst thing you can do and, and people that have been around me and experienced it, the worst thing you can do is to go along with the person, talking to them, and trying to figure out what's going on. the person will seem coherent, like their eyes will be open, I'll have a full-blown conversation with somebody, but I'm, I'm sleeping and I don't know what I'm going to do next, I have no idea. I have no control of this situation. That, what has control over me is whatever I'm picturing, whether it's spiders, snakes, whatever that, that's what has control. Not me, the, the situation. If you know somebody that has it, if it's a family member, somebody that's going to be around all the time, try to keep the door open, maybe have like a little night light out in the hallway or something. I know it sounds kind of silly if you have like like for me, I was a teenager, you know, put a night light, what are you talking about? But looking back on it, it would have probably been the best thing for my, my dad and, and people trying to help me out because they could see me, it was so dark all the time, I'd go sprinting out of the room and they don't know where I'm at, like you can't see anything. So it's little things like that, that could help me out. And I don't know, as far as releasing my stress somehow, kind of kept to myself. I don't know if I, I talked enough to people to learn how to cope with stress differently. And I think that's what ended happening is I got into the habit of not telling anybody anything. And that was my way of coping, was going to sleep and thinking about it. So I don't know if there's other avenues that way, I just haven't figured it out yet. Thanks, Michael. Now, let's move on to our final sleep disorder that we're going to cover, insomnia. This is probably the most commonly known sleep disorder. This can result in people having difficulty falling asleep, staying asleep, or both. Either one of these or both of them results in a poor quality of sleep. And the individual will wake up tired and not well rested. We've already learned about the physical and mental effects of sleep deprivation, so chronic insomnia may result in detrimental healthy consequences. Acute insomnia can result from stressful events we experience, traumas or work and family pressures. It can last from days to weeks. In addition to feeling less energetic, insomnia may cause one to feel irritable, anxious, even depressed. This again makes a clear point that adequate sleep and quality of sleep is essential for our physical and mental health. Xavier and his brother Benjamin always feel sleepy during the day. Xavier thinks he shouldn't feel so tire because he knows he sleeps during the night, unlike his brother Benjamin who never falls asleep or stays asleep. Xavier doesn't have trouble falling asleep but does, on occasion, feel that he comes in and out of sleep throughout the night. Benjamin told Xavier that his breathing sounded weird and inconsistent while he sleeps. What sleep disorders do you think the brothers have? Xavier probably has what? And Benjamin probably has what? Here are some options. Narcolepsy, sleep apnea, night terrors, and insomnia. Xavier probably has sleep apnea. On the other hand, Benjamin probably have insomnia. There's some things that can promote regular sleep habits. But before I get into them, I want you to look at the lists I'm about to show you. And tell me what you think is good for sleep and what you think is bad for sleep. If you go to bed at the same time each night, is that good for sleep or bad for sleep? If you excercise right before bed, is that good for sleep or bad for sleep? If you eat a big meal right before bed. Is that good for sleep or bad for sleep? If you turn off your TV, computer, cell phone or any gadget before bed, is that good for sleep or bad for sleep? Fill in the blank with either the word good or bad. Going to bed at the same time each night is good for sleep. Exercising right before bed is bad for sleep. Eating a big meal right before bed is also bad for sleep. And turning off your computer, TV, cell phone, or any other gadget before bed, is good for sleep. To promote regular sleep, there's a variety of techniques to aid better sleep patterns. You should go to bed at the same time each night, and rise at the same time each morning. You should sleep in a quiet and dark room that's not too hot or too cold. You should make your bed comfortable, and use it only for sleeping. Not other activities, such as reading, watching TV, or listening to music, or even studying. You should remove all TVs. Computers and other gadgets from the bedroom. At the very least, turn them off. Avoid large meals before bedtime. Avoid caffeine, nicotine and alcohol four to six hours before bed. Don't exercise within two hours before bedtime. Don't nap late in the afternoon. If you can't fall asleep, get up and do something else. And make it's relaxing. Oh, and about 30 minutes before bed, you should try to start winding down, get into a routine. So far, we've discussed the importance of sleep and the purpose of sleep. But we still need to address a few of the questions we asked earlier in the lesson. Namely, is the brain active during sleep and can we become consciously aware of the fact that we are dreaming. There was a time when people thought that the brain wasn't active or had very little activity while we sleep. However, we now know that the brain is actually quite active. In fact, given the advancement in technology, namely through EEG machines, we know that the brain goes through what we call sleep stages. So sleep is actually a really organized process. Throughout the night, our brain cycles between what we call rapid eye movement sleep or REM sleep and non-REM sleep so not rapid eye movement sleep. Non-REM sleep Has four stages. When we fall a sleep we go down to stage I, then to, three and four. Again, this is our deepest sleep. But then when we cycle back up we go from four to three to two and once we get back to one we go into rapid eye movement sleep,and this is where dreams occur. Now, rapid eye movement sleep is exactly what it sounds like, your eyes move back and forth really, really rapidly underneath your eyelids. It's interesting to note that our electricity activity during REM sleep looks pretty similar to when we're awake. Now, this whole cycle lasts about 90 minutes. This means that about 25 percent of our sleep we spend in rapid eye movement sleep. And 75 percent we spend outside of rapid eye movement sleep. Scientists have used EEG machines to record our brain waves while we sleep, and while we're awake. When we're awake, our electrical brain activity is called beta waves. However, when we're relaxed, our brain activity slows to alpha waves. As you can see here, this is when we become drowsy, and when we first fall asleep we don't go into rapid eye movement sleep but we go down to stage one. And during stage one our brain waves are theta waves. So if you were looking at a brainwave activity, you would know that somebody fell asleep because they moved from alpha waves to theta waves. In stage one we can be easily aroused by outside stimuli such as a phone ringing or someone walking around or so on. After about seven minutes or so. We're going to move from stage one to stage two. Now during stage two, which is also a type of theta wave, we're going to see two interesting things in our electrical brain activity. First, as you see here this is a sleep spindle. It's a sudden burst of electrical activity in the brain waves. And here, we see a K complex which is a single but large, high voltage spike in brain activity. Both of these things last about a second or two. It has been proposed by some researchers that these help us to disconnect from the outside world. After about 15 minutes in stage two, we move on to stage three sleep. Which consists of theta waves again, but also delta waves which are the slowest and strongest waves in our sleep cycle. So stage three consists of some theta waves and some delta waves. And in stage four we experience all delta waves, and this again is our deepest stage of sleep. Now, remember, once we hit stage four, we go back up in reverse order. So we go from stage four to three to two to one and then REM sleep. Now, it's interesting to note that during REM sleep, we actually lose muscle tone. This may actually help to prevent us from acting out some of our dreams. Now, perhaps you've had a dream where you were running from someone. It would be hazardous if our brain actually allowed us to engage in these activities. Which example of brain wave activity would you expect to see from a person who is awake and yet drowsy? Is it these delta waves? Is it these theta waves, or these theta waves? Is it these alpha waves? Or these REM waves? Correct answer is alpha waves. We see alpha waves when a person is awake, yet relaxed or drowsy. These are slower yet higher energy than beta waves. We see beta waves also when we're awake, but when we're alert, not relaxed or drowsy. And these are more rapid yet low-energy waves. The brain waves during REM sleep look most like what? Your brain waves while you're awake. Your brain waves while you're in the first stage of sleep. Brain waves while you're in the third stage of sleep. Or brain waves while you're in the fourth stage of sleep. Your brain waves during REM sleep look most like your brain waves while you're awake. On these two examples of stage two and stage three brain waves where are the sleep spindles and k-complexes. Choose the highlighted area that you think is a sleep spindle or a k-complex and write the approrpiate name in the box. Now if any of the boxes you think don't represent either a sleep spindle or a k-complex. Just write the word, no, in the box. Now, did you pick up on how I kind of tricked you on that one? There aren't sleep spindles or k-complexes in stage three sleep. So both of these are no. Sleep spindles and k-complexes are only seen in stage two sleep. Here is a sleep spindle because it's a short burst of brain activity. And here we see a k-complex because it's a single high voltage burst of energy. And this isn't a sleep spindle or a k-complex. So, why is REM sleep important? Well first, we can look for answers in sleep patterns that occur across the lifetime. We see that REM sleep steadily decreases from infancy to adulthood. For example, REM goes from about 50% of total sleep time in infancy, to around 20% of total sleep time in childhood and adulthood. However, then it increases slightly to around 23% of total sleep time in old age. So for most of our life, we spend about 20 to 25% of sleep in REM sleep. Now, if you remember from our previous lessons when we talked about REM sleep, REM sleep is associated with neural growth. Researchers now believe the purpose of REM sleep is to assist the brain in growth and development. Do you remember when we previously talked about neuroplasticity in other lessons? Well, in infancy, our brains are very plastic and less plastic in old age. We see this correspond with the amount of REM sleep we get at these different ages. A fascinating component of REM sleep is that this is when we dream. And while we're dreaming, the areas of our brain that are responsible for receiving sensory stimulation and responsible for controlling and planning our body movements are actually activated. This is why we feel like we're running or swimming or even falling while we're dreaming. In essence, we feel the dream like it's really happening. Sleep is an adaptive response and imperative for healthy functioning, both mentally and physically. If we don't get enough REM sleep one night, we're going to get more REM sleep the next night. This is called the rebound effect. This shows us, there's both a biological need for sleeping and REM sleep. Now, let's finish up this material on sleeping and dreaming with Susan and talk about an area that I find really fascinating. That's the ability for someone to become consciously aware while they're dreaming, lucid dreaming. Lucid dreaming is being conscientiously aware that you're dreaming. So, how can we lucid dream? Well, Steven L'Burg, an expert in the field, says that lucid dreamers actually develop a mindset that allows them to recognize that they're dreaming. And once they recognize that they're dreaming they can actually change the content of their dream. &gt;&gt; That's right and proponents of lucid dreaming tell a variety of benefits. For example, in one pilot study, they looked at an individual who had nightmares. And the idea was, if you could teach the person to lucid dream and become aware when they're having a nightmare, they could actually change the outcome of that dream. In this example, the person did actually experience fewer nightmares, although the mechanism of action, or how it happened still remains unclear. There are lots of great tips and tricks on how to engage lucid dreaming, and I really suggest that you try. I myself have been able to lucid dream on a few occasions. It usually happens when I have this dream that I'm chewing glass. For some reason, I'm able to realize that I wouldn't chew glass in real life. And it's at this point that I usually wake up, however some people have been able to lucid dream such that they're able to change the content and even fly away. &gt;&gt; That's really cool Susan. I'm really glad you don't eat glass when you're awake. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH] &gt;&gt; That's good but now that I have you here why don't we move on to the drugs and consciousness part of this lesson since that is area of expertise? &gt;&gt; That sounds great Lauren, but first we have to say, or define what is a drug. As Susan said, it's important for us to start with, what is a drug? Here, I'm going to show you a list of different things and I want you to check which of them you think is considered a drug. If heroin or black tea, coffee, antidepressants, some types of mushrooms, like those considered to be magic mushrooms. Or pain killers, MDMA, nicotine, alcohol, LSD, aspirin, mescaline, which is a hallucinogen, or marijuana, cocaine? Check as many or as few as you would like. The correct answer is all of these can be considered a drug. Yep, even black tea and coffee. A drug is any chemical that influences biological processes when introduced into the body. Now, it's really important to know that drugs don't introduce any novel physiological responses in the body, or in the brain. Rather, drugs can disrupt our homeostasis. Within our body, we maintain our internal environment within certain limits. For example, our body maintains things like our temperature, our water content, our sodium content, even our heart rate. Our resting heart rate is between 40 and 100 beats per minute. But, methamphetamine can push our heart rate way out of this range in unsafe levels of over 200 beats per minute. So, we see here that methamphetamine doesn't cause any new responses in our body. We already have a heart rate, doesn't create that. But it affects the homeostasis, so it increases our heart rate. In this section, we're going to cover drug research and that includes drugs as medicine and drugs of abuse. We're going to look at both basic and applied research. Meaning, the basic side is experiments conducted to gather basic information on what drugs do to the body and the brain. And on the applied side, we're going to look at ways that drugs can be used to help the human condition. There's a lot of things we're going to consider in this lesson. We're going to look at why do people take drugs. We're going to look at how drugs work to produce their effects. We're going to look at physical and psychological dependence as well as tolerance and withdrawal. We're also going to look at how the root of administration plays an important role in the reinforcing effects of drugs. We're going to look at how set and setting can influence drug effects. We'll look at how genetics play a role in drug use and abuse. We'll also look at how drugs are studied with animals and humans to discover effective treatments for a variety of conditions. We'll also look at specific classes of drugs and their physical, behavioral and psychological effects. Also, how drugs are used to expand consciousness and very importantly, treatments for drug abuse. Let's start with why people took drugs in the first place. History has shown that humans have consumed drugs that alter consciousness for thousands of years. In fact, did you know that there are over 4,000 plants that yield psychoactive chemicals and humans have consumed such substances for over 50,000 years. Some have suggested that the desire to alter consciousness is a drive. We know that humans have used drugs for a long time. Do you think humans are the only living things that seek drugs to alter consciousness? Yes or no? Interestingly, we see that non-human animals will self-administer some drugs to experience their psychoactive effects. Check out the YouTube video in the instructor's notes box about the alcoholic monkey. So use the term psychoactive. You might wonder what is psychoactive? Well, psychoactive drugs are any drug that affect or change mood, cognition or behavior. So, for example, cocaine is a psychoactive drug. It changes mood, it improves cognition, it makes one think and feel powerful, like a competent person and behavior. It increases motor activity. However, cocaine is not prescribed for any of these things. Now, that leads us to psychotropic drugs. These are drugs that are prescribed, this is the key, to affect or change mood, cognition, or behavior. So, an antidepressant, such as an SSRI, as we learned about in Lesson 3, are prescribed to affect and change mood, cognition, and or behavior. That makes anti depressants psychotropic drugs. Let's look at this example. Johnny took his friend Scott's BetterDay pills to improve his mood. Because after Scott was prescribed them by his doctor, Johnny noticed Scott was much happier. Now Johnny did not have a prescription for the pills, but Scott did. So that means BetterDay is a what, a psychoactive drug or psychotropic drug. Fill in the blank here. BetterDay is a psychotropic drug because even though Johnny didn't have a prescription for it, Scott did. And the BetterDay pills are prescribed to affect mood making it a psychotropic drug. Now psychotropic drugs are also psychoactive drugs. But psychoactive drugs that are prescribed make them psychotropic drugs. Humans consume many drugs for the psychoactive effects that they have on us. Here we're going to discuss drugs that are potentially abused, as opposed to drugs that are used as medicines, such as something for high blood pressure. Some have argued that humans have a basic need to cope with their daily lives, and that some people do so by using drugs. There are four main reasons why people use drugs. The first is for recreational purposes. Here an individual may use a drug to experiment or to have fun. Another reason is for social purposes. Here an individual may take a drug because it makes them feel like they can interact better and socialize, or they may take it for peer pressure purposes. Before I go on to the next two reasons, can you think of two reasons why people may take drugs? So in addition to recreational and social reasons people also take drugs for spiritual purposes. Here they may take it to enhance a spiritual or mystical experience. And finally people take drugs for medical or psychological reasons. For example, an individual maybe experiencing pain and take drugs to reduce that pain. Or they may take it to deal with life, such as decreasing anxiety or tension. Finally, if an individual is physically addicted, they may take drugs to prevent withdrawal. Before we talk about specific drugs and their physiological, behavioral and psychological effects. It's important to review some of the material that we learned in lesson three, the Biology of Behavior. First, remember that the central nervous system is comprised of the brain and the spinal cord. You should also review the autonomic nervous system as many drugs effect both of these nervous systems as well as their functioning. In addition, review the material on neurons, neurotransmission, neurotransmitters, and receptors. And then finally, be sure to look at the brain structures as well as the dopamine reward pathway. Now that you have a little refresher on the biology of behavior, let's discuss some basic principles of drugs and drug addiction. First, its important to know that there are many variables that can influence the risk of drug use and/or drug abuse. These variables include stressful environments, impoverished environments, co-existing mental health problems, hostile family environment. Lack of alternative rewarding activities, drug using peers and particular social environments such as parties or concerts. Sex, males are more likely to use drugs than females, homelessness and culture. As you can see, this is quite a list of potential variables that can pose a risk for drug use and abuse. But what happens when a person takes a drug? That is, why do some people take drugs again and again and sometimes to access? We do know that genetics can play a role in how reinforcing a drug's effect is for an individual. Now, a drug reinforcer Is any drug that produces effects that cause or result in the person taking the drug again. Drugs of abuse are termed positive reinforcers. We'll discuss reinforcers in more detail in our lesson on learning, which is the next lesson. One factor that plays a major role in the reinforcing effectiveness of a drugs action Is the root of administration that the drug is delivered. The faster the onset of a drug's action, the greater reinforcing effects. So injecting and inhaling routes are more reinforcing. In the oral route, because the drug enters the central nervous system faster during injecting and inhaling. Now, for the oral route, the drug has a path through the digestive system and compete for metabolism for whatever else is in the stomach. For example, pizza or cheeseburger. Thus the drug takes longer to reach the sites of action in the central nervous system when taken orally. Here, let's look at these a little closer. Injecting drugs is one of the fastest and most dangerous routes of administration for a variety of reasons. Including the increased risk of blood-borne diseases such as HIV and AIDS, hepatitis In collapsing of veins after long time injecting. Inhalation or smoking over an extended period of time can result in damage to the lungs and bronchi, and sometimes results in coughing fits and increased mucus production. Other roots of administration include snorting, or even transdermal patches. You're most likely aware of nicotine patches that are used as a method for quitting smoking. Patches allow for extended release of the drug. There are even patches for powerful pain reducing drugs that are used for the treatment of some cancers. But now, let's switch gears, and talk a little bit about the brain. All that we are, who we are, what we think and what we feel is due to our brain chemistry. We're like walking chemical factories producing the chemicals that we need to function daily. However, sometimes these chemicals can change and this change can affect our mood, our ability to learn and remember, and even our behavior. For example, our brains produce and use dopamine which is a neurotransmitter responsible for a reward behavior such as having sex or eating a good meal. Now, some drugs can increase the amount of a neurotransmitter that's available. For example, methamphetamines increase the amount of dopamine that's available. This can result in a person feeling really great when they're under the influence. The feeling of euphoria. However, there are negative effects associated with excessive dopamine levels. For example, stimuli-induced psychosis. In this part of the lesson, we're going to talk about three main classes of drugs. Stimulants, depressants and hallucinogens. I'm going to send you over to Susan to get started on our discussion of stimulants. Minor stimulants are things such as caffeine and energy drinks, whereas major stimulants are drugs such as cocaine and methamphetamine. In general, stimulants do what they word says. They stimulate. And they do so by activating the sympathetic nervous system. You remember, our fight-or-flight nervous system. Now in general, all stimulants produce similar effects, but they do so to a different degree. For example, caffeine will increase energy, but nowhere near the same level as cocaine or methamphetamine. The stimulants produce an increase in energy, talkativeness, and motor behavior. In addition, they also elevate mood and can produce feelings of power or confidence. In fact, it's these powerful effects on feeling and mood that make the major stimulants such as cocaine and methamphetamine drugs of abuse. These stimulants produce their reinforcing effectiveness by activating the nucleus accumbens and the dopamine reward pathway. Now it's important to remember that tolerance can develop to some of the drug's effects, and I'm going to send it back to Lauren to talk more about tolerance. Thanks, Susan. So, tolerance means that more of a drug is needed to produce the original effects. So, for example, a person might take meth, and on subsequent occasions have to take a higher dose to produce the same feelings they did the first time they used it. This is also true for alcohol. One glass of wine after repeated use will not produce the same effects, so a person has to drink more. Tolerance is the body's way of trying to adjust to the constant presence of the drug. Tolerance is an important concept that leads to two additional terms that are key to understanding drug use and abuse. And those are physical and psychological dependence. So, physical dependence is a different phenomenon than tolerance, but they are often associated temporally. A person who is physically dependent needs the drug in order to avoid withdrawal symptoms. Moreover, these withdrawal symptoms can be both physically and psychologically painful and challenging. Withdrawal from one particular drug can actually result in death. Do you know which? The answer is alcohol. A person who is physically dependent on alcohol and stops drinking can die. Therefore, for treatment, they may be switched to a barbiturate or benzodiazepine and slowly tapered off. Let's move on and talk a little more specifically about what withdrawal symptoms are. So withdrawal effects are in the opposite direction of the effects that the drug produces. Let's look at an example of heroin. So here, we will list the effects that heroin produces. And we will see that when a person experiences withdrawal, those effects are opposite. Let's start first with analgesia. So heroin produces a variety of effects, we'll just look at four. One is analgesia, this means it's a pain reliever. It will also produce pupil constriction, meaning, people will have tiny pinpoint-like pupils. Also, it produces euphoria. In fact, this is why people abuse heroin. And finally, another effect is constipation. Now, a person who is physically dependent on heroin and doesn't get the drug will now start to experience withdrawal symptoms. And these are in the opposite direction, let's take a look. So the withdrawal effects would be hyperalgesia, which is an increased sensitivity to pain, pupil dilation, dysphoria,as well as diarrhea. In addition, people undergoing withdrawal from heroin experience what they call a terrible flu-like feeling. And these withdrawal symptoms can last for weeks. Therefore it is not surprising when people go out to look for the drug to try to diminish those withdrawal symptoms. So in addition to physical dependence, we can also have psychological dependence. And this refers to the need a user may psychologically feel for continued use for a drug to experience the psychoactive effects. They may feel they need it in order to function properly in life. Physiologically, stimulants can increase your heart rate, your blood pressure, and your respiration. They can also decrease your appetite. Now, it's important to know that this increase in heart rate is really dangerous. Some people have actually died the very first time they've ever used a major stimulant such as cocaine or methamphetamine. Long-term consequence of using the major stimulants such as cocaine and methamphetamine also result in formication. And this is the feeling of little bugs crawling under the person's skin. As a result, people often pick and scratch at their skin, which results in open wounds and increased likelihood for infection. Another consequence is called meth mouth. And I recommend that you Google that and you can see some unfortunate descriptions of what that is. Finally, long term use of these major stimulants in some people, can result in what is called stimuli-induced psychosis. And here, the individual thinks and behaves somewhat similarly to somebody with schizophrenia. Some of the other long term consequences of major stimulant use are hypervigilance, sleep deprivation, anxiety and paranoia. Long-term methamphetamine use can also dramatically age you. If you Google faces and meth, you can see just how dramatically meth can affect your appearance. When people abuse the major stimulants, they often go on what is called a run. Meaning, they'll continuously take the drug and stay awake for maybe two to three days at a time. Now, we know that our bodies simply can't stay awake that long and eventually the person will crash. Due to the crash, they're going to experience depression, extreme fatigue, and sometimes even suicidal thoughts. In addition, because the person starts to undergo withdrawal, they usually begin drug-seeking behavior again. Now, let's go back and take a review of the major stimulants. Now, it's important to note, however, that amphetamine, not methamphetamine, is used for treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, or ADHD for short. This may seem as counter-intuitive. Why would you want to give a stimulant to a person who has a hyperactivity disorder? Well, amphetamine actually helps a person concentrate. So, those with ADHD have a hard time paying attention. For example, in a classroom, and the stimulant, amphetamine, allows them to concentrate more effectively. Again, it's amphetamine, not methamphetamine, that's used for treatment of ADHD. So far, we've concentrated on the major stimulants, but there is one minor stimulant that is so addictive that it needs mention, and this is nicotine, which is the active ingredient in tobacco. Nicotine is a colorless, highly volatile alkaloid liquid. Nicotine activates central nervous system activity and it stimulates the release of dopamine. Tobacco is the leading preventable cause of death and disease in the United States and worldwide tobacco use causes more than 5 million deaths per year. And finally, smokers die on average about ten years earlier than do nonsmokers. Now, this is something very important to consider if you are a smoker. So we know tobacco use leads to both disease and disability, but let's look at some of those a little more closely. So tobacco youth leads to cancer, heart disease and stroke. In addition, it leads to several lung diseases, including emphysema, bronchitis and chronic airway obstruction. In addition, for every one death caused by tobacco, 20 more people suffer with at least one serious illness from smoking. So let's recap stimulants. We have Minor Stimulants, such as Caffeine or Nicotine and we have major stimulants, such as Cocaine, Amphetamine, and Methamphetamine. Stimulants stimulate our sympathetic and central nervous systems, and this causes an increased heart rate and blood pressure. And remember that long-term use of major stimulants have serious negative physiological, psychological, and behavioral consequences. Before I move onto depressants, let's look at this. So, you know that the stimulants excite your sympathetic nervous system and central nervous system. And depressants effect your central nervous system. What do you think depressants do to the central nervous system? Fill in your answer here. Take a second to think about it. Well, if you said the depressants, depress your central nervous system, you're right. Now, let's go back to Susan for more of an explanation of depressants. Lauren's right. Now, we're going to move on and talk about the Central Nervous System Depressants or CNS Depressants. These include the Barbiturates, the Benzodiazepines, and alcohol. The CNS Depressants slow activity in the Central Nervous System, and the Benzodiazepines and Barbiturates are used medically to treat anxiety, as well as insomnia. In general, the benzodiazepines and barbituates produces effects that are similar to alcohol. In fact, these three drug types are behavioral, motor, and cognitive inhibitors. A person may respond to a low dose with feelings of relaxation or decreased anxiety. However, in some people that same dose can produce aggressive and even violent behavior. In general, the CNS to presence can cause motor impairment, cognitive impairment, slurred speech, disorientation, mental confusion and even amnesia. We're going to send it back to Lauren to talk about these three drug types. As Susan said, these drugs depress the central nervous system, which is the opposite of what stimulants do. That's why benzodiazepines are often used to treat anxiety. Barbiturates are not used as often today to treat anxiety because they are not as safe as benzodiazepines. People are more likely to overdose on barbiturates than benzodiazepines. Also, if barbiturates are consumed with alcohol, it can cause death. Barbiturates, are however, used to treat some medical conditions, such as epilepsy, because they often help to suppress seizure activity. Alcohol is not used today in an official medical sense. However, it's a widely abused drug that people use to self-medicate. That is, they may use it to help them cope with problems in their life. However, it is important to know that alcohol is a drug. You may hear people say alcohol and drugs, when in fact it should be alcohol and other drugs. You'll now be able to point that out to be people when you hear such a mistake, because you know that alcohol is a drug. Alcohol has what's known as a disinhibitory effect. This disinhibition means that people are going to do things when they're drinking that they wouldn't normally do. That's what we mean by risky behaviors when people are intoxicated they'll do things they wouldn't do when they're sober. This could be why people get into so much trouble when they've been drinking. People can't think clearly, and they act inappropriately to their impulses. They also think in the here-and-now, they don't necessarily think about the future or consequences that can lead to a lot of trouble. But for now, let's switch gears and let's go talk to Susan about the effect alcohol has on the body. Alcohol is a teratogen, and you should remember that term from our lesson on development. This means that if alcohol is in the system while the woman is pregnant it can have serious consequences on the fetus. And one of those consequences is called fetal alcohol syndrome. Now, fetal alcohol syndrome is a collection of physical and behavioral abnormality. Some of the diagnostic criteria for FAS include growth retardation both before and after birth as well as abnormalities in the face and head. Now, its important to know that there is no known safe level of alcohol consumption while pregnant. Alcohol is the second leading cause of premature death in the United States. Excessive alcohol use is associated with brain tissue loss and intellectual impairments. &gt;&gt; Long term alcohol use also results in problems with the liver including fatty liver and cirrhosis of the liver. &gt;&gt; In addition to heart attack, heart disease, hypertension, stroke, cancer and impaired immunities which are all associated with excessive long term alcohol use. &gt;&gt; That's a lot of negative effects so keep that in mind. Now, let's recap the benzodiazapines and the barbituates. Both of those are used as medicines, but they're also both abused. The barbiturates are used as medicine to treat epilepsy, because they reduce seizure activity. And the benzodiazepines are used to treat anxiety, and sometimes they're prescribed for individuals as a sleep aide for those with insomnia. So, let's try to figure this out. Benzodiazepine would be considered what type of drug, and alcohol would be considered what type of drug? Remember, these are prescribed, and these aren't. Now, even though they both can be considered psychoactive drugs, because they both affect mood, behavior and cognition. Benzodiazepines are psychotropic drugs because they're prescribed by a doctor. Alcohol is psychoactive because it is not prescribed by a doctor. Let's move on to another type of depressant. That's opioids. Opioids are medically very useful, because, they're effective pain relievers. Opiates include morphine, heroin, as well as oxycodone, among other drugs. The main ingredient of these painkillers comes from the opium poppy. Although, some of the drugs use a synthetic version. Acute effects of opiates are pain relief, confusion, lower blood pressure, decreased respiration, euphoria or a dreamlike state as well as decreased coordination. In addition, they can produce nausea and vomiting as well as. Constipation just as have seen with other drugs. Opioids can be very helpful when properly used as medical treatment, for example, receiving morphine after having a surgery. However, these are often abused. As with other central nervous system depressant, we see people display tolerance to the effects of these drugs. Meaning, the person will have to take more of the drug to produce the original effect. Now let's go back to Susan to talk a little bit about heroin, a commonly abused opioid. Heroin is a drug that is often abused for its powerful pain relieving effects, both physical and psychological, as well as the euphoria. However, tolerance develops to the effects of heroin, and that requires the user to take more of the drug to produce those similar effects. In addition, once the heroin addict is physically dependent When the drug starts to leave their system, they'll experience withdrawal symptoms. Thus, the life of a heroin addict is a vicious cycle, spent injecting the drug. Experiencing effects. And when that starts to wear off, they're going to seek to find the drug again. Often times, this resolves in criminal activity in an attempt to purchase the drug. Now, heroin is not used here medically in the United States, but other powerful opiates are. However, although some people do abuse the opioids, it's important to stress the value of these pain-relieving agents. From a medicinal point of view, these are essential for managing individuals who experience pain. Now, the opiates produce their effects by interacting with our mu, delta, and kappa receptors and they act similar to our endogenous endorphins and enkephalins. People often die from overdosing on these drugs by respiratory depression. Now, I'm going to send it back to Lauren and we're going to discuss the next drug, cannabis. As Susan said I want to talk about cannabis, or marijuana. Cannabis has been used for a very long time, and there's a lot of information on the internet that you have access to. If you're interested in looking up it's pretty awesome history. But for this class we're just going to focus on the reported effects and potential medical uses of cannabis. First thing to know is that cannabis is a plant, and when taken into the body, it produces a variety of physiological, psychological, and behavioral effects. Marijuana is classified separately from other drug classes because its effects are varied and complex. Cannabinoids are 66 chemicals unique to the cannabis plant, which is what marijuana comes from. Delta 9 tetrahydrocannabinol, or THC for short, is the most pharmacologically active cannabinoid similar to our endogenous opiate-like endorphins. We also have an endogenous substance that has marijuana like effects called anandamide. The cannabinoids and anandamide interact with our CB1e and CB2 receptors. Our CB1 receptors are found in huge numbers in the brain, but they're also widespread throughout the body. Our CB2 receptors are primarily found outside of the brain in immune cells. It's important to know where the receptors are found because it can help us determine why marijuana can produce the effects that account for medical use. Physiologically, marijuana increases heart rate, bronchodilation, reddening of the eyes, and dryness of the throat and mouth. In addition, there's some perceptual changes such as difficulty estimating time, sometimes referred to as time expansion, verbal behavior decreases. Whereas there's an increase in nonverbal behaviors or interactions. Sometimes people report feeling giddy, but sometimes people also experience anxiety and its these users who report feeling like will not return back to normal. Acute administration of marijuana can disrupt cognitive performance including slowed cognitive processing, impaired short term memory. Impaired inhibitory control. Loss of sustained concentration. And impaired visuospatial processing. Medically, marijuana has been shown to be beneficial for some chronic pain, nausea, and anxiety. However, medical acceptance of marijuana is still under debate. Now, let's go back to Susan for the last class of drugs we're going to be covering in this lesson. The last class of drugs we're going to discuss are the hallucinogens, or psychedelics. These drugs can erratically distort the way a person perceives. In addition, it can change the way they think, as well as the way they feel. Sometimes when people take these substances, they can experience great fear or anxiety. But in some cases, they say that it changes the way they view the world. In addition, we see that people can experience synesthesia, and this is a crossing over of the senses. For example, a person may hear colors or taste sounds. In addition, LSD can bring back long-lost memories and some people report a dying of the ego while taking this drug. Now, it's no doubt that some people have experienced troublesome or even a frightening experiences from taking hallucinogenic substances. And there's some research to support the idea that one of these agents can act as an epigenetic agent and turn on the gene that codes for mental illnesses, such as schizophrenia. Therefore, some major caution for some people using hallucinogenic substances. Now, LSD has its effect at the serotonin receptor and we see that psilocybin or magic mushrooms also affect the serotonin receptor system however, not to the same degree as LSD. Psilocybin can produce changes in perception and cognition as well. In fact, some people have said that LSD demands introspection whereas as psilocybin invites it. It's important to note that although some people experience negative consequences for using LSD or similar drug. Some researchers have found that these drugs actually are really beneficial medications for some conditions. In fact, this has led some of the top researchers in the field to examine the beneficial therapeutic effects of these drugs. &gt;&gt; That's right. For example, LSD has been used in the treatment of cluster headaches and there's new research looking at LSD for treating drug dependence. However, it's important to note that LSD is a schedule one drug, which means there are serious consequences for both use and possession. &gt;&gt; But who better to tell us about all this than two world-renowned experts in their field. First, we're going to talk to Doctor Griffiths about his research with psilocybin. Right, and then we'll come back and talk to Doctor Doblin, who is the founder of the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Science. He's going to discuss MDMA or Ecstasy with us. Psilocybin is a naturally occurring tryptamine alkaloid. It's the principal psychoactive component of so-called magic mushrooms, psilocybe genus of mushrooms. About 100 species of those mushrooms had been identified, and they've been used for, literally for thousands of years within some cultures, for structured manners and for divinatory and religious purposes. So, recently, research has been reinitiated with psilocybin as a classic hallucinogen and exploring some of its potential for therapeutic application. And this work points back to research done in the 1950s and 60s for two different kinds of indications. One was in cancer patients, primarily terminally ill and the other was in addictions area, primarily alcoholism. And we currently have studies in both those areas going on at Johns Hopkins. So, in the cancer patients, we're investigating the effects of a single psilocybin session on the existential anxiety or depressed mood that some patients experience as a consequence of their cancer diagnosis. So, as you may appreciate any terminal diagnosis can be very psychologically disruptive. And a fairly good percentage of people confronted with such a diagnosis, really end up, in despair and and reduced quality of life. We bring those individual in. They're very carefully screened prior to participation. And if they qualify for the, for the study, then we'd give them an opportunity to have a guided and supported psilocybin session in our laboratory. The context is that people lay down on a couch, they had headphones and eye shades. They're asked to turn their attention in on their inner experience. They're in the presence of two guides or monitors with whom they've already developed a secure and supportive relationship. And those people are there for the eight-hour session just to provide a context of safety and support. Under these conditions, with very high probability as we've seen in both cancer patients and other studies that we've run in healthy volunteers, the majority of people have what we call a transcendent or mystical type experience. These are experiences that have actually been well-characterized in the general research literature on religion, they occur naturally. And they're transformative and that they can alter very dramatically someone's entire sense of self and attitudes towards life and meaning. The characteristics of these experiences include a sense of unity or a sense of the interconnectedness of all people and things. A sense of sacredness, reverence noetic sense that there is something more true and more real about this experience than every day waking consciousness. A positive mood often accompanies these experiences, often experienced a deep gratitude or sometimes universal love. A transcendence of time and space occurs, the time collapses into the present moment. There's no past, there's no future, it's being this now. Finally, these experiences are said to be ineffable. People, the first thing they say about this kind of experience is, you know, I can't even put it into words. But with these kinds of experiences come, can come great psychological healing. There's been one recent published pilot study out of UCLA. We have this trial going at Johns Hopkins currently. NYU also has a cancer trial going, and we're really quite hopeful that very systematic application of psilocybin in this context could transform end of life care, not only for cancer patients but ultimately for us all. &gt;&gt; For the cancer patients, did they report it helping their relationship with their family or do their families report that the person was ready to pass on, or was there any family input on that? &gt;&gt; Yeah, so with the cancer patients, one of the really interesting outcomes is their relationship to family and their caregivers. People come through these kinds of experiences with a altered core sense of self and their beingness in the world. It gives them deep inner strength. And what's really remarkable and touching is when then that deep inner strength is communicated to their caretakers. So people can come through this kind of experience and, and be able to say, clear-eyed, and emotionally open, you know? I'm dying and, and it's sad and I, I am upset to be leaving and, and leaving you, but it's also okay, and there, and there's something beautiful about this and there's something absolutely okay, and I want you to know that. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; And [LAUGH] and when that's, it actually gets to me just describing it. But, but when someone can say that to their loved ones, it has remarkable healing direction both ways. &gt;&gt; I can imagine. In Dr Griffith's interview, what were some of the positive effects that patients described that they felt with Psilocybin? Was it mystical experiences, transcendence, a sense of unity, positive mood, psychological healing Universal love, transformative, or interconnectedness. Check all that apply. Patients in Dr. Griffith's Psilocybin and Cancer study reported all these experiences, including mystical experiences, feelings of transcendence, a sense of unity, they also experienced positive mood However, there could be some potential negative effects with people using psilocybin. Could you touch on perhaps some unusual experiences? &gt;&gt; Yeah, so it's very important to understand that there are risks, very real risks, associated with exposure to psilocybin. So in our studies at Johns Hopkins in, in a therapeutic context and when we are doing studies in healthy volunteers. We very carefully screen our volunteers. We develop rapport with them. The drug is given under very tightly-supervised and supportive context, and we do after-care with them. why do we this? So, the reason that we do this is because unfortunately psilocybin can produce some, some very difficult long lasting, and potentially harmful effects. So, number one is that, under the influence of psilocybin, people can have panic or fear reactions, and they can end up engaging in dangerous behavior, and it's uncommon. But it's not unheard of to read reports where people run out into traffic, jump out of windows, you know, flee in ways that get themselves or other people into trouble. Two is that there's, there really is concern, and this is more serious than just the panic, there really is concern that in some individual. Exposure to psilocybin and other compounds of this [INAUDIBLE] hallucinating class can precipitate in during psychiatric illness. the, the worst possible case would be precipitation of psychosis or schizophrenia of someone who was already vulnerable to that disorder. And that, it, that's a, a lifelong, irreversible disorder that is is disastrous for someone. Other than that there are some people who report persisting PTSD-like syndrome depression and anxiety disorders. So, we're very concerned about that and, and it's one of the reasons we screen people very carefully and support them through these kinds of experiences. We just recently have conducted, and are continuing to collect data on an online survey asking people about the most difficult experiences they've had with psilocybin. And what we're finding is that most people are reporting experiences when it's isolated to their most difficult experience, they're reporting experiences that are among the most difficult that they've ever had in their lives. And very often, the single most challenging experience, so there's nothing easy about these experiences. But the the more sobering statistics out of this survey is that anywhere from about 3% to 10% of people are reporting persisting effects that look like some kind of persisting psychological harmful consequence. So some of these people never had been in therapy before and have sought out psychological counseling for fearful reaction, or anxiety disorders, or paranoid after the session with Silly Simon. And they attribute their seeking that out to the Silly Simon session. about 6% of people report a decreased sense of well-being and, and so while these compounds may have great therapeutic potentials, there are also significant risks. &gt;&gt; Right, right. Dr Griffis describes some of the negative effects associated with psilocybin. Which is why they have to have such careful screening methods. Do you remember what the negative effects of psilocybin were? Were some of those negative effects difficult, long lasting, potential harmful effects? Panic or fear reactions. Persisting post traumatic stress disorder like symptoms. Precipitation of enduring psychological problems. Engaging in dangerous behaviors. Or depression and anxiety. Choose all that you think apply. Actually Doctor Griffiths discussed all of these as potential negative effects. Therefore, that's why he stressed the importance of screening people before giving them psilocybin, because of these difficulties. One interesting therapeutic potential that you are conducting, one of your studies, is the use of psilocybin in the treatment of nicotine dependence which seems kind of counterintuitive. Could you talk a little bit about that study? &gt;&gt; Yes, yes. So back in the 1950s and 60s there, were several studies done primarily with LSD and treatment of alcoholism. And those studies were done in a way that is very difficult to interpret the validity of their results, according to our own. &gt;&gt; Their methodology? &gt;&gt; Partly methodology, partly how they handle the data. So, given the experience we had with patients at Johns Hopkins we thought we would put together an intervention to look at addictions. We picked cigarette smoking, because we though it was a interesting form of addiction. In some ways, it's a pure addition. It's, it's unencumbered by the kind of social and physiological consequences you have with severe alcoholism, for instance. Or, or heroine addiction or cocaine addiction. Yet it's, it's the most pernicious form of addiction that we have worldwide. And people who are dependent on tobacco, you can ask them. It's, it's not an easy drug to, to quit. So we've, we've mounted a, a pilot study. We've enrolled about 15 people to date, and the results look very promising. We don't have a control group, but the results we're seeing to date is that the great majority of our people are entirely abstinence from cigarette smoking. So, how does this work? What? How does it, one single session or, in this case, two or three sessions with psilocybin get people to quit smoking? Well, it's embedded, this psilocybin session is embedded in the context of a cognitive behavioral therapy for cigarette smoking cessation. So prior to the psilocybin session, people learn about cognitive behavioral approaches for smoking, they end up charting the number of cigarettes they take, they rate their urges, their cravings, they note the situation under which they smoke, they look at the reflexive and kind of habitual pattern in which they reach for a cigarette. So we're introducing a level of mindfulness into their cigarette smoking that then when combined with this psilocybin session. And for reasons we don't fully understand, it really result in people being able to walk away from their addiction. What people will very often report is a transformed relationship to smoking. Before the psilocybin session smoking it held a saliency for them that was much larger than their ability to cope with. They were addicted, they knew they were addicted, they couldn't stop their cravings, they were hooked. And with the expansive form of consciousness that can come about with psilocybin, and when the intentionality is brought into the session to really deeply look and heal people walk away from that session with this renewed sense of self efficacy. Realizing that their, their autonomous beings that they can watch moods and cravings and habitual patterns come up into their field of consciousness but they can choose not to act on it. So, it's not a magic bullet. It doesn't take away the cravings. It doesn't take away the habitual tendency to maybe want a cigarette. But they can reframe it in a way that, for many of them, seems really quite magical. It's, like, oh, you know? It's, it's like Dorothy and the, and her shoes in the Wizard of Oz. She didn't know she had been wearing them the whole time. &gt;&gt; Right, right. &gt;&gt; And, and it's that sense of efficacy that people come away with. We think, mechanistically, it might have to do with increased enhancement of executive function. That's kind of a catchphrase for a how we can organize our cognitions and behaviors, you know, if in real time. So, that's what we have today. We're ready to initiate a control clinical trial. It's a very interesting area. &gt;&gt; It is. &gt;&gt; And it won't be restricted of course, ultimately to nicotine. There's no reason this couldn't be an approach for any addictive disorder, but more than that Probably any form of radical behavior change. So there, there are real fascinating implications here. &gt;&gt; And these are small clinical trials being conducted around the United States? &gt;&gt; Well, right now, all we have is this one pilot trial, and it's an uncontrolled pilot trial at Johns Hopkins. But the results are, are so promising, that they really call for a controlled clinical trial, and what I suspect is that once we go ahead and report this kind of work, there'll be other, probably academic sites will come in and start doing more research. But we actually need to do the research, because these compounds have been so demonized, culturally, and within the medical and the treatment community. The first impulse is, this doesn't make any sense. It sounds crazy. &gt;&gt; Right, right. Well, thank you so much, Roland Griffiths, for your time today. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; We really appreciate it. In Dr Griffith's Nicotine and Psilocybin study, did the nicotine-dependent participants get the Psilocybin before or after cognitive-behavioral therapy? If you said after, you are correct. Remember, Dr Griffis talked about cognitive behavioral therapy before the participants were exposed to psilocybin. That way the participants were very aware of how often they smoked and when they smoked. In the study, did the psilocybin make the cravings for cigarettes or nicotine go away? Yes or no. If you chose no, you are correct. Doctor Griffiths did say that people reported having a renewed sense of self-efficacy, and that may have been why they weren't craving it. However, he did note that we do not know the mechanism of action for why people did have their cravings decreased. Your organization has done a few trials looking at treating post traumatic stress disorder with MDMA. And a few questions, one, why MDMA out of all the drugs, to use, if you could address that first. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Actually the, the last surviving person with legal permission to give LSD was a Doctor Bostians in Holland. And he worked with LSD with concentration camp survivors. And a lot of the concentration camp survivors, not were only Jews, but Dutch resistance fighters, and they later became part of the Dutch Government. And they protected him, and there was a book that was written by an Isreali holocaust survivor who went to the Netherlands to receive LSD as part of his treatment. And the book is terrific. It's called Shivitti, A Vision. But it's very difficult to read. Not only because he's sharing some of the things that happened to him during the concentration camp, but because LSD itself is very challenging. And MDMA on the other hand is gentle in a profound way. So, when they tried to figure out what would be the drug that would be most likely to make it through the system first and become approved as, as a medicine with psychedelic drug would make it first. And then also, what clinical conditions should we pick? And so, I spent a lot of time strategically trying to evaluate that. the reason why MDMA, I think, is the top choice is because it's not that fundamentally different from our normal way of processing. That people when they take MDMA, they don't have the same kind of challenge to their logical train of thought. So, we felt that MDMA would be something that psychiatrists and psychotherapists would be more willing to experiment with on their own. So that they could be more effective therapists. And then, MDMA, because of the way that it reduces fear reactions, it's got an ideal treatment for post traumatic stress disorder. It works really well. And also there's not a lot of effective treatments for PTSD out there. Zoloft and Paxil are the only medications that are available. And they are marginally effective. Most people say they're not very effective at all. And then, there's a lot of psychotherapies that have been developed, like prolonged exposure. And they work in a significant group of people. But there's a lot of people for whom the available treatments don't work. So, all of that came together. And the other thing about MDMA, we, we call it our aikido strategy of research, which is that there are hundreds of millions of dollars, about $300 million. We estimate have been spent on scientific studies about what's bad with MDMA. And they're all in the public domain, and they've been funded by governments in the world since the middle 80s to try to justify prohibition. And, because of that, we're a small non-profit. If we had to think about making a drug into a medicine and we had to spend 300 million on safety studies, we, we'd never get it. So, we're taking all of this energy to demonize MDMA and turning it around, and saying we have an incredible information about the safety profile. So, in a way, we want to focus on demonized drugs that have been used by tens of millions of people illegally. Because the FDA, when they approve a drug, it's been approved on the basis of several thousand people, at the most. But the 100,000 risk that happens, somebody dies from this or that. Or like allergies to penicillin, or aspirin. People die from those things. But you don't find it in the context of working with a few thousand people. So, with MDMA, where it's been used by millions and millions of people, we know the risk profile. So, it was a combination of the gentleness and the profound nature of MDMA and it's effect on fear. And there's a disease, PTSD, that's accepted by FDA, and there's an excellent measure, the CAPS, the clinician administered PTSD scale. And what's really good is that the progress that people make therapeutically is mapped very carefully by the CAPS, in contrast to work with end of life. So that we have people so the whole work was psychedelics with LSD and Psilocybin and MDMA, for end of life, it's more difficult to make that into a medicine. Because when people become ready to die, that's not so clearly captured on the state trade anxiety inventory or measures that have been used by the FDA to approve drugs for anxiety. So, it's, it's a combination of all these factors that lead us to think about MDMA as our drug and PTSD as our condition. So, that's our basic model and people, because of what we're trying to do, meaning making this drug into a prescription medicine and because there's such concerns about the risks of MDMA, we've decided to work with the hardest cases. So, we work with people that are chronic PTSD, which means they've had it for at least six months. And once somebody has had PTSD for six months, they're not likely to get better on their own. And we work only with people that have failed on other treatments, so we were with chronic treatment resistant, people with PTSD. Our first study mostly women, survivors of childhood sexual abuse, had PTSD an average of over 19 years. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; And had failed on multiple courses of drugs and therapy. And over 80% of them no longer had PTSD at the end of the, two months after their last MDMA session. So, the setting, we call it our psychedelic bed and breakfast. It's [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; It's a really beautiful, it's actually, it's an office that used to be a home. So, it's, and it's an area of Charleston, South Carolina that's been renovated, so it's all commercial. But it has a kitchen in it. It has a place for a night attendant to spend the night. we let people bring in some of their family members, if they want to at night. we tend to let people at the end of the day bring their family members in also, if they wanted a the therapy session. And it's a male-female co-therapist team. So, the essence of their model is this two person team because they're there for eight hours. And the other, you know, they can take breaks a little bit to go eat or go to the bathroom. But we want one person there always with the subject. And then, the idea of the male female team is that if we can sort of model successful communication lot of people have not had you know, supportive parents or their relationships haven't been so good. And also, for safety. Some women have been raped or something, to have just one person there. You know, a man therapist is kind of risky also. So, for all these different reasons, we have a male female team. We're experimenting now, where one of the team would need to be a licensed psychiatrist or therapist. And the other could be a student learning to be a social worker or learning to be a psychologist or psychotherapist. And so, that accomplishes two things. It reduces our costs, so that, because we're able to fund this only through donations. But it also provides a way to train the next generation of therapists. &gt;&gt; Can you talk a little bit about the properties and how you can use that therapeutically and why kids say it's a psychedelic, what they're trying to experience? &gt;&gt; Yeah. I think there's a, maybe it will help to describe the difference between LSD and MDMA. And so, there's a way in which LSD dissolves the ego, dissolves the, the control structures of our brain. And then, people are sort of flooded with more material that they've been trying to suppress. And then, also they can have the sense of connection, where a lot of information that they've suppressed. Once the things come to the surface, they can feel more connected and the sense of unity is what then is the epitome, sort of the mystical experience. So, the classic psychedelics lead more towards this kind of psychedelic mystical experience. MDMA, on the other hand, strengthens the ego, it strengthens self acceptance. And it doesn't challenge the ego. But you become so comfortable in yourself that you can become less self-centered in a way and see the wider world. there was a linguist at Harvard that was looking for reading the transcripts of our sessions. And she did an analysis. And she figured out how to tell who got the placebo and who got the MDMA, in a way that none of us noticed. And what she figured out is at one point or another the people who got the MDMA asked the therapists how they were feeling. &gt;&gt; Oh. [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; So that you, you're more attenuated to the other, which is why its so good for couples therapy or couples for relationships. The other thing is that MDMA stimulates oxytocin and prolactin. So, the hormones of nursing of bonding of love, of relationships are stimulated by MDMA, so people feel more related and more connected. Which is why we're starting a new project for MDMA for autistic adults. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; And it's not, I mean logically, it makes sense. &gt;&gt; Mm-hm. &gt;&gt; But what really started us is that they're in the age of the Internet, there's all of these people who are doing all these different drugs and posting reports. And there's a large number of reports on the internet of people who are Asperger's or autism who took MDMA on their own and could understand emotions and could communicate better. &gt;&gt; Fascinating. &gt;&gt; And there's a woman Alicia Danforth, who's speaking at the conference, who did her PHD dissertation on contacting all those people as many where she could identify and ask them how MDMA was useful to them. And on the basis of that, we've designed a protocol and we've submitted to the FDA we should be hearing any day now or next week whether the FDA will accept this protocol or whether they want us to make some changes. But we feel pretty good that the FDA will say yes. &gt;&gt; But I think the application of MDMA to Autism to people that don't know how to read emotions in others and don't really understand their own emotions. Its a tremendous opportunity, and I think a lot of it has to do with this hormonal release aspect of MDMA. &gt;&gt; Right, excellent. Well, fascinating stuff. Thank you so much for your time we really appreciate it. It was great to hear Dr Griffiths and Dr Doblin discuss their exciting research with psychedelics. It really is fascinating. Now, in this section of the lesson, we discuss drugs of abuse and how they produce their psychoactive effects. And though we discuss the general classes of drugs, there are many specific drugs that we didn't get a chance to cover here. So now its times for you to head over to the instructor notes section and read the additional material that you'll need for this lesson. There we're going to discuss more drugs, and we're also going to look at the evaluation process for drugs getting approved by the FDA. And, finally, we'll finish up with some treatments for drug dependents, so head on over to the instructor notes section. As humans, we have evolved such that we're able to be aware of both our internal world and our external world. This is what we mean by consciousness. And we vary in our level of awareness and arousal throughout the day from when we wake to when we sleep. Sleep is vital for healthy functioning, both physiologically and psychologically. It allows our body to restore itself after a long day of activity. In addition, sleep aids us in memory consolidation and it helps us learn. Dreaming that occurs during REM Sleep also assists in brain growth and development. Humans have a long history of taking psychoactive drugs to change their consciousness. And we have many reasons why we take drugs including recreational, social, spiritual, and medical or psychological reasons. Depressants like the barbiturates, benzodiazepines and alcohol, depress central nervous system activity. Therefore, they can cause relaxation, and decrease anxiety. Opiates are very effective in treating pain. Stimulants like cocaine and methamphetamine increase sympathetic nervous system activity. Cannabis has been used medicinally. But it can also cause perceptual distortions. The hallucinogens like LSD and psilocybin produce profound changes in perception. Finally, although MDMA is also used recreationally, it is showing promise as a new treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder. Psychoactive drugs produce their effects by interacting with receptors, such as dopamine and serotonin receptors. And they mimic our naturally-occurring substances produced by the brain, such as our endorphins. How can trainers get sea lions to do tricks? Why is that I salivate when I smell fresh baked cookies? How can seeing someone else's behavior actually change my own behavior? Or why are some men sexually aroused by the sight of women's black boots? All of these questions can be answered with a simple term, learning. Learning is defined as enduring changes in behavior that occur with experience. Learning is fundamental to being successful in our environment. In this lesson, we're going to cover three distinct types of learning. First, we're going to look at the classic, Pavlov's dog and classical conditioning. Then, we're going to look at B. F. Skinner and his rats, and operant conditioning. And, finally, we're going to look at Albert Bandura's Bobo doll study and social learning. To get Greg back for bringing in the snake, I decided to use him to demonstrate some of the concepts we're going to learn about in this lesson. He's going to come in. I'm going to ring the bell, [SOUND] and then shoot him with a toy gun. I'm going to do that, [SOUND] all day long. Oh. [NOISE] He's going to be our real life example of classical conditioning. So what do you think will happen if I only hit the bell, but I don't shoot the gun. Look at this clip here. [SOUND] Will Greg grab the bell and just throw it away, will Greg flinch when I hit the bell, nothings going to happen, select 1. Now, let's watch the end of the clip, and see what happens. [SOUND]. Greg still flinched even though I didn't shoot the gun, but I hit the bill. We see that Greg still flinches, even though I didn't shoot him with the toy gun. He's learned to flinch after hearing the bell, because we classically conditioned him. To have a startle response to the sound of the bell. This is a learned association. I'm going to have Susan explain to you, what classical conditioning is all about. Classical conditioning is the study of reflexes. Things such as salivation, your eye blink, a knee jerk and even a startle response. [SOUND] Did that make you jump. Reflexes happen automatically and don't require any prior learning history to occur. Reflexes are unlearned, automatic responses that occur when particular stimuli are presented. It happens naturally, requires no learning history. So for example if I were to put lemon juice in your mouth, you would automatically salivate. So let's take a look at some examples. If I were to put a sour candy in your mouth, you would automatically salivate to that particular stimulus, the sour candy. Another example of a reflex is the eye blink. If you go to the eye doctor and they test for glaucoma, they're going to put a puff of air in your eye, and you are automatically going to blink to that particular stimulus, the puff of air. That's another example of a reflex. Now that we've covered reflexes, of the following ,which do you think are reflexes? Salivation, coughing, clapping, eye blink, skipping, startle response, eating, talking. Check all that you think are reflexes. So salivation is a reflex, when we put the sour candy in our mouth we automatically salivate. Coughing is also a reflex that happens automatically when particular stimuli affect your throat. Eye blink is also a reflex. And even our startle response. Do you remember the loud noise you heard in the earlier video? Perhaps that caused a startle response or even Gregg's startle response by getting hit by the toy gun. The other responses clapping, skipping, eating and talking do not happen automatically in response to particular stimuli, so they are not reflexes. The best way to learn about classical conditioning is by starting with its discovery by Ivan Pavlov, who was looking at digestion in dogs. Actually Pavlov learned about classical conditioning by accident. Here's what happened. Pavlov was actually a physiologist who was interested in studying digestion, and he used dogs to do so. Every day he would come into his laboratory, put a little bit of meat powder on the dog's tongue, and the dog would automatically salivate, and Pavlov collected that salivation and analyzed it. However, one day when Pavlov came into the lab, he saw that the dog salivated automatically, even though it didn't have any meat powder. Pavlov wondered if perhaps he could be the reason the dog was salivating, and it turns out he was correct. So if you remember from the original example, Pavlov was a neutral stimulus. So a neutral stimulus is a stimulus that originally produces no specific response other than perhaps an orienting response, meaning the dog looked at Pavlov. Next, we see that Pavlov repeatedly paired his sight with the meat power, thus the meat power was an unconditioned stimulus. Remember, an unconditioned stimulus is a stimulus that automatically causes a reflex to occur. The meat powder caused the dog to salivate. Here, the salivation is an unconditioned response. Remember, an unconditioned response is something that occurs automatically in the presence of a particular stimulus. Now remember in the beginning Pavlov was repeatedly paired with the meat powder. Then when he came by himself and did not give meat powder, so Pavlov became a conditioned stimulus. A conditioned stimulus is a previously neutral stimulus that comes to elicit a response due to its pairing with an unconditioned stimulus. So when Pavlov approached the dog as a conditioned stimulus, It caused a conditioned response, and a conditioned response is one that occurs in the presence of a condition stimulus presented alone. So, here, the sight of Pavlov was the condition stimulus, the salivation was the conditioned response. So, how did this happen? Pavlov always predicted meat powder in the dog's mouth. The sight of Pavlov meant meat powder was coming. Pavlov wanted to test this experimentally, so what he did was he provided a neutral stimulus, a tone [SOUND] , followed by meat powder, and he did this repeatedly. Tone [SOUND] , meat powder, tone sss , meat powder. Then he wanted to see whether or not the tone was able to produce salivation. Here he presents the tone alone. [SOUND] And the dog did salivate. The essence of classical conditioning is the pairing process, where a formally neutral stimulus, [SOUND] becomes a conditioned stimulus. Predictive ability is the key. Here we see all the material needed for Pavlov's classically conditioning a dog to salivate to a tone. See if you can match each of the terms by putting in the initials to each of the parts in Pavlov's experiment. If you can't recall the terms, go back and watch the video where we describe those. So, before conditioning, the tone is a neutral stimulus. It elicits no specific response other than perhaps an orienting response. After conditioning, the tone is the condition stimulus. Prior to conditioning, the meat powder is an unconditioned stimulus. It automatically elicits salivation, which brings us to our unconditioned response. The dog salivating to the meat powder. Remember after the conditioning, now we have our CS of the tone and the dog will salivate the condition response to the tone. Great job if you got those right. So, let's recap. Remember originally, the tone is a neutral stimulus. It does not elicit any response except perhaps the dog orienting, meaning it heard it. Then, we pair our tone with the unconditioned stimulus. Recall that a unconditioned stimulus automatically causes a reflexive response. In this case, the meat powder automatically causes the dog to salivate. Next, after these repeated pairings, tone, food, tone, food, we test to see if classical conditioning has occurred. To do this we present the conditioned stimulus alone and we see does the animal respond. In this case, the animal did salivate so now we can call the tone a conditioned stimulus and the salivation to the tone a conditioned response. So we have just a few more terms left to discuss in classical conditioning. So here we see the repeated process of pairing the neutral stimulus with the unconditioned stimulus, is a process called acquisition. And it occurs after several trials. Okay. Now what would happen to the dog's response if we repeatedly presented the tone and never followed it with meat powder? It would salivate more. It would salivate less. It would bark. Or, it would stop salivating. So check as many or as few of the responses that you think are correct. If you're not sure, that's okay. Just think carefully about the question and give it a try. Here we have 2 correct responses. First, the dog would start to salivate less, and eventually the second response, it would stop salivating altogether. So if we repeatedly sounded the tone over and over and did not follow it with meat powder, we would see the process of extinction. Eventually the dog would start to salivate less, and then he would stop salivating all together. Here we could say the classically conditioned response has been extinguished. However, if we wait 2 weeks, and we come into the lab and we present the conditioned stimulus, or we sound the tone, we see then the dog, in fact, will salivate. That salivation is termed spontaneous recovery. Spontaneous recovery happens when a previously conditioned response has been extinguished, and it occurs again when the conditioned stimulus is presented at a later time. So let's take a look at how these last 3 terms in classical conditioning. Aquisition, extinction, and spontaneous recovery occur. So on this graph we can look at the process of classical conditioning. On the bottom we have successive trials, and on our vertical axis we have strength of the condition response. Notice here we're pairing the condition stimulus with the uncondition stimulus. That results in acquisition. Next, we present the condition stimulus alone. Just the tone. And here, we see the strength of the condition response decreases, and it eventually stops. This is extinction. Next we have a rest period, where we do not present the tone to the dog. Following the rest period we present the CS alone, and notice we do have a condition response. This is term spontaneous recovery. So now that Susan explained classical conditioning, let's look back to when I classically conditioned Greg, and identify the parts of classical conditioning. Let's start here. Here I am with the bell. The bell originally didn't produce any significant [SOUND] response from Greg, other than maybe looking around. So what's the original term we would give to the bell in this situation? Is it the unconditioned stimulus? Is it the unconditional response, is it the conditioned response, or is it the neutral stimulus? The correct answer is it's a neutral stimulus. Because before I paired it with the toy gun, it didn't cause any specific response. What was the unconditioned stimulus, when I classically conditioned Greg? Was it the bell? Was it Greg flinching? Or, was it getting hit by the dart from the toy gun? Please select one. The unconditioned stimulus, was getting hit by the dart from the toy gun, because it automatically caused Greg to flinch. When Greg flinched when he was hit with the unconditioned stimulus, what is the classical conditioning term that we use for flinching? Is it the neutral stimulus, is it the unconditioned stimulus, is it the unconditioned response, or is it the conditioned response? Flinching after being hit with the toy gun was the unconditioned response because it automatically happened after he was hit with the toy gun. The neutral stimulus which was the bell was repeatedly paired with the unconditioned stimulus which was the toy gun to elicit a response and that was Greg flinching. So what do we now call the bell after this repeated pairing. Is it the neutral stimulus? Is it the conditioned stimulus? Is it the unconditioned response? Or is it the conditioned response? The bell is now the conditioned stimulus, because it can now cause a specific reaction, flinching. The bell is now the condition stimulus. But what is flinching now that it happens after he just hears the bell. So after the pairing, is it the neutral stimulus, is it the unconditioned response, or is it the conditioned response? Flinching is now the conditioned response, because Greg has learned to flinch when we ring the bell. What is the process called when we successfully condition Greg to flinch after he hears the repeated pairing of the neutral stimulus with the unconditioned stimulus, and then the neutral stimulus becomes a condition stimulus, which will elicit the condition response. Is this process called a acquisition. Is it called extinction or is it called spontaneous recovery? Select 1. This process is called acquisition. So now that we've conditioned Greg, why do I need to extinguish his fear of bells? Type your response here. Go ahead and think about it for a minute. I want a thoughtful response. There's many reasons why we might need to extinguish this fear. The main thing I would say is for ethical reasons. Now, it's not fair to leave Greg with his fear of bells. What if he's waiting in line at a deli and someone hits a bell, then he jumps and he drops all his food because he's scared he's going to hit with a toy gun. It might be kind of embarrassing for him, however, one important reason why we would want to extinguish this fear is because of something called generalization. I'm going to talk to you guys about generalization using the classical conditioning example of the little Albert study. So, a famous example of classical conditioning is the Little Albert study. John B. Watson, in 1920, wanted to see if we could classically condition a fear or a phobia. So, he used a nine month old baby they called Little Albert. He let Little Albert play with the white rat. And Albert loved this rat. He wasn't scared of him at all. But then Watson would hit a steel pipe with a hammer to create loud bang. [NOISE] And that would really scare Albert, it would make him cry and feel really fearful. And eventually, after several pairings of this loud bang [NOISE] while Albert played with the white rat, Albert began to fear the rat. So, the rat became the conditioned stimulus and the crying and the fear. Albert's experienced was a condition response. So, it's sad that Little Albert no longer like the white rat that he used to like. But here's the thing it gets worse, Albert started to fear things that were similar to the rat, this is called generalization. Albert generalized his fear to other furry things such as bunnies, dogs, even Watson himself when he wore a rabbit mask. But the mask was pretty creepy so I don't blame him. Now, it actually gets worse. Watson never extinguished his fear so Albert had it throughout his whole life. There's contradictory reports on what actually happened to Albert after the study from he was a well adjusted adult to he died at a young age or he lived his life with an extreme phobia of all furry things. But we just don't know. So, we really don't want this to happen to Greg and have him be scared of the bell so life so we need to extinguish his fear. So we demonstrated how you can condition a fear response with a little Albert study. But there are some fear responses that can be conditioned after a single pairing. Phobias can be conditioned after a single pairing. Say you were stung by a bee once and you were allergic, so every time you saw a bee you were scared of it. Or if you had a near drowning experience when swimming, you might always be scared of the water after that. But we're going to talk about phobias more later in the course when we talk about psychological disorders. But there is one thing I want to talk about here. Condition taste aversion. That can happen after just a single pairing. Let me go grab Susan so I can demonstrate this to you guys. A conditioned taste aversion can occur when an organism ingests something and it makes them ill. For example, Susan here has a conditioned taste aversion to Moo Shu Pork. So Susan, how does that make you feel? [LAUGH] Oh gosh, I feel I feel like I might want to vomit and I'm salivating and I don't like it at all. I'm sorry, I'll, I'll put it down. Susan's nausea and sickness is paired with the sight, the smell and the taste of the food. So from an evolutionary perspective, this makes sense. We should try to avoid things in the future that have made us ill. So sorry, Susan that was just a little payback for Tickles the snake. I forgive you, Lauren. Thanks. Here we can see that condition taste aversion happens after only one trial. That's different from classical conditioning, where we have repeated presentations. For example, I got sick on Moo Shu Pork over ten years ago, and as you can see today, I still can't stomach it. So, let's move away from the Moo Shu Pork example. I'd like to finish this lesson on classical conditioning by talking about a study that classically conditioned a sexual response to women's black boots. Researches conditioned men to be sexually aroused at the sight of black boots. To do this they repeatedly showed men pictures of black boots followed by pictures of nude women, then assessed their sexual arousal. At the end of the study the participants were of course de-conditioned to the sight of black boots. That way, when they were walking around and saw black boots they weren't aroused. Can you identify the parts of the study? Try to match these terms with the different parts of the study. Neutral stimulus, unconditioned stimulus, unconditioned response, conditioned stimulus, pictures of nude women, black boots after the pairing that elicit sexual arousal, sexual arousal from pictures of nude women. Black boots before the pairing. Sexual arousal from black boots. Please write the corresponding number for the term in the boxes. For example, if you think that neutral stimulus is a picture of the nude women, put a 1 in this box. The neutral stimulus was the black boots before pairing. The other condition stimulus was a picture of the nude women. The unconditioned response was a sexual arousal from the nude women. The condition stimulus was the black boots which could elicit that could elicit the sexual arousal and the condition response was a sexual arousal from the black boots There's tons of examples of Classical Conditioning on YouTube. Go check out some of the videos and see if you can identify the different parts of Classical Conditioning. I'm going to post a few links in the instructors notes box, so that way it'll get you started on your search. Now, classical conditioning explains a lot of our behaviors. But only our reflexive behaviors. Things such as salivation, and our startle response. So how do get the more complicated behaviors that we engage in? Well, we do so through what's called operant conditioning. Now, B.F Skinner started the field of operant conditioning. And he had the idea that we operate on our environment. And our behavior is selected from the environment, meaning, if we engaged in the behavior and something positive happens from that, we're likely to do it again in the future. However, if we engage in a behavior and something bad happens, we're less likely to do that again in the future. So with operant conditioning, we have our large muscles in being involved instead of our just reflexive behaviors. Let's go into this in a little more detail. So B.F Skinner studied rats and pigeons in an operand conditioning chamber, which is called a Skinner box. Inside the Skinner box, they have a food dispenser and a level that the rat can press. Other conditioning chambers have things such as lights, as well. Now you might wonder why did Skinner look at rats and pigeons in a Skinner box. Well it turns out that what he learned from the Skinner box can be applied to humans, meaning the information from the animals generalizes to human behavior as well. First we want to know why does the rat first press the lever. Well, it turns out rats are exploratory creatures, meaning they will walk around their environment and check it out, And so when the rat is first placed in the Skinner Box, it may go over to the corner Stand up and smell the walls. But eventually it may come over and bump into the lever, or stand on it to smell something up here. When that first occurrence happens, we can deliver a food pellet to the rat. But how do we get the rat to press a lever again? We can get the rat to press the lever through the process of shaping, and shaping is reinforcing successive approximations to the final target behavior. So if the rat were standing over here in the corner, I wouldn't deliver a food pellet. However if the rat started to approach the lever, I could deliver a food pellet. Eventually you'll reinforcing those behaviors that are closest to the final one. Shaping is important for many of our operant conditioning and behaviors. Now when Skinner was first studying rats in his Skinner box, he actually made his own food pallets, and that was quite tedious. So he wondered what would happen if, instead of reinforcing every level press, he actually spaced out some of those reinforcers. And this is how he discovered an entire field of study, of schedules of reinforcement. There are many different schedules, but the two we'll just discuss briefly here are ratio schedules and interval schedules. We have a ratio schedule and I could have a fixed ratio of five, which means every fifth response is reinforced. We also have interval schedules. Those are time schedules, so I could have a fixed interval of 30 seconds. That would mean that the first response that occurred after 30 seconds was reinforced. Skinner famously compared rats in his Skinner box to humans by looking at humans in casinos. On a variable schedule, reinforcement occurs on a variable schedule, meaning perhaps after every ten responses, after every 20 responses. This type of schedule engenders a lot of behavior. You can just go to Las Vegas and watch people at the slot machines pulling the levers. They're no different than rats pressing levers in their Skinner boxes. Skinner studied rats in Skinner boxes. The behavior first has to occur before it can be reinforced. We can use shaping, which is reinforcing successive approximations to the target behavior. And we can generate different types of behavior through schedules of reinforcement. Be sure to read the pdf in the instructor's notes on schedules of reinforcement. We're going to talk more about operant conditioning, however, this time with another animal, sea lions. We're at Moss Landing Marine Laboratories today with Dr Zalleg, and we're going to see some of her sea lions So you might ask, what do Sea lions have to do with psychology, and why did Susan and I come here? Well Dr Zalleg is going to teach us about classical and operant conditioning and how she can get her sea lions to do this Kiss. [NOISE] Thank you, Saki. Before we speak to Doctor [UNKNOWN], let's discuss the basics of Operant Conditioning. Now Operant Conditioning looks at consequences of behavior. We have the A, B, C's of Operant Conditioning. The A is the antecedent. There has to be a queue and a motivation to perform the behavior. As you will see, Doctor [UNKNOWN] uses a target as the queue. The fish reward or the praise is the motivation to do the behavior. One thing we should note is that fish is a primary reinforcer and praise is a secondary reinforcer. So food would be a primary reinforcement because we need it. Praise is a secondary or conditioned reinforcer because we learn to enjoy praise. Next we have B, which as you might have guessed, is behavior. The behavior you saw on the first clip was a kiss from Saki, the sea lion. And finally, C, which is the consequence. By getting the fish or the praise, we increase the likelihood of repeating the behavior in the future. So in this case with the kiss, the consequence was something good. Saki received praise and a fish for giving the kiss. However, if the consequence for the kiss was something bad, it would decrease the likelihood of the behavior. Now, there are two distinct processes that control behavior. It's reinforcement and punishment. A reinforcement always results in an increase in the future likelihood a behavior will occur under similar circumstances. Meaning, if Saki is always reinforced with fish or praise after giving a kiss, it's likely that next time she is asked to give a kiss during a demonstration, that she's going to do it. On the other hand, a punishment always results in the decreased likelihood of a behavior occurring. So, for example, if Sake was punished every time she gave a kiss, she would be less likely to do that behavior again. Now let's go to an interview with Dr. Zeligs. My name is Dr Jenifer Zeligs. And I am the director of Training and Research for a Special Program here at Cal State University. Which functions like a teaching aquarium for students from all over the world. To come and learn about how to use animal behavior modification to take the best possible care of animals. And work with them in zoo and aquarium environments, as well as in research facilities. So, and you're writing a book, as you're an expert in the field. What was that book? it's called Animal Training 101, the complete and practical guide to the art and science of behavior modification. And I hope it'll be a good guide for people who are interested in animal training and behavior in general. Wonderful. So, do you use the ABCs of operant conditioning in your work? Yes, so the ABCs of operant conditioning is one of the classic ways that people explain the idea of how behavior is developed. And A stands for antecedent, B behavior, and C consequences. This is the method by which behavior is created, whether I'm doing it intentionally, or whether it's happening on its own in the natural world. The antecedent to trained behavior is a cue. The antecedent in the process of training is usually a type of, of conditioning technique that you'd use, for example you'll see us using targets. This is a thing that we can use to cause and create the behavior that we then want to see, which is the B. And then the C, the consequence, is the reward, the reinforcement, that influences the animal to want to do that behavior again in the future. Another type of consequence can be a punisher, so there's two types of, well there's actually 3 types of consequences. Reinforcer, which increases the frequency of the behavior. Neutral, which does nothing to the frequency of behavior. And punisher, which decreases the frequency of behavior. Now as Doctor Zelig says, the ABCs can be used intentionally to change behavior. But, we should also be aware that the ABCs occur in our natural environment. For example, let's say you're thirsty. This is a motivation, then you see the refrigerator, which is the cue, and you grab a soda and drink it, which is the behavior. Then your thirst is quenched. Annie had something tasty to drink, which is the consequence. Because the consequence was positive, this tells me that I'm more likely to go to the refrigerator and get a drink when I'm thirsty. However, there's another way you can look at this. Let's take the same scenario. First say you're thirsty, which is your motivation. You see the refrigerator, which is your cue. So the behavior in this scenario is that you grab milk and drink it. But it was sour milk. So the consequence in this scenario is that you spit out the milk and it was really gross, it didn't quench your thirst. So this is a negative consequence. Therefore, you're going to be less likely to go back to the refrigerator and grab milk in the future. How do you think training animals in captivity can actually help the animals? Type in your response here. One of the main ways that training animals in captivity can actually help them is through husbandry practices. Husbandry is a dynamic set of relationships between humans and animals that's providing care and enrichment for the betterment of animals in captivity. This can include physical care as well as behavior enrichment, but let's go back to doctor Zelixs to explain this because it's truly an amazing thing. What excites me the most about my career is that I think that, that training animals in captivity is the absolutely best thing you could do for any animal, because it teaches them to cooperate with their own care. It gives them freedom from stress because they learn to understand more about their environment. And it develops a very positive feeling about their caregivers and their entire experience. So we can train animals to do amazing things. Including eye drops and stomach tubes, inoculations. We have injected the animals with anesthesia and removed teeth voluntarily. Instead of having to do something of use of like hold them down and force them through a procedure. We can release our animals into the open ocean and train them to perform behaviors working with us to work as watchdogs. Which is what the military does or as researchers which is what I have done working with them in their natural environment and they choose to come back. On the strength of the basis of the relationship that we have with them. So we can take better care of them, as well as, learn from them, as well as, enrich them through this method. So say I or, you know, one of our students wants do do what you do, how can we do that? So, we actually offer internships for people. People come all over the world, and come and work with our sea lions. They can learn how to train the sea lions up close and personal. And learn all of these basic psychology techniques. So even if you're not a psychologist, you can learn how to apply psychology and practice it right here in the facility with really amazing animals. We often talk about classical and operant conditioning separately. However, they can be used together to change behavior. A perfect example of this is the story of Callie the sea lion. Let's go talk to Dr Zeligs about this. She can tell us more. Callie's back story is both heartbreaking and inspirational. So, she's the youngest of my group, and she is, I believe, eight years old at this point. She was one of the youngest surviving premature baby sea lions that has ever made it. She was born more than one month premature. And her mother died of demolic acid poisoning. Which is a type of toxic algae, it's a neuro toxin. Callie was exposed to that toxin in utero, and has a huge range of neurologic and gastrointestinal problems as a result of this exposure, so it's been touch and go her whole life and one of her big problems is because of this really sort of form of brain damage, she doesn't like food. So her natural instinct is to starve herself and we have had to use classical conditioning actually to keep her alive, because what she does like is behavior and people, because how she was raised. So we used behavior and people to reward her for eating, which is the opposite of what you normally think, but it's a great testimony to what classical and operant conditioning can do, and today she's alive and healthy. So learning saved her life. [LAUGH] Learning saved her life and, and she has learned to like fish. Now let's go see all this in action with Dr.Zelicks and Callie the sea lion. This is Carlie. Callie, can you wave hi? Good! Can you wave with the other hand? Good, good. Here at Moss Landing Green Laboratories, we run a teaching aquarium for students, can we salute? Good. From all over the world. The beginning of the foundation of the relationship that I have with Carlie is basic obedience. Water. Good. So I put her in the water when I ask. Hold. I can ask her to wait there patiently for me. And the reason that she's willing to do these things is because of the reinforcement history of [INAUDIBLE] conditioning that I have used to form these basic behaviors. The second basic behavior that I have used all the time is one of the basic [INAUDIBLE] training techniques and it's called targeting good. This is a nose target. And Carlie is trained to put her nose to my hand. Wherever I put my hand, Carlie's nose is going to go. Good. And she stops targeting when she hears that sound that I make which is called a bridge. A bridge is a stimulus that tells the animal they've done something correctly, and reinforcement is coming. There's a type of secondary reinforcer, a conditioned reinforcer which helps the animal understand the reinforcement is on its way, without having to deliver the reinforcement at that very second. Carllie is receiving a variety of different types of reinforcers. That right there is an ice cube, which she's been conditioned to like. And we've conditioned her to like it by association with other things that she already likes. Including, the fish. And then there's also her relationship with me. This is tactile reinforcement that she has to be trained to enjoy. Yes! Don't stop! Yes! Don't stop! One of the things that comes from being associated with reinforcement for a long period of time is the relationship. Through classical conditioning by associating myself with all good experiences for her, I have a strong value to her, I have more value than the food has. And we're demonstrating that right now because the food is over there and she and I are right here together. That's what can be formed with a long history of partnership. Yes? Good! Alright What was the target Dr.Zeligs gave Cali? Was it Dr.Zeligs' hand? Was it when she said good? Was it the fish? Was it the bucket Dr.Zeligs was holding. Select one. The target, was Dr Zelig's hand, but let's have Dr Zelig explain this a little further. So, we've got the target and the bridge and the water command comes off the, the target command by just moving the target into the water. I can also ask Callie to go target at a distance from me, that's something I call a remote target. And it works just like my hand target does. Callie. Target. Hold. Where Callie will touch her nose to that spot. And part of the shaping of that behavior, good. Is that we extend the target behavior out for longer and longer durations of time as Callie has had a chance to master the behavior. Good. Now, we can add, to create more complicated behaviors, we can add more target points onto the animal's body. So, this is the flipper target, and I can use this flipper target to examine Callie's flippers and her under surface to make sure that there's no cuts or abrasions, or anything developing that we wouldn't want to see. Good. We can create a target on any place of the animal's body that we want. Good. And we have created even more complicated targets. Callie has a head target. Head. [LAUGH] Good. That I've used to create other behaviors such as this one for example, which is called flexible. Good. So, this is the head target that I use and I moved closer and closer back. Good! To create this behavior which is now on cue. Okay, this is a new behavior for Callie, she's just learning this behavior, and because of that, the target pole prop is still in there. Some of these other behaviors no longer has the target that used to create the behavior. So, just like my hand target, the target pole. The end of the target pole is where Callie is going to put her nose. Wherever I put my target, Callie will put her nose. And with some practice and practicing the antecedent of the cue, or the command, prior to the behavioral sequence that I'm forming through operand conditioning. I can eventually take the target pullout and she will do the behavior just on command because of the rehearsal history. In this case, the behavior is not ready for the target pull to be removed yet .This is the back flip behavior for, which my program is famous. That is our logo. And this behavior is initially formed in the lower portions of the water, where the animal has full control. And they learn to first do the back flip here. Good. Then I use the target pole to lift the back flip up and hold it in position out of the air like so after being preceded by the antecedent cue. Flip, good, flip! Flip, good! And that's how you get a back flip. Good job. Way to go you! Yeah! Good job! [NOISE] Good. The benefits of animal training and husbandry, demonstrated live and in person by Callie the sea lion. So with the ABCs with Callie, can you give us an example of how those were applied? Yeah. So once the behavior has been trained, the antecedent is the cue or the SD, the stimulus descriptive. Then the behavior would be her putting her head back to her back. That's the behaviour, and then the consequence is the bridge and the reinforcement. The bridge is a form of reinforcement and then the fish being the other, primary form of reinforcement. As we saw Dr Zale using positive reinforcement to increase behavior, sometimes, we want to decrease behavior, and we can do that through extinction. And you'll remember that we had extinction in classical conditioning also. For operant conditioning, extinction is the process of withholding the reinforcer when the behavior occurs. Eventually if you take the reinforce away that behavior is going to decrease, so it's a process of removing the reinforcement and a general decrease in behavior across time. Although it's easy to talk about extinction, it can be difficult to implement. And one of the main reasons is that behavior that's undergoing extinction often results in aggressive or emotional behavior. And sometimes we originally see an increase in that behavior, when we start the extinction process. Let's go over a little more detail about Operant Conditioning, before I send you over to Susan for a wrap-up on this section in the lesson. So when the consequences of our behavior result in something being added to the environment. To increase the likelihood of the behavior occurring again in the future. This is called a positive reinforcement because we're adding something to the environment. On the other hand, when the consequences of our behavior result in something being removed from the environment to increase the likelihood of the behavior occurring in the future. This is a negative reinforcement. Because something is being removed from the environment. Now it's important to note here, that both of these are reinforcements, and reinforcements increase the likelihood of a behavior. So even though here, something is added. And here something is removed. They both increase a likelihood of a behavior, but do so using different mechanisms. Now I'll send you back to Susan to finish up this section on operant conditioning. Before we move on to social learning. Let's take a look at Lauren's example of ABCs in the natural environment. In the first example, she talked about thirst. Thirst was our motivation. The refrigerator was our cue, or discriminative stimulus. And the behavior was grabbing a soda and taking a drink. And then we said the thirst is quenched. But lemme ask you this. are we adding refreshment, or are we removing thirst? In the second example Lauren says that we spit out the milk, because it tasted bad. so here did we add an unpleasant taste, or did we remove a bad taste? These are 2 good examples to demonstrate that sometimes it's difficult to distinguish whether something is being added to the environment or removed from the environment. But just remember, if behavior increases, it is reinforcement, and if behavior decreases, it's punishment. We also want you to know that some people in the field argue about whether or not we even need the distinction of positive and negative punishment or positive and negative reinforcement, and it is difficult to tell. For example, if you're cold and you put a sweater on, are you adding warmth? Or you decreasing cold. The main thing to remember about operant conditioning is that reinforcement always increases the future likelihood of a behavior occurring, and punishment always decreases the likelihood of behavior occurring. Let's take a look at this two by two table of operant consequences. Notice we have a plus and a minus. You should think of this as adding something to the environment or taking something away. Do not think of the plus and minus as good or bad. But rather just a mathematical operation. So we have our operation. Are we adding something or subtracting something? On the consequence side, we're going to either add a reinforcer or remove a reinforcer. Let's think of our example with Callie, when Dr Zelegg gave a piece of fish to Callie, she was using that fish as a reinforcer, and it was an impetative stimulus something that we enjoy. We can also increase behavior by removing something aversive. For example, you wake up and your alarm clock is blaring loud, that's very aversive. You turn your alarm clock off, you remove that aversivness from your environment and you're likely to engage in that behavior again in the future. Reinforcer is always increasing behavior. Let's look at punishers. In this box we would call this positive reinforcement, because we're adding something to the enviornment. In this box we call it negative reinforcement because we're taking something away. We can also use these operations for punishment. For punisher, if we add something aversive after a behavior occurs, we're going to see a decrease in the likelihood of that behavior occurring in the future. We can also remove something positive or appetitive and also see a decrease. So, for example, if you touch a light switch with a wet hand and you get shocked, you're adding pain to your environment and you probably won't do that again in the future. Here, you're playing with your video games and you hit your brother and your mum takes away your video games. You're losing something that you enjoy and you're less likely to engage in that behavior again in the future. So in this example, this would be positive punishment because you're adding a punisher. And in this box, it would be negative punishment because you're taking away something that is appetitive or something that we like and we also see a decrease in behavior. Reinforcement increase, punishment decrease. Sometimes students have a hard time determining whether something is reinforcement or punishment, or positive reinforcement or negative reinforcement. The first the easiest thing to do is to say does the behavior increase? If the behavior increases, it's reinforcement. If the behavior decreases, it's punishment. After you decide that, then go back and look, did the behavior increase because something was added to the environment? If so that's positive reinforcement. Or did the behavior increase because something was taken away from the environment? If so that's negative reinforcement. And the same for punishment. If behavior decreases, did it decrease because something was added to the environment, for example a painful shock? That would be positive punishment, and removing something from the environment and behavior decreasing would be negative punishment. So first ask, does behavior increase or decrease? And then ask, did it happen because something was added to the environment or taken away? You can use this when you're going through the problem sets, but I encourage you to look at your own life and see examples of positive and negative punishment, and positive and negative reinforcement. Now because this is an intro course, we can't go into depth into operant conditioning, but I do want you to know that it's used across a variety of disciplines and subfields. For example, we did see Dr. Zelig use operant conditioning in her animal training and behavioral modification. We also know that operant conditioning is used in treating drug dependence. People in industrial organizational psychology use the principals of operant conditioning to increase worker productivity as well as decrease accidents on the job site. We want to thank everybody at Cal State University and Moss Landing Marine Laboratories for letting us come here and learn all about operant conditioning and classical conditioning. But now I think its' time for us to head back, let these girls take a break and start talking about social learning. Thank you. Wave goodbye. Bye. [UNKNOWN] Albert Bandura is a famous psychologist known for his research on social learning. He conducted a series of really well known studies that showed us how sensitive we were to learning from the consequences of other people. And he did so using this guy. A bobo doll. The famous 1960s bobo doll case focused on two areas of social learning, modeling and reinforcement. Modeling is a term that Van Duren used to describe the process of observing and imitating behaviors performed by other people. Now, reinforcement is just like with [INAUDIBLE] conditioning where we add something to increase the frequency of the behavior. Van Duren noted that people will do things other people do especially if they are rewarded for it. Bandura studied observing aggression using two groups. This group watched the adult act aggressively with the Bobo doll, like this. The second group was the control group. This group watched the adult not being aggressive with Bobo, like this. What is the independent variable in this Bobo Doll study? Is it the Bobo Doll? Is it the adult aggression towards the Bobo doll? Is it the child's aggression towards the Bobo doll? Or, is it the researcher? In our example of Bandura's Bobo doll study, I'm the researcher. The independent variable for this study is the adult aggression because it changes between the two groups. After the children either saw the adult being aggressive or not being aggressive depending on what group their in. The children were put in a room full of toys and the researcher measured the child's aggressive behavior. Now, what is the dependent variable in this study, is it the Bobo doll? The adult's aggression towards the Bobo doll, the child's aggression towards the Bobo doll, or the researcher, who in this example of the study, would be me. The child's aggressive behavior is a dependent variable in this study, because it's what's being measured. Bandora found that children in the experimental group who saw the adults' aggressive behavior, acted more aggressively themselves. And the children in the controlled group, were not as aggressive with the bobo doll because they didn't see the adult being aggressive. Another study Bandura did focused on reinforcing the observed behavior. Bandura put children in to four groups. Group one saw a video with no models. Group two saw two adult males interacting in a nonaggressive way. Group three and group four saw two adult males playing with one of the males being aggressive. However in group three, the aggressive one was punished. And in group four, the aggressive one was rewarded. The first two groups are what we would consider the control groups. In group three and group four were the experimental groups. The results show that the kids in the two experimental groups were more aggressive than the kids in the control groups. However, the kids who saw the adult being rewarded were even more aggressive than anyone else. This proves that we not only learn from other people's behavior, we also take into account the consequences of other people's behavior. And those consequences would be either punishment or the reward. Do you remember in the first lesson when I was pretty scared of that snake? Well, it's a pretty common fear to have. But there's another animal that I'm not scared of, that a lot of people are afraid of. And that's sharks, I love sharks. One of the main reasons why I love sharks is because my big brother Jay, is a professional shark diver. He takes me diving with him. He sends me awesome pictures of him and sharks. And tells me how much he enjoys swimming with these beautiful creatures. So what is it called when Jay takes me diving and shows me pictures and videos of him swimming with sharks? So is it modeling, is he showing, is he displaying, or is he just bragging? The correct answer is modeling. When Jay tells me how much joy he gets out of swimming with sharks this is called; Punishment, Modeling, Bragging or Reinforcement? Select one. The correct answer is reinforcement. Seeing and hearing how much Jay enjoys this experience, so it acts as a reinforcer for me. So what happens to the brain when we learn? Actually the brain physically changes. Hebb's law states that Neurons that fire together, wire together. And that's exactly what's happening when we're learning. When you're repeatedly engaged in a particular behavior, or your learning something. Those synaptic connections are actually growing and becoming stronger. However the opposite of that is also true, meaning that if we stop using that information, or stop engaging in those behaviors. Those connections are going to weaken, that can result in forgetting and memory loss. Here the phrase practice makes perfect is actually quite relevant, in fact research shows that it takes approximately 10,000 hours of practice to become an expert. So if you wanted to be an expert piano player, you'll have to practice for about 10,000 hours. So remember that practice, use, and rehearsal, all help us to remember the things that we've learned. So let me elaborate on, [INAUDIBLE] on what [INAUDIBLE] said about learning the brain. Neuroscientist Eric Kandel conducted round breaking research in the learning of neuro growth and it led fact to a Nobel prize. One of Kandel's big insights in setting learning in the brain came from realizing it would be best to study in an animal with the simple. Rather than complex nervous system. And one with really big nodes, ones we can actually see with a naked eye. The perfect animal for this was the sea snail, he wanted to see what happened, but the neural level when these animals learned, in the short term versus the long term. So we administered a single shot to activate short term learning. And saw that the snail learned a defensive response, it lasted for about ten minutes. But if the shock was administered four or five times the animals learned defense was long term, lasting days. But here's the discovery that lead to the Nobel Prize, Kandell was the first neuroscientist to discover how long-term learning happens at the neural level. He discovered there were new proteins in the neurons for long-term learning, but not in the short-term learning. And, these new proteins led to new neural structures, in short, to neural growth. Upon further research, Kandel uncovered how these proteins form that led to new neural growth. Let's look at this figure. In this neuron, we see a sensory neuron connected to a motor neuron and some activating neurotransmitter glutamate being released. This is the base line. Here in this figure we see what happens in short term. Learning and memory. When a mild stimulus is presented, more glutamate is released, strengthening the synaptic connection. But note, there's no new neural structures that are growing. Now in this image, we see what happens in long-term learning and memory. In response to a strong stimulus. So many stimuli are being presented. The signal, then, goes up the axon to the nucleus of the cell, turning on particular genes, or a set of genes, and then synthesize new proteins to form. These proteins then create new neural structures down here. And even more glutamate is produced and received by the motor neuron. So these new structures and strong synaptic connections stay for days and days. Leading to long term memory and learning. The moral of the story, is that long term learning changes your brain in a way that short term learning and memory do not. A finding worthy of a nobel prize. Now go out out and learn this material and change your brain for good. Classical conditioning involves our reflexive responses, such as salivation, eye blink, and startle responses. Unconditioned stimuli automatically elicit unconditioned responses. After pairing a neutral stimulus with an unconditioned stimulus, classical conditioning occurs. And the neutral stimulus becomes a conditioned stimulus that elicits a conditioned response. Remember Pavlov and his dogs. Operant conditioning was described by BF Skinner. And he said that we operate on our environment, and behaviors are selected due to their consequences. Positive and negative reinforcement produce an increase in a future frequency of a behavior. Where as positive and negative punishment produce a decrease in the future frequency of a behavior. Unconditioned reinforces like food, sex and water, and unconditioned punishers like pain are effective with no prior learning history. However, condition reinforcers like money or grades, and condition punishers, like harsh words, are effective because of a pairing process. Social learning involves learning by watching the consequences of somebody else's behavior. If we see somebody being rewarded for doing something, we be more likely to do that as well if we want to be rewarded. Also the same is true for consequences that are negative. Remember the Bobo of our experiments, these are examples of social learning. Our learning is a function of all these processes. Classical conditioning, operant conditioning, and social learning Do you remember what you had for breakfast? Do you remember the name of your first grade teacher? Do you remember the directions to that awesome Indian restaurant you ate at last year? Or, do you remember Hebb's Law that we talked about in lesson 3? Well, as I'm sure you noticed, all of these have to do with memory. That's what we're going to talk about in this lesson. How our brain has this amazing capability to remember things. We're going to start this off by talking about a famous case study about a man who's just known as H.M. for many, many years. Let's go to Susan and Greg to get more details about this study. For 50 years, the identity of HM was hidden. However, after his passing, and agreed by his family, his name was revealed, and he was Henry Molaison. Now Henry started experiencing epileptic seizures when he was a child, and in fact these grew in both duration and frequency. In fact they were debilitating. He could lose consciousness and have a seizure weekly, and sometime have minor attacks up to ten times a day. Now as you can imagine, these seizures greatly interfered with his daily living. So much so that he wasn't able to get his high school diploma until age 21. By then, unfortunately, the seizures were so bad it was difficult for him to even hold down a job. So Henry and his family were so desperate to have these epileptic seizures stop that he agreed to brain surgery. And so the doctors, in fact, took out the hippocampi, both sides bilaterally. And it worked, the seizures stopped in both severity and frequency. But at a horrible cost. Henry could no longer form new long term memories. So, for instance, he would forget what he had for breakfast that day. He could work for hours and hours with a psychologist. But if she went away for 15 or 20 minutes and came back, he would forget completely who she was. He would also be able to watch TV. Follow along with the program, but as soon as a commercial came along, he would forget what the program was and what it was about. He also, with difficulty, with concentration, could solve a crossword puzzle. But if he was interrupted at all, he would forget what he was doing. And not be able to solve it. This is a fascinating, yet heartbreaking case, but it's a great way to start this lesson because it shows us just how important our memory is to us as well as our families. Now imagine being one of H. M.'s family members and watching him struggle with these profound memory problems. Or being one of the people that he can't remember. That would be really difficult to deal with. Now even though H.M. had profound amnesia, he was well aware of his memory problems. He described it as constantly waking up from a dream he couldn't remember. Henry Molaison contributed a great deal to the study of memory, as well as the areas of the brain that are associated with forming and retrieving memories. After his death, his brain was donated to a group of researchers at the University of California San Diego. Who provided imaging of his brain tissue to map the brain. If you're interested on learning more, we provided a link to their website. It's really fascinating, you should check it out. Now HM showed us just how important our memory is for us to function as successful human beings in our everyday environment. Psychologists look at a lot of different types of memory, but let's get started with just some of the basics for now. First, I want you to try this. Look at this picture. Now, tell me what you remember seeing. List things that you remember from that picture, here. Try to fill in these spaces, don't worry if you can't remember that many things. So here's the picture again. Did you list things that were actually there? Or those things that you forgot? This is an example of iconic memory. Most students will not be able to remember a lot of what they saw, but they will be able to remember some of what they saw. That was an example of one type of memory, but there are three types of memory. The first type of memory is called Sensory memory, do you remember back in lesson three the brain lesson? And also our sensation and perception lesson, how we talked about our different sensory systems? And how they're stimulated by the things that we smell, taste, touch, feel, hear and experience. Sensory memory is made of the brief traces of the sensation left by the firing neurons in the brain. These traces don't last very long sometimes a half a second or up to two to three seconds. Nos, sensation is the first step in our ability to create long term memories, now there's two types of sensory memories let's talk about those next. So the two specific types of sensory memory are iconic memory and echoic memory. As I'm sure you're able to deduce from the names, iconic memory has to do with visual stimuli, whereas echoic memory has to do with auditory stimuli. Iconic memory is presented for only a very short amount of time. For example, the picture we just saw. Echoic memory is a sensory memory for sounds. Echoic memory is important for our ability to comprehend and understand language, because we need to keep sounds in our memory long enough to be able to make sense of them as words. So sensory memory is preserved for a very short period of time. So if sensory memory is so brief in duration, how is it that we can remember for example, someone's phone number or the directions to the gas station? Well, were able to remember directions because of our short term or sometimes called our working memory. Working memory allows for the day-to-day fluidity of our actions. So this includes things like listening to someone speak, and remembering what they're saying during the conversation. Same thing with reading and remembering what you're reading. Now, working memory can be transfered into long-term memory, but only if we practice. Otherwise these memories are lost. For example, in the case of a phone number, you may have to repeat it over and over again in your head until you dial the number, or you may forget it. For example, I want you to try to remember this number, 8759426. This number doesn't mean much. It's just a number. Just try to remember it. So how do you like in the class? I love psychology. I hope you guys are loving psychology, too. So what was that number? Write the number here. The number was 8759426. Did you remember it correctly? Here, try again. Now remember this number, 3927154. This number doesn't mean much either, it's just a number, 61257. What was the first group of numbers I said? Type your answer here. The number was 3, 9, 2, 7, 1, 5, 4. So when I asked you to remember the numbers, you probably began rehearsing them in your head. But was it harder to remember the number correctly when I started saying other numbers? Often times that little distracter, just hearing the other numbers, will interfere with your rehearsal of this number. So in order for the mateiral being this number to be retained, we need to somehow get the information into our long term memory. Now, in the previous example where I had you remember numbers, it was no coincidence that I chose seven digits. I chose seven digits because of a process called Chunking. It's much easier to remember things in chunks than it is in individual units. Here I want you to try this. Remember these letters, D, C, V, N, U, D, A, I. Now, count by threes to 30, 3, 6, 9, 12, and so on. Now what were the letters I said? Write them here. The answer is D C V N U D A I. Okay, now remember these letters, DVDCIAUN. Now, count by twos to 20. 2, 4, 6, 8 and so on. What were the letters I said? Type them here. The letters were DVD, CIA, and UN. Now this was a lot easier wasn't it? This is an example of chunking. Psychologists use the general rule of 7 plus or minus 2 when referring to our ability to chunk information into units. Meaning 7 digits or 9 digits, that would be plus 2, or 5 digits, minus 2. So chunking is one way to remember things. But how do we get our short term memory to allow us to remember things such as phone numbers or directions to the mall? Or even the vocabulary words from this lesson? One theory by psychologist Alan Baddeley suggests that there are three processes involved in working memory. The first is attending to the stimulus. That is, we're aware, or mindful of it. The second part of the process is storing information about the stimulus. And the third part is actually rehearsing what is stored. Let's go to Susan for a little more detail about this. Thanks Lauren. As we cans see, we are constantly being bombarded with stimuli throughout our day. Let's look at a typical mundane example of getting on a train and going up to campus. All the different sights, sounds, smells and even tactile stimuli. Thousands and thousands of sensations. How do we know what to pay attention to? In Bentley's model, he says we have what's called a central executive. And a central executive helps us to focus on a particular stimulus, and different aspects of that stimulus. So the central executive allows us to pay attention. Now there are three storage systems that aid in this process. And we're going to head back to Lauren to see what those are. Thanks, Susan. The first focus here is a Visuospatial sketchpad. This is responsible for visual and spatial information. Try this close your eyes. Are they closed? Okay, now tell me how many rows of dots there were on the screen. Okay, open your eyes. Were you right? So for this example, the sketch pad provides storage for information that's visual. Such as images of photos. In this example, you're using your visual spacial sketch pad. When you were trying to remember how many rows of dots there were on the screen. The second part of the storage system is the episodic buffer. This is related to the storage of inforamation that will become long term memories of specific events. And finally, We have the Phonological loop. As the name implies, it's our memory for sound or linguistic information. Now if we want the information that we've learned to last, and become a long term memory, we have to rehearse it. And this is called Rehearsal. As the name implies, rehearsal is a process of practicing or reciting the information to ourselves. Now, go back to the example of the letters I wanted you to remember, your Visuospatial sketchpad allows you to see the numbers in your head. Your phonological loop allows you to hear the numbers, and you'll need to rehears the letters if you want them for later use. Here, try to remember this. Milk, eggs, cheese, tomatoes, flour, soda, ice cream, vitamins and bread. Take a second. So again, the three storage stages are visual spacial sketchpad, episodic buffer and phonological loop. What was on the grocery list? Type in as many items as you can remember in these nine boxes. The nine items were milk, eggs, cheese, tomatoes, flour, soda, ice cream, vitamins and bread. How'd you do? So how'd you do remembering that grocery list? Well, if you're like many people, you might have remembered the very beginning or perhaps the very end of the list. This is not uncommon and psychologists actually have a term for why we tend to remember things at the beginning and things at the end, but perhaps not the middle of a list. This is called Serial Position Effect. This is our tendency to have better recall for the things that are at the beginning of a list or at the end of a list, because of their particular position on the list. The ability to remember things at the beginning of a list, is called primacy effect. On the other hand, the ability to recall items at the end of a list, is called recency effect. So, you may think, why is it important whether I remember things at the beginning of my list, or at the end of my list. Well just be aware of the serial positioning effect may have particular value. One thing Susan always tells her students is that serial positioning effect can be a strategy for studying. It's always a good idea to make flash cards. Put a term you're trying to remember on one side of the flash card. And a definition or an example on the other side of the flash card. There's two ways to study. One is to begin by looking at the term you're trying to remember the definition or the example for. The other is to flip it around and read the definition and the example and try to remember the term. Now that you know about serial position effect. What do you think you should do with your flashcards? That is should you study them in the same order? Or should you mix them up? Select one. Well, according to serial position effect, it would be best if you shuffled your cards and mixed them up. That way, you don't have the same cards at the beginning of your list and the same cards at the end of your list. Because you're more likely to forget the items that are in the middle. Try this next time you're studying for a test. So far in this lesson, we've discussed sensory memory and working memory. Remember that our sensory memory is very short lasting, and our working memory is our day-to-day fluidity of our actions. But what about those questions we asked in the beginning of the lesson? For example, what was the name of your first grade teacher? Well, the ability for you to remember the name of your first grade teacher, in my case was Ms. Peacock, is because of our long-term memory. So let's go to Susan and discuss some particular types of long term memory. Do you remember what you were wearing the day you got your driver's license? Do you remember the first place you drove to or who was in the car with you? Do you remember the price of gas or was it a warm day, a cold day, sunny, rainy? All of these things that you can remember are about the day you got your driver's license constitute what we call episodic memory. Now, episodic memory is memory for autobiograhical events. Here, we're looking at information remember that is both temporal as well as contextual. Meaning when and where the even occurred. Another type of memory that was related to but different from episodic memories are semantic memories. Semantic are memories about general fact or general knowledge. So, for example, an episodic memory might be remembering your sixteenth birthday party. The people who were there and your favorite song that was playing on the radio. Semantic memories can be things such as general knowledge, like things you've learned in school. Such as E equals MC squared. But we're also going to talk about a different type of memory and that's declarative memory. And we're going to go back to Lauren for that. Declarative memory is a broad term which can include both episodic and semantic memory. An easy way to remember declarative memory, is that you declare or communicate your memory to another. For example, in 1492 Columbus sailed the ocean blue. That is a declarative tidbit that some of you may have learned in school. Two other distinctions in the types of memory are explicit memory and implicit memory. Some psychologists refer to declarative memory as a type of explicit memory. Again, this is our ability to consciously recall facts and events. So we would say in some cases, that semantic and episodic memories are types of explicit memory. We're able to describe and recall events and things that we've learned in the past. Now let's go take a closer look at implicit memory. So Implicit memory is also called non-declarative memory because we can not directly recall this type of memory. Implicit memory is a kind of memory that's made up of knowledge based on previous experiences such as skills that we preform automatically once you have mastered them. Implicit memory resides outside of our conscience awareness. So for implicit memory, we know how to do something, for example ride a bike, but it's difficult to describe how we can preform the skills we know how to do so well. For example, I know how to scuba dive, and I love to dive, but it's difficult for me to describe how you swim through the water. Make sure you're weighted right, have to inflate or deflate your bcd, it's something you have to experience for yourself. On the other hand, Susan knows how to knit and she can knit really pretty scarves, but if you ask her how to explain it or give you step by step instructions like I have, it's hard for her to do that. So for the example of Susan and knowing how to knit, she needs to know where her fingers belong, where the needles go and how to move the yarn around. This is an example of procedural memory. So procedural memory refers to the knowledge we hold for almost any behavior or physical skill we've learned. Again this could be things like driving a manual transmission car, knitting, scuba diving, playing hockey or any sport. Priming is another type of Implicit memory. Priming occurs when recall is improved by prior exposure to the same or similar stimuli. In fact memory is better for information that relates to prior knowledge. Here, have a couple questions for you. First, if you haven't ridden a bike in years, but when you get on it you remember exactly how to ride it, what types of memory are activated? But then you remember the first time you ever rode a bike. What type of memory is activated here? Finally, little random but, where are the Great Pyramids? What type of memory is activated when you recall this? Take your time, but for the question, if you have not ridden a bike in years. But when you get on one, you remember exactly how to ride it, what types of memory are activated? Type in two answers. And then for the next question, you remember the first time you ever rode a bike. What type of memory is this? Just choose one type of memory. And finally, where are the Great Pyramids? What type of memory is activated here? Again, choose one. Here are four options to type in the boxes. Episodic, implicit, declarative, and procedural. The types of memory that are activated when you remember how to ride a bike even if you haven't ridden one for years are implicit and procedural. When you reminisce about the first time you've ever rode a bike, that's an episodic memory. And finally when I asked where the Great Pyramids when you respond this is a declarative memory. So we've discussed interim memory, working memory and long-term memory, such as episodic or semantic memory. But how do we get information to our long-term memory? Well, there are four steps to long-term memory formation. There's encoding, consolidation, storage and retrieval. Let's first start by looking at encoding. So the first out of the four steps of turning information into long-term memory, as we said, is encoding. This means that we attend to new information, we take it in, and then we process the new information. So, our brain focuses on something new, takes it in, and we process that information. That is us encoding new information. Now the key here is attend. It's important to remember that we have to pay attention. Attention is what drives the process of encoding. That is we have to pay attention to and be aware of the information that we are trying to remember. Now, there are two types of encoding. One type of encoding is termed automatic processing. As the name implies, it refers to encoding information that occurs with little effort or conscious attention to the task. Remember, at the beginning of the lesson, when we asked if you remembered what you had for breakfast. This is an example of the kind of automatic processing we're talking about. So although you may have encoded what you had for breakfast this morning, by the evening you may have forgotten it. Because it took little effort or conscious attention to the task the second type of encoding for long term memory is termed, effortful processing. Effortful processing happens when we carefully pay attention to information and try to make a conscious effort to remember the information. For example, the type of symantic memories we have, such as remembering the names of the presidents of the United States. Or trying to remember the names of all the continents. These involve our ability to consciously pay attention to information and to put an effort into retaining this information. While you take notes for this class. Or watch our videos, you're engaging in effortful processing because you're trying to retain the information that you've learned. At least I hope so. So, how do we go about engaging in effortful processing? Psychologists theorize levels of processing relate to our ability to more deeply encode information so that our recall improves. Let's go into a little more detail about this. The connection between encoding and remembering at its core is levles of processing. For this concept, psychologist say the more deeply we encode information the better we are able to recall it. Now, what do we mean by deeply? Psychologist have been able to identify three different levels of processing. Before I get started in describing this, I want you to remember these three words, tablet, bell, amethyst. Okay, let's get started. The first is structural, the second is phoentic, and the third is semantic. So for the level of processing structural would be shallow. Then we'd go down to semantic, which would be deep. And remember, the more deeply encoded the information, the better we recall it. So, let's look at probability of recall. The shallow level of processing would give us a low probability of recalling the information. And a deep level of processing would give us a high probability of recall. Let's say for example I wanted you to remember the word Amethyst. At the structural level, I may ask you to describe whether the word has capital letters or lowercase letters. At the phonetic level, I may ask you to think of words that rhyme with amethyst. And finally, at the semantic level I may ask you to describe what an amethyst is. It's purple, it's in fact a stone, and it's even the birthstone for the month of February. Here, a psychologist would say, if you're able to engage in all three levels of processing, semantic, phonetic, and structural, we would have a better ability to recall the information at a later time. What word did I use as an example of levels of processing? Type your response here. Then before moving on, I want you to try this. Out of the following list, what were the three words I wanted you to remember? Crystal, pin, blue, amethyst, clock, bell, dog, tablet, soda. Check the three I wanted you to remember. The word I used in the example of levels of processing was amethyst. The 3 words I wanted you to remember were amethyst, bell and tablet. Did you notice that it was easy to recognize the words that were previously encountered, especially amethyst since we went over it before? Another trick to aiding our ability to recall previously learned information, is by using a mnemonic device. A mnemonic device is a method to help us remember information. For example, we may come up with a rhyme to remember something or perhaps an acronym. So, if we have to remember the grocery list that we made earlier in the lesson, this one. We can circle the first letter of each of the items, and come up with an acronym. We gave you a pneumonic device in lesson 2, when we where describing how to remember the difference between an independent and a dependent variable. We told you to remember that the independent variable starts with an I, and investigator starts with an I. So it's the investigator that manipulates the independent variable. That was a mnemonic device. Now take a few minutes and try to come up with a mnemonic device for our grocery list. Type your mnemonic device here. And I also want you to share it on the forums with your peers and see who comes up with the most creative or the best one. You can rearrange the letters if you'd like, they don't have to be in this order. There's no right or wrong answers here, but you're going to want to remember this. Now we were discussing encoding, which is the first step in our ability to move information from our short term to our long term memory. Now the second stage in long term memory formation is consolidation. And consolidation is the process of establishing, stabilizing or solidifying a memory. If you'll recall from our lesson on consciousness, you'll remember that sleep is essential for our ability to consolidate our memories. In fact, sleep deprivation can negatively affect our ability to remember. So as we stressed in the consciousness lesson, it's important that we get the required amount of sleep, so that we can consolidate our memories. Now let's talk about stage three of forming long term memories, which is storage. Now, as the name implies, storage is the retention of memory over time. You're storing the information. Psychologists have suggested that there are three ways that we store memories. The first that we use is hierarchies. With hierarchies, we're organizing related pieces of information from the most specific feature they have in common to the most general. Another distinct way we can remember information is through Schemas. We can define Schemas as a mental framework that develops from our experiences with particular people, objects or events. In other words you can think of schemas as framework for representing some aspects of the world. That tells us how people, objects or events are most likely to look like or act like. Schemas influence our attention, and the absorption of new knowledge. In fact, we're more likely to notice things that fit into our schema once we have a schema formed. So they help us to understand and organize experiences. They can also aid in our memory and recall. However, it's important to note that schemas have a tendency to remain unchanged. Even if we're presented with new information that contradicts our schema. Let's say you have a schema of a college professor, that is, you have a conceptual idea of what a professor looks like. Perhaps if they're a man or a woman, how old they are. How tall they are or how they dress. So, it may be that someone's schema for a professor is that they're old. They wear sports jackets with patches in the elbows, they have glasses, they carry a briefcase, they're male and other identifying features of a professor. So, if that's a person's schema for a professor, research shows that if he or she is presented with new information that is contradictory of that schema. For example, if being a young woman who dresses rather casually, carrying a back pack rather than a brief case and so on. The person with the developed schema will be less likely to remember the female professor. So schemas can aid in our ability to remember, but they also bias our memory and our perception. Finally, the third way in which we're able to store information is through what psychologists call an Associative Network. And this is a chain of associations between related concepts. From pet, it could go to dog or cat, and from dog and cat, look at how much it branches off. This is just a quick demonstration. I could branch this a lot further. So, from pet, we could go to dog and cat and from dog and cat, we could branch off so much more. They're both fuzzy, furry, four-legged animals. I had a dog named Max. My whole family loved Max. He was a golden retriever. And my friend Noel loved cats. And then that makes me think of college, and then my friends, and how I majored in psychology. This is a just a really short, quick example of how much this could branch off. I could double or triple this if I had time, but don't worry I won't make you guys sit through that. Now let's recap a bit. First we talked about encoding, which talked about automatic processing and effortful processing. And we also talked about levels of processing. And here, we discussed structural, phonetic, and semantic levels of processing. We also talked about common ways to encode information deeply using a mnemonic device. Next we talk about consolidation, where we know that sleep is important. Then we moved on to storage and talked about three ways that we can store information. Using hierarchies, schemas, and associative network. Now finally we have retrieval, which is simply recovery of information stored in memory. So, let's say for example when your studying for this lesson you make an outline using headings that are similar to chapters in a book. So first would be memory, and probably types of memory like short term and long term. And then underneath each of these you'd get more specific. And then you would add things on this list that we're going to cover later in the lesson. The biological side of memory or forgetting. And under each sub category you get more and more specific. This is an example of what? An associative network? A schema? A hierarchy? Or a mnemonic device? Select one. The correct answer is hierarchy. Let's say your favorite childhood pet was a beautiful Golden Retriever like this. Max.You developed a very positive view of Golden Retrievers because of Max. So every Golden Retriever you have met, you think is as wonderful as Max was. This is an example of what? Is it a hierarchy? An associative network? Mnemonic device? Or a schema? Select one. The correct answer is, this is a schema. Now that we know how we're able to store information, it's time to turn to the next crucial part in the study of memory. And that's our ability to retrieve the information that we've stored. So retrieval is our ability to recall information that's previously been stored in our memories. Remember we talked about two different types of memory, Explicit and Implicit. And with Implicit memory we can recall something without consciously trying to do so. I like to tell my students an example of me trying to learn how to knit. I looked at books and tried and tried to follow their examples to no avail. So I ended up taking a lesson, and I had a teacher who showed me how to hold the knitting needles. How to hold the yarn, and more importantly, how to wrap it around such that I can make a knitted stitch. So I practiced and practiced my knitting and I made several scarves. And then summer came and I put my knitting away. Now as Christmas got closer, I thought it'd be really nice if I could knit each of my nieces a scarf. And then I realized, I'd forgotten all the rules my teacher taught me. But I did remember what I know about memory. And so I thought, just maybe, if I pick up those knitting needles, my hands will remember what to do. And that's exactly what happened. I picked up my needles and I started knitting. So this is a good example of implicit memory, and more importantly, procedural memory. Thanks for that example Susan. Now it's explicit memory that really requires us to have ability to retrieve information. For example, you're going to need to retrieve what you've learned from this lesson to pass the problem set to the exam. However, there's often times that we don't encode the information properly. Or we don't store it properly so it can't be retrieved. And as we're going to see, sometimes people will retrieve information that's incorrect. This is termed False Memories. Now, false memories are memories of events that never actually happened. Elizabeth Loftus is a pioneer in the research on false memories. One study she did was had participants listen to a fictitious story of being lost in a shopping mall. A family member of the participant would describe this event to them, and 25% of the participants remembered being lost in a shopping mall. Even though that never actually happened. So what does this tell us about memory? It tells us that memories aren't always accurate and, in fact, people can implant false memories. Now let's go to Greg to talk more about this. So, in fact, it's actually quite easy to illicit false memories in the laboratory. This is often done with word list. So, people are presented a list of words that they have to recall later on. And often, they remember words that were not on the original list, but were associated similar to words that were on the list. So in fact they've created a false memory, a memory of a word that wasn't there. So then the question is, why is this important, who should care? So one reason it's so important to demonstrate the ease of creating false memories in the laboratory is that it has real world ramifications, especially in court cases. Occasionally false memories lead to false accusations. In one case, a woman who was raped accused a psychologist by the name of Donald Thompson of the rape. As it turns out she'd been watching t.v. Right before her attack and on TV she was watching Donald Thompson, who in fact was talking about, of all things false memories. Now in her mind the association between the attack and Donald Thompson's face was made. So she made this accusation. Now as it turns out Donald Thompson, of course, had a great alibi. He could prove beyond a shadow of the doubt that he was on TV at the time and was not there in committing a crime. Unfortuneately, not everyone who is falsely accused has such a alibi. Occassionally, false memories lead to false accusations and convictions. What do you think police and law enforcement officers can do to try to limit this from happening? Type your response here. Take your time and think it out. Rather than describing them all in this one little box, there are a lot of things that can be done. So let's look further into this. Police and law enforcement officers are aware that our memories are malleable. And they've developed techniques when investigating crimes or accidents to help diminish the possibility of false memories. One thing they do is to separate witnesses immediately so they cannot talk to each other. This way, what one person remembers from an accident is not contaminated by what another person remembers from an accident. Another thing they can do is to be careful with the types of words they use to ask questions. For example, Elizabeth Loftus examined how the types of words that people use to ask questions can influence our memory of an event. For example, in one study participants were assigned to different groups. Participants saw slides of pictures of cars that collided and they were asked to estimate how fast the vehicles were going, but they were asked in different ways. There were five conditions. The participants were asked to describe the car accident as if they were an eye witness. Participants were asked how fast a car was going when they hit each other, smashed each other, bumped each other, collided with each other, or contacted each other. Depending on which group they were in, they heard a different ending of the sentence. A week after this, participants were asked if they saw any broken glass in the pictures on the slides. Participants in the smashed condition reported the highest speeds. After that came collided, then bumped, then hit, then contacted. And when they were asked about the glass, participants in the smashed condition were more likely to say yes they saw glass in the pictures. So, here we see the type of question or type of word that is used to describe the accident. Influences the persons memory of the event and may actually modify the persons memory. Again, this experiment demonstrates how easily our memories can be changed. Our memories can be easily distorted by the type of question, and information that comes after an event. This can cause inaccurate recall or reconstructive memory. In addition to studying false memory, psychologists also study forgetting and memory loss. Now, forgetting and memory loss are suggestive and reconstructive processes. Sometimes it's easy to think of our memory as an objective recorder. When, in fact, we see that our memories are affected by how we distort, select, or even bias memory of events. So forgetting is the weakening of memories over time and I'm going to share a personal example of that with you next. When we think about forgetting, we think about things we may have learned in school, such as definitions, equations or formulas. But we can also forget personal episodic memories. For example, my Dad died when I was only 14 years old. And for sometime after that I had lots of memories of everyday activities, things such as eating dinner, going for ice cream or even watching TV. However, one day when I was about 16 years old I realized that I had forgotten what my dad sounded like. Now in those days we didn't have video cameras or phones with cameras on them so I had no film of my dad talking. When I remember this, I was so angry and upset with myself. I was beside myself. I thought how could you forget what your own father sounds like? What kind of a daughter am I if I can't even remember what my dad sounded like? Now I have since learned not to be so hard on myself for forgetting those things, because I hadn't been exposed to it in such a long time. However, I do try to actively recall and remember more memories so I don't lose those. Now as an example of just how subjective memory can be. My brother and a friend of ours recently got together, who we hadn't seen in 20 years. And we were talking about this time that we all went down to this stream and we caught a carp. We brought it back to my mom. Each of us had a different memory of what our mom said and did when she saw that fish. So we can see just how individual and subjective our memories can be. Perhaps you can talk to your parents or siblings, and see if you can come up with a memory, and whether or not you all agree on that's what really happened. So, how do we forget? One reason we forget things is because of interference. Interference is a disruption of memory because of new information that competes with information we are trying to recall. Now, there are two types of interference. One is called retroactive interference. With retroactive interference new experiences or information cause people to forget what they've previously learned or experienced. The second type of interference is proactive interference. Proactive interference occurs when previously learned information interferes with the learning of new information. Let's look at an example of an retroactive interference. First is a learning task. Study psychology. Next, is a learning task, study sociology. For retroactive interference, we would have memory loss for the first task, studying psychology. An example of proactive interference would be, first, studying psychology, then learning sociology. With this, we would have memory loss for studying sociology because it came second. Can you think of any other reason why people might not remember things? Here's a hint, HM or Phineas Gage. Type your answer here. Well, you might have guessed brain injury, but disease can also cause memory loss. For example, Alzheimer's. People forget things because of interference. They can also forget things because of brain injury of disease. Forgetting things because of brain injury or disease is what we call amnesia. Now, there's two types of amnesia that psychologists study. The first is anterior grade amnesia. Someone with an anterior grade amnesia can't remember anything after the onset of a disease, or a brain injury. Do you remember HN that we talked about earlier in the lesson? He had anterior grade amnesia. That was a perfect example of that. Now, the second type of amnesia is retrograde amnesia. Someone with retrograde amnesia can't remember anything before a brain injury, or before the onset of a disease. Let's go to Greg to talk about a personal experience with both of these types of amnesia. Yes Lauren, some of you may remember the case of my brother David. He was the one who was hit by a car riding his bike home back from work. And he was in a coma for couple of weeks, and then vegetative for a few months. And he suffered both kinds of amnesia, retrograde and anterior grade. So for instance in retrograde, he would forget about the 9 months prior to the accident, so we asked him, for instance, who his roommates were, who he lived with during that period. He could not tell us. Likewise, interiograde amnesia, he would forget new events, after the accident. So, for instance, he meet somebody and then the next day. Meet him again, he's completely forgotten ever having met them. So he suffered both retrograde and anterograde amnesia. Thank you for that Greg. Now you've most likely heard of another type of memory loss. Which is a result of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease is a devastating disease. Again for both people with Alzheimer's and their loved ones. Alzheimer's can effect people over the age of 60. It's a very rare to have an early onset Alzheimer's disease. And Alzheimer's disease results in progressive memory loss, and eventually complete memory loss. The final type of memory loss that we're going to discuss is termed absentmindedness. This is a form of forgetting that results from inattention. Divided attention can lead to absentmindedness. So, if you're watching TV and talking to a friend at the same time, that's going to lead to poor encoding of either the content on the television show or the conversation you're having with your friend. We're much less likely to remember things. If we're multitasking. Now, again, it's really important to remember here that the more we pay attention to what we're doing, the more likely we are to encode the information correctly and retrieve it when necessary. So all those teachers that told you you needed to pay attention, they weren't lying. So far in this lesson, we've talked about different types of memory as well as different ways of forgetting and memory loss. But, in this next section, we're going to switch gears and we're going to talk about the role the brain plays in remembering and forgetting. So, the biological basis of memory. We know that our long-term memory start with our sensations. And those are processed and output with our cortical sensory association areas, such as our visual association or auditory association areas, and that different brain regions are involved in different types of memory systems. Now there are three distinct memory systems. Each involve different things to remember. First, we learn to do things such as implicit procedures. This is the procedural memory. The output for this type of memory mainly goes to the Cerebellum and Striatum. When we experience emotional events. The output mainly goes to the amygdala. When we consciously and explicitly remember a personal event, or if we're trying to recall an answer, for say an essay exam. The output goes to the hippocampus, which is just the first part of the process. Then, these long-term memories get sent to various parts of the cortex for long-term storage. So remember, elicit and procedural memory is involved in the cerebellum and striatum. The Amygdala is involved in emotional memories, and the Hippocampus is important for explicit and declarative type memories. Now I want you to try this, match the following brain structures to the type of memory. Again, we have the cerebellum, striatum, amygdala, and hippocampus. And here are the type of memories, so one type of memory would be your first heartbreak. What part of the brain would be involved in this type of memory. If I asked you what happened during World War II what part of your brain would you use to recall this information? If you had to remember how to ride a bike, what part of the brain would you use? Type the corresponding letter to the type of memory that this brain structure is involved in. Your first heart break would be an emotional type of memory. So that one involved your amygdala. The answer is B. What happened during World War Two, you're trying to explicitly and consciously remember this. This one involved your hippocampus, so C. And riding a bike is an implicit, procedural type of memory. So that involves your cerebellum and striatum. We begin this lesson by talking about Henry Molaison. One thing we didn't discuss about HM was the task they had him engage in. In this task, neuropsychologist, Brenda Milner, who was working with HM, had him perform a mirror tracing task like this one. HM was to track within two lines of the star, while viewing it only through a mirror. Which was the reverse image. So, if his hand moved one way, the hand in the mirror moved the other. They asked HN to perform this task up to ten times each day for three days. They counted the errors each time he went outside of the lines. What's interesting is that HM's drawings improved even though he couldn't recall having done this task before. Now you're looking at the times that I tried it, and I'll be honest, this task was really hard to do. So what does this tell us about the brain? HM didn't remember engaging in this task, but he visibly improved. Well, it turns out that he couldn't form new explicit long-term memories due to damage to his hippocampus and surrounding areas, but he could learn new skills. As was demonstrated by his performance on this task. Now we're going to move on to talk about the sensory cortex next. But before we do, lets quickly look at what we know about the short term and long term memory systems in regards to the brain. Remember that our sensory memories are processed in various cortices in our brain. Our short-term memory is processed in the hippocampus and frontal lobes. And finally, our long-term memory is stored in different parts of the cortex and sub-cortex and these memories are retrieved with help from areas associated with the prefrontal cortex. Now remember that the prefrontal cortex. is the foremost region of the frontal lobes and it plays a very important role in attention, appropriate social behavior, working memory, and impulse control. Those are really importnat to remember. Now, remember from the sense Olympics, we discussed the basic process involved in sensation and perception. And we see that our sensory memory system is quite clear cut. Remember that our sensory neurons take information from external stimuli and our sensory organs to different parts of the brain. Recall that sensation travels to the thalamus, which then relays a sensor information to the cerebral cortex where it gets further processed. Three out of our five sensory systems have a specific cortex for processing sensory stimuli. The first of the three sensory systems with a specific sensory cortex is the visual cortex, which is located in the occipital lobes. The second is the auditory cortex, which is located in the temporal lobes. And the third is the somatosensory cortex, which is responsible for touch and is located in the parietal lobes. Our sense of smell and taste don't have their own processing region. However, it's interesting to note that smell can bring forth very strong and immediate memory. Have you, for example, noticed that particular smells can bring back a memory for you? I can think of a few myself. For example, the smell of homemade pizza reminds me of my grandmother. The smell of the beach reminds me of the summers my family and I spent on the beach. Or, for example, maybe the smell of a perfume or cologne reminds you of an ex-lover you once had. That's just an example of how smells can evoke powerful memories. Stop and think for a minute if you recall any particular smells that bring back a memory to you. So, now let's look at the brain and what happens when we're engaging in short term or working memory. Here we see that the prefrontal cortex focuses attention on a sensory stimuli, and will hold the information long enough for us to solve the problem at hand. Then it will transfer the information to the hippocampus for memory consolidation. We also know that the encoding stage of memory is consolidated through rehearsal and repetition. So, if we repeatedly fire the neural impulses that are necessary to convert a short term memory to a long term memory, this will occur in the hippocampus. Now, the main reason Henry Molaison or HM, could no longer form long term memories is because a large part of his hippocampus was removed. But as I said, we know that the hippocampus isn't the only thing that's important for working memory. We also need our prefrontal cortex, which is responsible for our ability to maintain attention and focus. So, when you're reading, having a conversation or looking at a map. When trying to figure out directions, it's our prefrontal cortex that allows us to keep this information available. Do you remember earlier in the lesson when we discussed the visuospatial sketchpad in phonological loop? Well, we see that in each of these areas is where brain activity occurs during each of these processes. So, we know that auditory input is processed and rehearsed in the phonological loop from the prefrontal cortex. To the language comprehension center, which is located to the back and left part of the parietal lobes. We call this language comprehension center, the Wernicke's region, after the person who discovered it. You may remember this when we talked about it in lesson three. As for visual information in the visuo spatial sketchpad, it goes from the prefrontal cortex to the temporal lobes for spatial information. And then to the occipital lobe for visual information. Now, we know that our explicit memory storage are stored in the respective cortex in the area that it was originally processed. Now, other types of memories such as implicit memories are stored in structures of the subcortex, specifically the striatum, amygdala and cerebellum. Now, I'm sure you've noticed many different areas of the brain are involved in memory. When it comes to long term memory explicit and implicit memories are stored in different areas. Explicit memories are taken in from the prefrontal cortex and processed in the hippocampus. Then they're returned to the area where the sensory information was originally processed. [INAUDIBLE]. So, for example, your explicit visual memory would be stored in the occipital lobe, whereas, for example, your explicit memory about the way something felt would be stored in this sensory cortex. And the auditory memories would be stored in the auditory cortex. Implicit memories are processed and stored in their cortexes. As well as the straitum, amygdala, and cerebellum. So far in this lesson we've discussed sensory memory, short-term or working memory, and long-term memory. We've also discussed the differing areas of the brain that are associated with different types of memory such as implicit or explicit memory. One thing we haven't touched on yet is how emotions can play a role in remembering a particular life event. Now think back to your own life and an emotional situation that you remember. Whether graduating from high school or college, or your first date, or even the funeral of a loved one. Why is it that we can remember details of these events, but we can't remember what we wore to the gym two days ago. Well as it turns out, emotions play a key role in remembering and retrieving information. Let's go take a closer look at this. Emotions can help us in the process of our ability to remember through both genetic processes, as well as biochemical processes. In fact, when we experience an emotional event, it can actually cause a change in our genetics. Such that they build proteins and strengthen synaptic connections between neurons. We discuss this in detail in Lesson 3. So proteins stimulate the formation of new synapses and even new neurons. This results in our ability to make memories last for longer periods of time. On the biochemical side, the neurotransmitter, norepinephirine is important for the formation of memories. Because it strengthens the synaptic connection between neurons. Remember that neuroplasticity is necessary for making the connection between synapses stronger, and thus make an event more memorable. One other variable that affects our memory is sleep. Sleep can help us consolidate our memories. Remember, however, from information that we previously discussed in this lesson, that our memories are not always perfectly correct. We know that emotions can actually distort memories. In fact, it appears that emotional memories tend to be less accurate in details than nonemotional memories. The last area we're going to discuss in regards to memory, is what's known as Long-term Potentiation. Long-term Potentiation is the strengthening of a synaptic connection that happens when the synapse of one neuron repeatedly fires and excites. Excites another neuron. Much of the work on the study on long-term potentiation came from Hebb. Now, you should recall Hebb's law from our lesson on the brain. Neurons that fire together, wire together. Another researcher, Kandel, discovered that even as sea slug was able to create a long-term memory. This was found by how the sea slug reacted to a shock. So, what he did was administered a shock to the tail of the sea slug, and the sea slug had a defensive response. When he did this only one time, the defensive posture lasted about ten minutes. However, if you did this four to five times in close succession, the sea slug had the same defensive response that lasted for days after the shocks. Which shows the sea slug created a long term memory, since its response lasted for days. Kandel quoted that conversion from short to long term memory storage requires spaced repetition. This goes along with the idea that practice makes perfect, even in snails. So, from research such as this, we can see again the importance of neurons firing together and wiring together, and the result that changes in our brain and our behavior. Other research by Kandel showed how particular genes getting turned on in the nucleus of a cell can signal neural structures to grow which is neurogenesis. But this only happens during long term memory not during short term memory. Amazingly what this means is that every time we learn something that's long term it's because our brain has actually changed. So, if you remember what we're talking about right now in this lesson, next week, that means that your brain has officially formed new neural connections which are the basis for your memory of this lesson. So you can officially say that your udacity psychology class physically changed your brain. Now I want to ask you one final question before I send you to Susan for the final recap. What was on our grocery list? Try to remember as many as you can and type them here. Memory is sometimes taken for granted. But it's importance cannot be overstated. Memory allows us to interact successfully in our world. Through case studies such as HM, we can gain a better understanding of the areas of the brain involved in memory. We have three types of memory. Sensory memory, which includes iconic and echoic memory, short-term or working memory and long-term memory. Sensory memory is very short in duration. Working memory allows for the day to day fluidity of our actions, and long-term memory is comprised of several types of memory. Long-term memory includes declarative memory, which consists of episodic memory or memory for personal events. And semantic memory which is memory for facts. In addition, we also have explicit and implicit memories. The four steps in long term memory formation are encoding, consolidation, storage and retrevial. We can use schemas, associative networks, and mnemonic devices in aiding our memory efforts. Over time, we may experience forgetting and memory loss. In addition, illness and injury can also impair our memory. This can result from things such as Alzheimer's disease or dementia and accidents that may result in amnesia. Some important areas of the brain involved in memory include the cerebellum and striatum, the hippocampus and the amygdala. Furthermore, the prefrontal cortex. Auditory cortex, visual cortex, and somatosensory cortex all play a role in memory. [FOREIGN] [FOREIGN] [FOREIGN] I think, therefore I am, now, how many of these languages did you understand or recognize? So what is language? Well, words are just arbitrary sounds put together. Which is clear when you listen to languages that you don't know. However, when it's a language that you do know, these sounds have deep and immediate meaning. Language expresses ideas, thoughts, and intentions. Language and thought go really well together. However, they're not the exact same thing. We can express thoughts without language sometimes. For example, if we use things like imagery, art, music, or even dance. Have you ever thought about how language can effect our thoughts or perceptions? If you're like many of us, we often take language for granted. For example, have you ever been in a situation where everybody else around you was speaking a different language and you didn't understand? Or perhaps you've been sick and lost your voice. You can appreciate how difficult it is to communicate. However, we do have other ways to communicate. Such as through gestures, writing or typing, or even american sign language. I'd like to you to take a moment and think about what it would feel like, if you were in a situation where everybody else was speaking a different language that you didn't understand. Chances are you will feel isolated. When we heard all of those different languages what we were really hearing was a communication system that was specific to Homo Sapiens, which is human language. Human language is open and symbolic. It has rules of grammar that allows user to express abstract and distant ideas. By open, we mean that the system is dynamic, and it's free to change. In fact, we see changes in language across time when words take on new meanings. Or new slang words appear. So in language, we have words which are put together into specific rules of syntax and grammar. So, grammar, then, is the entire set of rules for combining symbols and sounds to speak and write a particular language. So, each language has its own distinct sounds for saying things. Just as we saw in the beginning of the lesson, when many of our Udacity friends said a version of, I think, therefore I am. So from here, we have the question, how did we get to human language? We can ask this in two ways, do we mean me as the individual, or do we mean us, as in our species? Let's start by looking at us, our species. We're really fortunate to have our language abilities. Because of language, humans are able to think and discuss abstract ideas. This is different from other animals who communicate with each other. But they can only do so by signaling other members of their species about immediate situations, such as being hungry, hurt, or ready to reproduce. Such as using mating dances or mating songs from birds. As we saw in lesson three, humans have evolved and our brains grown larger, and as a result, we've been able to develop language. Our ancestors, homo neanderthalensis, had a very primitive language, which we call a protolanguage. So protolanguage is a rudimentary language, also known as pre-language, and it was used by earlier species of homo. Now as we evolved our brain size increased. So did our ability to develop and use language. Both psychologists and anthropologists have suggested, that the complexity of the brain and our ability to use language coevolved, which makes sense. With this increase in brain size We would be able to think and communicate more complex and abstract ideas. Furthermore, as the size of social groups increased, so did our need to be able to communicate effectively with others. Our ability to communicate allowed us to form communities. To hunt together, protect each other, and even develop the ability to cultivate land. Now let's go back to the individual. So just how is it that we're able to develop language? We see that children have the ability to understand words before they develop the ability to produce words. Do you remember from lesson three that the Wernicke's area is in the left hemisphere of the brain? And this is where language comprehension occurs. In the Broca's area, which is also in the left hemisphere of the brain, is associated with language production. Now, because infants can understand language before they can produce it, this suggests that the Wernicke's area may develop earlier than the Broca's area. So I want you take this purely hypothetical question. What would happen if the Broca's area developed in infants before the Wernicke's area? Type your answer here. Well, because this is a hypothetical question, we don't know for sure; but, do you think it could be like the type of aphasia we discussed in lesson three, that results in the ability to speak, but not in any coherent way? It's something to think about. Let's talk about the specific stages of language development. The first stage is cooing. Cooing are the first sounds that human babies make, other than crying. And this happens within the first six months of an infant's life. Cooing is almost exclusively vowels. So things like ooh, or e, for example. It's interesting to note that cooing is universal for all babies. Meaning babies all across the world coo in almost the exact same way. This includes babies who can hear, as well as babies who are deaf. The next stage is babbling, babbling occurs after about five or six months of an infant's life. This is when infants start to experience with different sounds call phoneme. Phonemes consist of both vowels and consonants. An interesting thing to note here is that through repeated exposure to their native language, infants start to prune out sounds that aren't native to their language. They actually lose the ability to say and perceive non-native language sounds. That's why it can be so difficult to learn a new language. And after babbling is one word utterances. This is when babies say things like da-da or mama or the famous no. Next would be the two word utterances. This happens at around 18 months. But I'm going to send you to Greg who has a good example of this. So when my son, Evan, was about 12, 13 months old, he said ba for water. Well, why is that? Well, he learned bottle of water and so he said ba. Now, he would even extend this to anything water. So, for instance, a lake or a pool or a bathtub. Now my wife and I of course knew this, we had to translate though for his babysitters or other people. Because he developed his own unique way of saying things. Which is pretty common when children are first learning language. So, in fact, perhaps you have examples of a sibling or a cousin who's at the similar age right now and says things their own way. So why don't you go to the forum and talk about this, maybe give some examples that you know about. Thanks Gregg. So finally your on two and a half to three years old children begin the third phase of language development which is the sentence phase. Here they begin speaking in grammatical sentences. Now we know that children go through predictable stages of language acquisition. That's from cooing to babbling then onto one word utterances. Then two-word utterances. And finally, into the sentence phase. Now, all of this happens in approximately the first three years of life. It's no coincidence that the brain of a three year-old child is about 80% of an adult size brain. Again, this demonstrates the importance of the size of our brain and our ability to develop and understand language. So, let's move on. We know that the first three years of life is when we begin to comprehend and produce language. But, what would happen if we were not exposed to language? Or, for example, if you had limited exposure to language during the first three years of life. Type in what you think would happen here. Well, unfortunately, your ability to learn language is seriously hindered. We know just how important it is to be exposed to languages due to case studies. We've talked about case studies before in this class, for example the Phineas Gage case study in lesson three. We have another case study to discuss in this lesson. This one involves a woman named Genie. Let's go to Susan for more details. At age two, doctors told Genie's parents that she had mild retardation. Now her father, who was not mentally stable, thought that this meant that she was severely retarded and that she needed protection. Now what happens next is quite tragic. Throughout her life during the day, her father tied her to a chair, and in the evenings he caged her in a crib. Moreover, whenever Genie tried to speak, her father beat her and barked at her like a dog. Now this happened to her throughout her life until she was about thirteen years old when her mother ran away and took Genie with her. Now when the social worker first met Genie, she though she was only six or seven years old. And this is because Genie was only four foot six inches tall and fifty nine pounds. Not what you would expect from a typically developing thirteen and a half year old. In addition Genie had very limited language abilities. She could only say things such as no more or stop it. Intestingly, after four years of lanuages training, Genie still had limited language abilities. She could meet simple demands in terms of speaking simple sentences but she could not speak grammatically. Interestingly though, her language comprehension was much better than her language production. Meaning that she was able to understand much of what people said to her. [BLANK_AUDIO] Thanks, Susan. Now here's an interesting finding. Using neural imaging, researchers found that when Genie was listening or speaking, the activity in her brain was located mostly in the right hemisphere. Now remember, we just mentioned that language comprehension and production is located in the left hemisphere. This led researchers to suggest that the left hemisphere speech development requires stimulation from the environment. During what's called sensitivity period if it's to develop properly. The sensitivity period are ages before critical stimulation and learning must occur, otherwise the window of learning will close and it will become very difficult to learn languages. If you are interested learning more about this case study, the movie Mockingbird Don't Sing, is based on her life story. Although tragic, it demonstrates again how much we can learn from human thought and behavior by using case studies such as these. Let me ask you a question? Do psychologists always agree on theories? Yes or no? There're theories in psychology that psychologists don't necessarily agree on. And one of them is language acquisition. But, lucky for you, we have two very skilled PhD level psychologists, Greg and Susan, here to discuss their different views. And this will allow you to make an education decision about the strengths and weaknesses of each theory. As well as what each theory helps us to accomplish. So I'm going to step out for a little while, and let Greg and Susan take over the lesson. I'll see you guys a little later. Have fun thinking like true psychologists. So, Lauren's right. You know, sometimes different psychologists do have different perspectives on things. But you may we wondering, what's so important about theory? Who really cares? Well, actually, it's quite interesting. Psychologists who have different perspectives on language acquisition have actually had some heated debates in the past. For example, I was trained as a behaviorist. So I subscribe more to B.F. Skinner's theory of verbal behavior. And I side more with Noam Chomsky. The point is that Chomsky and Skinner did disagree, have different perspectives on how language was acquired, but that's okay. Now this is a good example of what we learned in lesson one, that different psychologists have different view points or perspectives in terms of how they explain behavior and sometimes they're very passionate about those view points. Now throughout the course we discuss the importance about nature and nurture in learning. And it's also important to hear when we're looking at how we learn to comprehend and to produce language. The social cultural theory of language suggests that things such as schooling, our peers, birth order, socioeconomic status and our parents all contribute to our language development. And we know that imitation is important and you should remember that from the lesson on learning. An interesting example of imitation, did you know that infants as young as 50 minutes old will open their mouths and stick out their tongues when they see adults do. That's pretty powerful. See, as Susan is right, but to me language learning is as much about the brain, as it is about imitation and reward reinforcement. So for instance, humans after all learned thousands and thousands of rules of grammar without ever knowing they even have learned them. So reward and reinforcement can't be the only explanation. Now of course, we also need input from culture and the environment to learn languages. After all, we learn specific languages. So in that way, Susan and I agree. Learning language is more nature and nurture than it is nature or nurture. Now nature and nurture is a great starting point for our discussion on different theories of language acquisition. How about if I discuss Skinner and his theory on verbal behavior and you can discuss Noam Chomsky's theory. And then we can leave it to the students to decide what parts of which theory they think best explain language acquisition. Sound good? Sounds good to me. So I'm going to discuss B.F Skinner's theory of Verbal Behavior and how we acquire language. And you'll see that adults do much to encourage imitation from children. And one way they do so is through what's called child directed speech. You saw an example of child directed speech in the lesson on development when we had the quiz. I was engaging in child-directed speech, and I did so by raising my voice a higher pitch, I talked in smaller sentences, and I used lots of emotion. Oh, aren't you a cute little baby? Now we see that the dogs change the way they speak to children, with our example of child directed speech. But i have a question for you; how else do you think that nurture, or the environment can have an impact on our vocabulary? Think about it for a minute, and type your response here. Most likely you have a number of examples of how the environment can have an impact on our vocabulary. But now let's take a closer look at some ground breaking research conducted by Betty Hart and Todd Risley, and they looked specifically at how our environment may have an impact on our vocabulary. So, Hart and Risley recorded and analyzed the verbal interactions with 42 families. From when the child was ten months, until they were age three. And they did so by examining children from three different types of families. From professional families, from middle class families, and from welfare families. Now what do you think the study found? Do you think there was a positive correlation? Meaning as socioeconomic status increased, verbal ability also increased. Or, was there a negative correlation? As socioeconomic status decreased, verbal ability increased or was there no corelation between socioeconomic status and verbability. So take a moment and think about it and choose one response. It's okay if you don't know, just take a guess. They found a positive correlation. And that those with higher socio-economic status also had higher verbal ability later in life. But let's take a look at this in a little more detail. So the results of the Hart and Risley study, first we see that all the children started to speak at around the same time. They also developed good structure and use of language. And together these findings help confirm when language generally occurs. But I saved the most interesting results of this study. And these results are based on the type of family environment the children were exposed to. So let's move forward with those results. Now remember, Hart and Risley had families of a professional status, middle-class, or welfare. And what they found was that, children from professional families heard, on average, 2,153 words per hour. Children in the middle-class family heard on average 1,251 words per hour. And, the children in the welfare families heard on average 616 words per hour. Therefore, we see that the type of family that the child was in had a great impact on the overall number of words that they heard. But, that's not all. That means that, for children in a professional family they had approximately 11,000,000 words per year. those in the middle class family heard approximately 6,000,000 per year and finally those in the welfare group heard approximately 3,000,000 words per year. Hart and recently found that by age four, the children from the welfare families could have heard about 30,000,000 fewer words, compared to those in the professional family. But that's not all. Let's look at one more important finding from Hart and Risley. In addition, Hart and Risley found that the children from the high income families heard more praise words or encouragement words than did those from the welfare families. Specifically, those from professional families heard a ratio of six positive words to every one negative word. And those in the middle class families, heard two positive words for every one negative word. For those from welfare families, they heard one positive word for every two negative words. So not only did type of family status play a role in the number of words on average children heard per hour and the number of words they heard per year. They also found that the type of words, positive and encouraging, versus negative and discouraging, different among family type. This is an excellent demonstration of how the environment or nurture can have a great impact on our vocabulary. So, why is vocabulary size important. Well, Hart & Risley found in their longitudinal research that the vocabulary size of the children at age three demonstrated a strong positive correlation to language test scores at ages nine and ten. In vocabulary, listening, syntax, and reading comprehension. This study nicely demonstrates the importance of nurture or the environment on language. So, when talking about imitation, we see the nature side. In that, all the children began to speak at about the same time. And they were able to use language as functional tool. And we also see the nurture side. And this was the number of words that children were exposed to based on their family type. And also whether they heard more encouraging words or discouraging words. So, the important point to take home here is that we should try to expose our little ones to as many words as possible, to increase their vocabulary. You may ask why is vocabulary important? Well, Hart and Risley found an interesting study. They found a strong positive correlation between children's vocabulary size at age three and their language test scores at age nine and ten. Now remember that this is a correlational study, so we can't see there was a cause and effect relationship. But it is a nice demonstration of how powerful different environments are in terms of language development. So how do we learn to describe the world within our skin? What's going on? Well, we learn, through trial and error, experience, and reinforcement. So, here's an example. My niece, Sophia was about six years old. And we were at the airport, and she was going to fly to Switzerland for the summer to see her Grammy. And she said, aunt Sue, my tummy feels funny. And I said oh, honey those are called butterflies, you're just nervous about flying. She said no it, it doesn't feel right. It kind of hurts. I said no, no. That's just called nervousness or anxiousness. And she kept telling that something was wrong, and I was trying to describe it as excitement, as anxiousness. And it turns out that when they got to Switzerland, my brother called me, and Sophia actually was vomiting the entire way. so, it turns out that Aunt Sue was wrong. she wasn't anxious, she wasn't nervous, she actually had some type of stomach bug. But that's an example of me as an adult, trying to teach a child about what's going on inside their skin. So, besides experiencing pain or an upset stomach, how do we describe feelings such as love or passion? There's a lot of literature out there on love and passion. But until you experience it, it's very difficult to describe. We see that Skinner described learning language from a functional approach. Now, what does that mean? So Skinner asked what is the function of language. And I'm going to ask you, what does language allow us to do? Type your response here. Think about it for a moment. So what does language allow us to do? You probably came up with a lot of answers. One thing we can say is that language allows us to function effectively. We can communicate with others. We can ask for things. We can describe things. So, Skinner's approach was a functional approach. Chomsky, we see, described learning language from a structural approach. But now, let's turn to Greg for the discussion of Chomsky. You know, yes, Chomsky did look at the structure of language and he did believed that there was a universal structure to language. And that humans have this inborn natural capacity to acquire language. In fact, he called it a language acquisition device that we're born with. So in fact, specific languages, all 6,000 of the world's languages. Are just expressions of this universal grammar, and so in this sense Chomsky was a nativist. He argued very much that we don't so much learn language as we discover it. It's natural, universal grammar. So the essence of Chomsky's view on language, is that the human mind learns language naturally and easily. In fact, actually, learning is not even the best word. We discover language, much the same way we discover walking. It just happens to us. In fact, think about how easy it was for you learning your first native language. You didn't really learn it, it just happened. So, it's not at all like math or reading or history, you just do it. This is Chomsky's view on language acquisition. Like the others, Skinner thought that we evolved such that we have the vocal apparatus to be able to learn language. And in fact Skinner though that we learn language just like we learn any other behavior. And that's why he calls it verbal behavior. We are surrounded by verbal communities and they teach us the sounds and words that are effective in that community. And you'll notice that parents use imitation and reinforcement when teaching their children how to talk. That's right Johnny, you said water, good job. So in addition to reinforcement, you may also be punished for language. For example, perhaps you said a curse word in front of somebody you shouldn't have and you got in trouble for it. If you speak differently to your friends than you do to your parents or your grandparents, you would have what Skinner would say, audience control. Meaning you're reinforced to speak in a certain way in front of some people, and speaking that way in front of others, you could actually be punished. If language were discovered, then why didn't Jeannie learned how to speak. Well actually, we saw that Jeannie did try to speak, and was imitating, but she was punished for it, remember, her dad barked at her. Therefore she had limited language skills. Finally we're going to ask again why is it very important and we hope that we can get some practical applications from a theory. And it turns out theory of Skinner in verbal behavior using principles of operand conditioning has been very effective in teaching children with autism how to speak. And they even use these theories to teach individuals with intellectual disabilities how to speak. So now that you have information on these two ideas of language acquisition, why don't you think about it on your own and come up with your own view. You know, so why don't you think about which side you side with or which parts of each perspective you think make the strongest case. You know, this will make a great discussion topic on the forum. So go there with your answers. And we really look forward to seeing what you have to say. Okay, I'm back. I hope you guys enjoyed Susan and Greg's discussion of Skinner and Chomsky. But now let's switch gears a little bit and I want to ask you a question. Do you that we can teach animals to speak gramatically correct sentences? Yes, no, or sort of. Well the answer is sort of. Chimpanzees and gorillas have learned to use sign language, but their sentences are never very complex. They usually don't get past the level of a two to three year old human, regardless of how long they've used the language A question that a lot of students have is, can we teach other species human language? Well, we do know that other species communicate with each other. For example, birds sing songs when they want to mate or warn that a predator is near, and whales send long, melancholic tones that other whales can hear from miles away. But the question is, can we teach other species human language? Let's take a closer look. Chimpanzees cannot speak human language because they don't have the vocal structure needed to speak. But we do know that humans have taught apes to learn American sign language, and in doing so they've been able to communicate with humans. Researchers Alan and Beatrix Gardner for example, compiled more than four hundred American sign language signs. That their three chimps have learned to use through extensive training. Another animal, Kanzi, a bonobo, which is a type of ape, understands at least 3,000 English words and uses symbols to communicate with his teacher and other people. His teacher is Doctor Sue Savage Rumbagh. When Kanzi was seven years old, they compared his language comprehension to a two and a half year old human. Both of them had 660 spoken requests to see whether they were able to understand and perform the requests. And it turns out they're both able to perform the commands at about the same rate. They were both about 70% successful. Moreover, what's really fascinating is that one study showed that five chimpanzees who knew how to sign actually communicated with each other for quite a bit. And when they analyzed their signs, they found that 88% of their conversations were about social interactions. These are things such as play and reassurance. The other 12 percent were about things such as grooming, talking to themselves, feeding, disciplining, and even cleaning. That's pretty amazing. Another fascinating discovery was about a chimpanzee named Washoe. She actually began teaching her adopted son to sign. And only eight weeks after learning sign language from his adopted mother, he began to sign regularly with humans. So how cool is this stuff? I really love it. It makes me teaching my dog to bark when I say speak, seems kind of mundane when these animals can learn actually how to communicate using sign language. There's a lot of other studies like this. So we'll post some links in the instructors notes box for you to check out if you're interested in it. So the moral of the story is that yes, for some animals they can learn to communicate using human language, however not at the level you and I speak. So let's go to Susan to introduce our last area that we're going to discuss about language. One last thing Lauren said that we're going to discuss, is the idea of language, thought and culture together. So what happens when we learn our native language and then we're exposed to people who speak a different language? Will we be able to understand concepts that they have in their language, if we don't have those in ours? Well, the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis states that language creates thought as much as thought creates language. And the idea here is that if we're speaking different languages, we don't have a common foundation. Therefore, it would be difficult to communicate and translate ideas from one language to the other. Now the linguistic determination hypothesis, suggest that our language actually determines our way of thinking and our perceptions of the world. Basically, what they're saying is that, we don't have a word for an idea or a concept in our language, it's not possible to think about that idea or that concept. Now, one very interesting example that seems to support this hypothesis comes from a small tribe of about 200 people who live in the Amazon area of Brazil. Now these individuals have no words for numbers that are higher than two. Therefore it's almost impossible for them to understand the concepts of nine and ten. And they even have difficulty with an operation 3 plus 1. Now this is not because these people are not intelligent. It is because they don't have words for numbers higher than two. Now let's go back to Lauren for a recap of this section on language. So, to recap, we see that humans begin to speak around the same time and follow predictable patterns of language development. We've seen the importance of nature, meaning the language areas of our brain, so the Wernicke's area and the Broca's area, and nurture, meaning our exposure to models who imitate our language and reinforce our language. We saw that the amount of words a child is exposed to, is a function of nurture. Psychologists have different theories regarding language acquisition and there continues to be discussion regarding these theories. And finally we saw that other species can be taught to use American sign language and use it to communicate not only with humans but each other as well. Okay, so now let's move onto thought. For those of you who speak more than one language, think about this: are there ideas or concepts that you know in one language, but that have no equivalent in another language? Yes or no? And for those of you who speak only one language, are there ideas and thoughts that you have trouble putting into words? Yes or no? Choose the answer, to whichever question applies to you. The answer to both of these questions is most likely yes. Clearly language is the most important means of communicating our thought and ideas, but they're not necessarily the same, as these two examples demonstrate. We might have an idea in one language that we can't quite translate to another. Or you might have a lot of thoughts going through your head, but you can't quite get them out into words. That shows that there is a slight disconnect between thought and language. But let's go to Susan for a little bit more on this. I have a question. For those of you who speak more than 1 language, do you ever dream in a different language than the one you usually speak in? Always, sometimes, once, never, or I do not speak more than 1 language. If you have had a dream in a language different than the one you usually speak, this will be a great opportunity to discuss it on the forums, and some people have been known to dream in a different language. I had a student in one of my classes, who was a native Spanish speaker, and learned how to speak English for school, but he told me, every once in a while, even though he spoke English almost all the time, he would have a dream in Spanish. Go to the forums and share your experiences. So in our last section, we talked a little about culture, language, and thought. And now, we're going to jump to focusing on thought in more detail. First we're going to begin by looking at thinking, reasoning, and decision making, but there's a couple words you should know before we start. So, here, we have "cognition". "Cognition" is the mental processes involved in acquiring, processing, and storing knowledge. If you remember from lesson one, we talked about cognitive psychology. Which is the study of how people perceive, remember, think, and solve problems. When you're at home on the couch relaxing, thinking about a vacation you want to take, or of the great movies you saw last week, or even thinking about a new way to solve problems you may encounter. What's happening? How are you able to do that? Did you ever stop to wonder about what was going in in the brain? That is, how do we use our brains to solve and maintain these mental processes? So thinking is our cognition. Cognitive psychologists suggest that we use mental representations to represent our knowledge, memories, or ideas in order to store and maintain our mental processes. Mental representation is defined as a structure in our mind, such as an idea or image. That stands for something else. Such that an external object, or things that was sensed in the past or future. But whatever it is, it's not something in the present. These mental representations, allow us to think about things that are abstract, and have no physical existence. Earlier in this lesson when we talked about language, we asked about love and passion. We can also include things such as truth or justice, as abstract ideas that we can represent in our mind visually and verbally. So visual imagery involves visual representations created by the brain after the original stimulus is no longer present. Now if you recall, the visual system is mostly located in the occipital occipital lobes. One interesting thing to note is that while we're visualizing something, our brain is active in much of the same ways it is during visual perception. That is, visual imagery has similar brain activity to visual perception. In fact, because of this, if you imagine doing your very best at a task, it may actually help you improve in your performance. Sports psychologists are aware of this, and use visualization techniques to help improve athlete's performance. Researchers have noted that both visual imagination and visual imagery are the most important to many creative accomplishments, both in science and in art. I want you to try this. Which are these 3 pairs of figures are different? Select as many or as few as you'd like. This one and this one are both different. Congratulations, you just engaged in mental rotation. This is the process of imagining an object rotating in three-dimensional space. As it turns out, there's actually some gender differences in performing mental rotation tasks. It appears that boys and man, perform better in these tasks. This appears to be universal, because they found similar findings in China, Japan, Ecuador, Ireland and in the US. So how do we organize information in our environment? Well we do so by labeling and naming things. We first do this in the most basic unit of knowledge, which is called a concept. The concept is a mental group of events, objects, or people. So, for example, the concept of an animal can include mental groups for birds and fish. And these can be broken down even further into different types of birds. For example, an eagle or sparrow. In different types of fish for example a catfish or a koi fish. These concepts help us in our attempt to organize and perceive the world. To that end we often engage in what's called a concept hierarchy, as you see here which is an arrangement of concepts in a particular way. Some being really general, and some being more specific. And there's two last definitions we need to address here. The first is category. A category is when multiple concepts are organized around one concept that they all have in common. For example, vehicles or trees. We can have all the different types of vehicles or all the different types of trees organized around this category. And these are well defined, but other categories can be kind of fuzzy. Such as good or consciousness. It can be difficult to order other concepts around one of these 2 concepts. And finally we have a prototype, which is the best fitting example of a category. Now we know there are mental representations can create categories to help us make sense of our world. But how do we use them to reason? Not one area that psychologists study. Reasoning. Reasoning is a process of drawing inferences or conclusions from principles and evidence. We have different types of reasoning, and those are deductive reasoning and inductive reasoing. Deductive reasoning is reason from. The general to the particular. So from general statements to specific conclusions. Here we see that the specific conclusions are always correct, if the general statement is true. So let's look at an example of deductive reasoning. So Premise A, is all mass creates gravity. And Premise B, is all objects have mass. Therefore, all objects create gravity. Because if all mass has gravity and all objects have mass, then they must create gravity. Notice that the logical conclusion has to be true if the 2 premises are true. We know, however, that this type of reasoning can lead to correct conclusions only when the general premises to which they are based are true. Let's look at another example. Premise A,is I don't know math. Premise B is, I can't learn math. Therefore, I shouldn't even bother trying to learn math". We see, here, that this reasoning leads to a false conclusion, because premise A is false. And so is premise B. So, even though the argument is. Easily structured in the same way. One leads to an accurate conclusion, and one, this one, does not. Deductive reasoning is what scientists use when we make predictions for our general goals. Now let's go to Susan and talk about inductive reasoning. The other type of reasoning is inductive reasoning, and this is when we draw general conclusions from specific information. Now this is different than deductive reasoning where we can make certain and necessary correct conclusions. With inductive reasoning, we can only rely on highly likely outcomes. For example, you may say that all cats you've known have been friendly; therefore, all cats are friendly. And that may be the case for your experiences. But for me, I've known some friendly cats, but I was also attacked by a pack of feral cats when I was a little girl. Therefore, your inductive reasoning is different than my inductive reasoning, and we can't be sure that we've come to the correct conclusion. But let's go to Greg now and he's going to discuss inductive reasoning in a little more detail. So when we reason inductively, we often make causal inferences. And a causal inference is simply when we decide that one thing causes another. So for example, when I go on a vacation, I always get sick. And implicit in this statement, is a causal inference. And the causal inference is that vacations causes me to get sick. Now, when we use inductive reasoning and causal inferences, we sometimes fall prey to what's known as confirmation bias. And confirmation bias is when we seek out information and pay attention to information that confirms our already held beliefs, and we dismiss and ignore information that dis-confirms, or contradicts, our beliefs. So for example, when you're writing a paper, do you actually look for information that dis-confirms and contradicts your thesis? Or do you write about and pay attention to only that information that confirms your ideas? Yeah, I thought so. You know, many of us do this. But next time you're writing a paper, try this. Try to integrate, both confirming and disconfirming evidence. It'll make for a stronger paper. Which actually leads to our next topic, Critical Thinking. If you recall from lesson 2, we discussed that we wanted you to become better critical thinkers. Where critical consumers of research and information. So let's move onto talk about critical thinking. Critical thinking can be defined as the process by which we analyze and evaluate the formation of new ideas. So this is how we analyze facts, how we organize and generate new ideas, how we defend our opinions and thoughts, how we draw inferences, how we evaluate arguments, how we make comparisons, and how we solve problems. These are all examples of critical thinking. So, critical thinking involves analyzing, interpreting, evaluating, explaining, making inferences, and engaging in self-regulation. If you can learn these skills, you can become a better critical thinker. In doing so you examine people's claim by analyzing, evaluating, and drawing conclusions based on the facts and on the evidence. The last term in this section that we're going to talk about is the idea of metacognitive thinking. In metacognitive thinking, is the process that includes the ability to first think and then to reflect on one's own thinking. So it's thinking about thinking. So if you ponder how to solve a particular problem, and you first think about the solution and then you think about the process to get to that solution, that's metacognitive thinking. Now this ability is not universal. Without specific training, many people have difficulty questioning their own thinking. In this last section on language and thought, we're going to discuss judgement and decision making. For example, when I was at home writing this lesson I kept wonderign all day, should I eat that burrito that's in the refridgerator. Now you may say, well that's a silly question. But not really if you think that the way I answer it could have a profound effect on my health and weight. For example, if I ate a burrito every day and didn't exercise, that could be trouble for me. Every day we're faced with these types of situations and questions. For example, are you going to go to that rock concert? What are you going to wear today? Are you going to call that person back? So, in this lesson, we'll learn about how we do make those judgments, and our decisions. >From the time you woke up today, how many decisions have you made? Here type in the number of major decisions you've made and here the number of minor decisions that you've made. What did you come up with for your answers? Hopefully, you had zero major decisions that you had to make today. As for the number of minor decisions, I started counting and lost track well after 35. In addition to decisions, we also have judgments that we make throughout the day. So when we say things like, it is unlikely, or chances are, or even I decided, we are judging how likely something is to happen. That is, its probability. It may not surprise you that as humans we use short cuts to help us make decisions. Heuristics are mental short cuts that we use to help us make complex decisions and judgments, and they often result in quick and efficient decisions. Now, we'll talk about two main types of heuristics. The first is representativeness heuristic. And here, we make estimates on the probability of an event based on how typical or representative it is of anther event. And the second, is the availability heuristic. And we use this strategy, we rely on the ease with which estimates some to mind, or how aware we're of those estimates. But lets go to Lauren for a question on the availability heuristic. Now, don't worry if you don't know the exact number. But, what do you think. Roughly how many people die each year in commercial plane crashes in the United States? Type your answer here. And, how many people do you think die each year in automobile crashes in the United States? Type your answer here. Let's go to Greg to talk about the answers to this, and talk about how availability can lead to a fear of flying. Let's go to Greg to talk about the answers to this. And talk about how availability can lead to a fear of flying. So thanks, Lauren. You know, there a classic study in psychology that has to do with availability heuristic. And it revolves around the question you were just asked. Which is, are we more likely to die in airplanes or automobiles? And when people are asked this, they tend to overestimate the likelihood of dying in an airplane. And in fact, the statistics show just the opposite. We're much more likely to die in an automobile. For instance, in the US about 30,000 people a year will die in automobile crashes, and only about a hundred or so will die in plane crashes. So in fact, planes are much safer than automobiles. So, even though we know these numbers, we're still more afraid of flying than driving. Why is that? Well, as it turns out, there's a thing called vividness. And vividness is related to availability and accessibility. So, when we hear about a plane crash, it's horrific. A lot of people die all at once, and that makes it very vivid in our minds, very accessible, very available. So, when we think about flying versus driving, we're more likely to think of dying in a plain crash, because it's a vivid event and that's availability. What heuristics tell us about human thought and decision making is that they're quick and efficient, and therefore they're adaptive in everyday life. They allow us to make decisions such as whether or not we should jump out of the way of that moving car to save our lives. However, heuristics can also lead to biased decision and estimate making, and unfortunately we see that humans are not as rational as we would like to think we are. Humans have evolved such that we can learn language easily from our verbal communities, and it is easy to overlook the revolutionary effect that human language has had in our evolution and development as a species, as well as our ability to communicate and pass on knowledge from generation to generation. There is a regular sequence in which we acquire language Beginning with cooing, then babbling, one-word utterances, and finally, by age three we speak in grammatical sentences. The case study of Genie demonstrates that there are critical periods for acquiring language. And after that window of opportunity, language acquisition is very difficult. We also discussed an important principle of science and that not all scientists always agree an explanations and theories. In particular we saw how Skinner and Chomsky had different explanations for language, a behaviorist view or a nativist view. We covered the psychology of thought in cognition. And discussed how we represent ideas both visually and verbally, and use concepts, categories and hierarchies to organize our thoughts, and to understand our world. We discussed different kinds of reasoning, deductive and inductive, and how critical thinking can make us better consumers of information and ideas. Finally, we demonstrated how we use mental shortcuts, or heuristics, in making decisions, and how those can help, but sometimes bias our decision-making. In this lesson we're going to talk about Intelligence. But, before we get started, I want to ask you something. So, what do you think of when you think intelligence? Do you think about a smart person? I know a lot of us do. But if you had to guess, which form of life here do you think has intelligence? Do flowers? Do trees? Bacteria, worms, spiders, the snake like tickles? A cat, a dog, a dolphin, a chimp, a human, what has intelligence? Choose as many or as few as you'd like. Most psychologists rule out anything without a nervous system. So a worm, a spider, ugh a snake like tickles, a cat, a dog, a dolphin, a chimp, and a human definitely have some form of intelligence. What is intelligence? Now, I want you to try something. Try to define intelligence in at least six words. That's hard right? Don't worry about it, even psychologists have a hard time defining intelligence. This is a big question in psychology. What is intelligence? Some people might channel Justice Stewart of the United States Supreme Court. And say, well, I know it when I see it, as he did when he was trying to define obscenity and pornography. But psychologists have come up with a basic answer. Intelligence consists of a set of cognitive skills or abilities. Including abstract thinking and reasoning, problem solving, the ability to understand complex ideas. The ability to acquire knowledge, and the ability to learn from experience and adapt to a changing environment. Other less agreed upon intelligent components are memory, working memory, spatial ability and mathematical ability. So, how can scientists disagree about the theory of intelligence? Well, let's go to Greg and can tell us a little more about that. So, there are two main scientific theories of human intelligence, but before we get into those theories, let's remember what scientific theories are all about. Scientific theories explain and organize the known evidence on a given topic. It's important to remember, though, that good scientific theories, are always open to change, based on that scientific evidence. So, scientific theories make testable predictions, and we test those predictions, with empirical studies. The results of those studies, then, lead scientists to either confirm, disconfirm, or modify, their theories. So now I'm going to send you over to Lauren to talk about the two theories of human intelligence. As Greg said, there are two main theories of intelligence. First, looking at intelligence as a single, unified set of related skills. The second, looking at intelligence as multiple, unique sets of skills. So how are you intelligent or how intelligent are you? Which question do you think is the better question to ask when talking about intelligence. Now let's get started by talking about intelligence as a single ability theory. Charles Spearman developed one of the first theories of intelligence. He believed that intelligence is a single general capacity or ability. The reason for his belief is that he found that although intelligence test assessed math, language, and spatial ability. Children's scores on these domains, tend to be positively correlated. Meaning, those who scored high on one dimension, for example, math, tend to score high on others, such as language, or spatial skills. Likewise, those who scored on low on one dimension, tended to score low on others. Sperman's theory of intelligence address the question how intelligent are you? And the evidence for this theory is fairly strong. Sperman found that the correlations across the three domains were about positive .6 and .7. Now this is on a correlation scale between negative 1 and positive 1. And because it's positive, the 2 scores will go in the same direction. So as one score increases, so does the other score. Still to this day modern tests of intelligence show that the 3 primary domains of intelligence are positively correlated. Supporting the view that intelligence is one general ability. Now it's important to remember That theories drive scientific research. A theory doesn't necessarily mean it's a law, regardless of how strong the correlations are. Theories can change and be adapted over time. The theory that intelligence is one, basic set of related skills is known as the g-factor theory of intelligence. This is the foundation for the idea that intelligence Can be represented by a single number. This theory organizes intelligence into a hierarchy. With general intelligence. Or g at the top. And from there extends three specific domains. Your spatial abilities. Your mathematical abilities. And your verbal abilities. Until recently, all of the major tests of intelligent, has been based on Sprimen's theory. Critics of Spearman's theory of single intelligence didn't think that it did justice to the complexity of intelligence. Although the domains that were tested were moderately to highly correlated with each other, critics didn't think that these domains accurately showed all of intelligence. In other words, they questioned the validity of this theory. Do you think your intelligence could be accurately measured using an IQ test? Or, do you think something would be missing? If something was missing, what do you think it would be? Critics believe that there is more to intelligence than the three domains of verbal, mathematical and spatial skills. One of the most well known critics, Thurstone, in the 1920s and 30s, proposed the idea of seven primary mental abilities. So, in addition to verbal comprehension, mathematical and spatial skills. He added associative memory, reasoning, perceptual speed, and word fluency. It wasn't until the late 1980s, before the theory of multiple intelligences really took hold, after being reshaped by Harvard psychologist Howard Gardner. He agreed with g factor theories in one important way. Intelligence consist of abilities in language, so are verbal and linguistics, or mathematical and logical abilities, and our spatial abilities. And that scores in these three domains were highly correlated. His fundamental argument however, was that these three domains don't adequately capture the entire scope of intelligence, and argued for at least five other forms of intelligence. Musical intelligence, or bodily kinesthetic intelligence, or intrapersonal intelligence or interpersonal intelligence, inner naturalistic intelligence So here are the eight types. First, we have linguistics. This is the language and verbal side of intelligence. This is our ability to understand and use both written and spoken language. Next we have our mathematical logical type of intelligence. This is the ability to analyse information and problems logically, and to perform mathematical operations. For Spatial Intelligence, this involves the ability to solve problems in three dimensional space. Next, our Musical Intelligence involves the ability to perform or compose music, or to hear patterns and recognize them. Bodily kinesthetic Intelligence, this involves the capacity to use your whole body or parts of your body to solve problems, make something, or carry out a performance. Next, we have our Intra-personal Intelligence. This is the ability to understand, yourself, know who you are, what you want, and understand how you're going to react to different situations. Your Interpersonal Intelligence, this is your ability to understand other people, what they're thinking, what they're feeling, or what they're being motivated by. And finally, Naturalist Intelligence. This is having the ability to understand and discriminate different living things, such as plants and animals. And being aware and sensitive to one's natural world. Now that we've sorted out the different definitions for each type of intelligence. I want you to try to match different professions that would really benefit from somebody who's highly intelligent in one of these areas. Here's a list of professions. Athlete, dancer, mechanic carpenter, navigator, pilot, architect, sculptor, botanist, ecologist, biologist, psychologist, politicians, writers. People who live contemplative lives such as rabbis, priest or monks or musicians, song writers and dancers. Scientists, engineers, accountants. Poets, writers, lawyers, politician and speech writers. Match each type of intelligence with a group of professions that you think would benefit most from being highly intelligent in this area. Now I know some of them come up twice so, for example dancer comes up twice here. But, look at the ones around it. And taken as a group, what type of intelligence do you think would be best? And highly intelligent in linguistics would be really good for poets, writers, lawyers, politicians or speech writers. Because they're really good with spoken and written words. Scientists, engineers and accountant would really benefit from mathematical and logical intelligence. Because they're good at performing mathematical operations and analyzing information and problems logically. Spatial intelligence really helps navigators, pilots, architects and sculptors do their job. Because they're really good at solving problems in three dimensional space. Musical intelligent benefits musicians, songwriters, and dancers. Because they have a greater capacity to perform, or compose music, and to hear patterns and recognize them in music. Bodily-kinesthetic intelligence really helps athletes, dancers, mechanics, and carpenters. Because the use their whole body or different parts of their bodies to solve problems and make something or carry out performances. You'll see high levels of interpersonal intelligence in people who live contemplative lives, such as rabbis, priests, or monks, because they reflect inwards. They really understand who they are, and what they want. You'll see high levels of interpersonal intelligence in psychologists, politicians, and some types of writers because they understand other people and what motivates them. And finally, the naturalist intelligence is great for botanists, ecologists, and biologists because they're sensitive to the natural world, and can understand how to differentiate different living things. Gardner clearly expanded the scope of intelligence to include many cognitive and behavioral abilities. But, with the added domains, means that there isn't a high correlation between each area of intelligence. So you could be really high in one area of intelligence, but not so high in another. Greg, do you have anything to add about Gardner's theory of intelligence? Yeah. Gardner's theory has been very appealing to both educators and psychologists in the United States and in Europe. But what they've had to do is develop a whole curricula and schools around multiple intelligences. That's interesting. So it's obviously pretty hard to test this type of intelligence because that's not a simple pen and paper test like there are for the traditional IQ tests. That's right. In fact Gardner acknowledges that. He knows that there's no way of simply taking a pen and paper test to test for interpersonal intelligence for instance. So what educators have to do in these schools is they have to have projects and activities, creative activities interpersonal tasks, that they evaluate. Okay, so let me ask you this. Now, how do you think you are intelligent? Well, I would say I'm pretty high on verbal and interpersonal. Intelligence not so high on musical intelligence. So let me ask you this. How are you intelligent? So, according to multiple intelligence theory, there's a lot of different forms of intelligence. But, is there any evidence to actually support this? Yes, there is. In fact, some of the strongest evidence to support Gardner's theory of multiple intelligences comes from savants. And savants are people who have uncanny cognitive ability and at the same time, uncanny cognitive disability. So for instance, they might be able to remember things, calculate things or have incredible musical talent. And yet at the same time, they really have other cognitive disabilities. So we'll be talking more about this later on in the lesson. But the thing to take away right now is the fact that this mismatch between cognitive ability and disability supports Gardner's theory. Other evidence suggests that there is something in between. This intelligence says one thing or intelligence is as many things. Are you talking about the Catal Horrell theory of intelligence? Yes I am. I think I'm going to go explain that now. So, as I said, there's a theory of intelligence called the Cattell-Horn-Carroll theory of Intelligence. This is the best known compromise between the singular intelligence theory and the multiple intelligences theory. This theory focuses on the idea that intelligence comes in two distinct forms. Fluid and crystallized intelligence. Now if you remember from lesson five on development, fluid intelligence was the raw intelligence. This is the processing power and it's relatively free from the culture and environmental influences. Crystallized intelligence on the other hand reflects what you learn from your environment and your experiences. Let's look at the Cattell-Horn-Carroll theory as a hierarchy. It focuses on three broad levels. The first level is the general intelligence or the g factor. The second level is the broad level of intelligence. They're usually your general abilities. This is where your crystallized intelligence and your fluid intelligence comes into play. As well as things like, your general memory, or your processing speed. Now there's other abilities that go in this level, but these are the main four. And finally the last level, is the narrow level. This consists of specific forms of cognitive abilities from each of the broader domains. For example, with crystallized intelligence, it would be things like reading, spelling, or language comprehension. And for fluid intelligence, it would be things like speed of reasoning or facial reasoning. The main idea here is that intelligence would be a hierarchy. We start with the general idea of intelligence, the g factor, one intelligence. Then we go to a more broad level. This includes abilities such as crystallized and fluid intelligence, or memory and processing speed, among others. Then finally, from there, it narrows down into specific abilities for each one of these. Now all of these theories are great, but there's a problem here. Say we need to see if a drug can affect a child's intellectual development, well we need to have a way to measure intelligence. But how do we measure intelligence? Well the first thing you need to know is that intelligence is what psychologists call a hypothetical construct. Meaning it's an idea that can't be directly seen or measured, so it can only be indirectly measured. As important of an idea as intelligence is, it's hard to both define, and measure. But it has been measured, and tested for over 100 years. The first person to do this was Alfred Binet in 1903. He was looking for a measure that he could give to all students in the parish school district to assess who was struggling. Binet did some things that are still used today. He started with simple problems. But it got more difficult as the test went on. Now, he gave this test to thousands of children to see what was the normal or average score for the different age groups. Now, years later, in the 1920s, other psychologists built and developed the first Intelligence Quotient, the IQ. This is when the IQ actually got its name. They started with the mental age of each child. They were looking at what age most children stopped solving problems of a certain difficulty. So if you solved problems that most seven-year olds solve, but not most six year olds, then you have a mental age of seven. This is regardless of your chronological age but they did also look at your chronological age or how you are in years. Taking these two things together, your mental age and chronological age, made up the fist IQ ratios. So your IQ is defined as your mental age over your chronological age times 100 which was the average. And that gave you your IQ score. So for example, if a child had a mental age of ten and a chronological age of ten then their IQ would be 100. And this is the average for her age. In fact, 100 is always the average of IQ. But, if a ten year old was solving problems at a 12 year old level, then his or her IQ would be 120, whihc is above the normal IQ score. Likewise if a ten year old child can only solve problems at an eight year old's level. Your IQ would be 80, just below the norm. People who are scoring above 100 are scoring at a higher intellectual level than most of the population. People that are scoring less than 100 are scoring at a lower intellectual level than most of the population. Lewis Terman a psychologist from Stanford University created an American version of an IQ Test called the Stanford-Binet test. The Stanford-Binet test was the first to have national norms not just local ones, like the last ones we saw that was localized for Paris. The Stanford-Binet tests use the same IQ ratio as we talked about before. Mental age over chronological age times the average, which is 100. The test focused on three main domains, Verbal, language, Quantitative, math, and Spatial. One problem with the test, however, was that the questions they used were only for children and teenagers. So adult intelligence couldn't be measured. David Weschler solved this problem by creating a test of intelligence for adults, called the Weschler Adult Intelligence Scale. This looked at the same domains as the Stanford-Binet test. This test asked questions that were more adult appropriate. For example, why the individuals buy automobile insurance, or in what ways are boats and trains the same. Modern versions also test working memory, with problems such as the examiner saying three numbers for example three, nine and seven. And then the person is asked to repeat them back, or eight numbers, eight, five, nine, seven, four, three, seven, two. And again, the person has to repeat these. The more numbers a person can recall the greater their working memory is. Here. Why don't you to try this. Let's test your working memory. I want to start with three numbers. Two, eight, four. What numbers did I just say? Let's try the next one. Seven, three, four, seven. What numbers did I just say? Nine, six, one, two, seven. Type the numbers here: five, two, three, two, seven. Did your remember those? Okay, now try this. Eight, three, two, seven, four, nine, one. Can you repeat those? Okay. And the last one: four, six, seven, four, three, one, eight, two. Okay. Did you get that one? Let's see how you did. The first one was 2, 8 and 4. The second was 7, 3, 4, 7. The third 9, 6, 1, 2, 7. The fourth, 5, 7, 2, 3, 2, 7. The fifth 8, 3, 2, 7, 4, 9, 1. The last with 4, 6, 7, 4, 3, 1, 8, 2. So how did you do? Did you get on it. We should talk about this with the peers on the form. IQ tests have been controversial over the years. One of the major concerns is, are IQ rests reliable and valid measures of intelligence? Now the simple answer to is an IQ test a reliable measure, is yes. IQ test will produce consistent, meaning reliable, scores over time. In fact, the reliability of IQ tests are among the highest in social sciences. Now, how they find this, is they look at people's score at one point in their life, and then they compare it to their score at another point in their life. And even though time has passed, they find that the scores they have on IQ tests at different times are highly correlated. This shows that it's reliable. However, just because it's reliable doesn't mean there might not be problems with validity. So let's go back to Susan to talk about the validity of an IQ test. So, are IQ tests valid? That is, do they measure intelligence, or do they measure something else, such as a type of education you received, or how wealthy your parents are? In fact, it's the question of validity that's generated so much controversy regarding IQ tests. There are different types of validity, but it all boils down to, does a test measure what it's supposed to measure And also, does it predict the outcome it's supposed to predict? Now, the key here is not to overstretch what you think an IQ test can tell you. Now, an IQ test does have pretty good predictive validity in some areas such as academic success. So, it's good at telling you how good you'll do in different academic domains but not general life success. That's right. So IQ tests are good at predicting school achievement. Or even the type of college that one gets into. In fact, that's why Binet developed intelligence testing back in the early 1900's. Interestingly, IQ tests can predict the general type of career one goes into. Whether that's law enforcement, accounting, or even construction. And it's also interesting to note that IQ is related to longevity. With people with higher IQs living longer. Now, when people use an IQ test to try to tell you different important life outcomes like, being emotionally stable, generally happy, or having a successful marriage, you don't see a relationship between IQ and these domains. So it's really important to limit what you think an IQ test is going to tell you. Now it's important to know that there are cultural restraints when it comes to IQ testing. The question of race and IQ is very complicated and controversial. Now we won't cover all the nuances of this argument, and the evidence supporting it. But it's true that traditional IQ tests have worked against people from lower socioeconomic backgrounds, because they're so verbally based. And people from low socioeconomic backgrounds tend to be exposed to less complex vocabulary. In order to be more culturally fair, non verbal intelligence tests have been created. The most well known of these is Raven's Progressive Matrix Test. This is what the test looks like. Because this simply asks the person to recognize a pattern in shapes, it doesn't require special language or educational skills. Hence, it's culturally free. Now, even though there are limits to what IQ tests can tell you, they're widely used and can be pretty useful especially for educators. The popularity of IQ tests have been able to give us extensive knowledge of the range of IQ scores. Let's look at what IQ scores look like for the entire population. IQ scores are converted to have a mean of 100. Now the standard variation around the mean is 15 points. This standard variation is called the standard deviation. This show how much the score varies from the mean. So, the mean would be 0 because there's no difference. 15 points one way would be one standard deviation. Two standard deviations and three standard deviations. Same with the other way. One standard deviation from the mean, two standard deviations from the mean, and three standard deviations from the mean. 68% of the population is within one standard deviation from the mean. So 68% of the population has an IQ score between 85 and a 115. Now, 95% of the population is within two standard deviations from the mean. So 95% of the people you know score between 70 and a 130 on an IQ test, and 99.7% of the population scores within three standard deviations of the mean. So between 55 and 145. Now, as you can see, with 99.7% of the population scoring within three standard deviations in either direction of the mean, that doesn't leave a lot of room for people to score above a 145 or below a 55. It's only about 15 out of 1,000 people score higher or lower than either one of these two extremes. We also did an example like this in lesson two, the research methods lesson. You should go back and check it out if this is a little confusing. Now traditionally, those who have extreme IQ scores are given labels. Such as a genius who scores above 140 on an IQ test because not a lot of the population scores that high. Or intellectually disabled, those who score less than 70 on the IQ test because again, not a lot of the population score that low. So the terms genius and intellectual disability are really not fair because IQ is not the same thing as creativity. In fact, you can have disability, cognitive or intellectual disability and yet have extreme talents and this is best seen in savants. Savants are people who do in fact have Disability and yet extreme and uncanny talents. Kim Peek is one of the better known examples of, of a savant. Kim Peek for instance, could read a page in eight to ten seconds that takes us three or four minutes to read. And he could remember 98% of it. Up to years and years later, exactly what was on that page. He also could tell you precisely what day of the week you were born on, if you give your birthday. He could also tell you what your zip code was if you give him your address. And yet, he couldn't dress himself, and nor could he understand metaphor. So, for instance, the phrase get a hold of yourself, didn't really make sense to him. So do you think that Kim Peek's IQ is a valid indicator of how smart he is? People with learning disabilities, need to be assessed differently, because IQ doesn't really work for them. In fact, we have that. It's called the Adaptive Skills Test, and what the Adaptive Skills Test is all about, is assessing every day functioning. So how well you understand what people are saying can you feed yourself, can you dress yourself. And things like that. So, adaptive skills tests are better ways of assessing intellectual functioning in people with disabilities than IQ tests are. Some may wonder why we need intelligence tests at all. Well, as it turns out, these tests can be very helpful and beneficial in helping decide who deserves special assistance from State and Federal agencies. So for instance, special education. Now, let's look at how nature and nurture affect IQ. Identical twins share 100% of their genetic make up. They're genetically identical. Fraternal twins share only 50% of their genetic makeup. This is also true for siblings and parents. So, you share 50% of your genetic makeup with each one of your parents. So 50% with your mom and 50% with your dad. And you share 25% of your genetic makeup with your grandparents. Aunt, uncles, nieces and nephews. And people you are not related to? Well, you guessed it, you share 0% of your genetic make up with that. So we can turn these percentages into numbers ranging from 0 not related to 1 being identical twins, this is called genetic relatedness. Now, environment has to vary too. Typically, biological parents and children live in the same household. But that doesn't necessarily mean they have the exact same environment, but it is very similar. Now of course, there's also cases where biological parents and siblings are raised completely separate from each other. For example, when people are adopted. Now, let's look at a graph to show how IQ is related to different types of nature and nurture. Here are our IQ correlations. Remember, 0, 1, 2, 3, not very good. They're not really related. But high correlations mean they're really similar. And here, we'll see if they share an environment or not. Meaning if they live together or if they don't. So first, lets look at identical twins. They have a one on genetic relatedness. Here we can see that identical twins who were raised together have a 0.85 correlation between IQ scores. So because they're genetically identical, and they were raised in the same environment, their IQ scores are really similar. But we know nature matters because identical twins who also have a one in genetic relatedness because they're genetically identical, but were raised apart. So they didn't share the same environment, have a 0.75 IQ correlation. Meaning they're still really similar, but not as close as if they were to live together. Now, let's look at genetic relatedness of 0.5. Meaning sharing 50% of your genetic makeup. So fraternal twins share 50% of their genetic makeup. Those who were raised together, so they shared an environment have a correlation of about 0.6. So that's pretty related. However, if they're raised apart, it goes just below .4. Showing that environment does play a big factor in IQ. Siblings again, who you share 50% of your makeup with. Those who are raised together with a shared environment have just below a .5 correlation. So, it's not very related. However, if the siblings were raised apart, so they didn't share an environment. This significantly drops to just above a 0.2, which is a really low correlation. And parents who raise their children, so sharing an environment with them again have less than a 0.5 correlation. However when they didn't share an environment, again it drops to about a 0.2. These show the importance of environment. Now, lets look at adoption. So these people have 0 genetic relatedness but they share the same environment. So adopted siblings are just above a .3 in their IQ correlation and adopted parents are just below a .2 in their correlation. Even thought they shared the same environment, they didn't have a very strong correlation among IQ scores. That shows us that genetics are an important factor too. The formal conclusion of these studies says about 50% of the differences between people's intelligence is due to genetic influence. In about 40%, its due to environmental effects. That leaves 10% being unexplained. So we just don't know yet. Now that we know a bit about intelligence, and how we measure it. Let's see how our definition fits in with our intuition. Which of the following people would you consider to be intelligent? Charles Darwin, who created the theory of natural selection. Marie Curie, who created the theory of radioactivity. Or Shakespeare, who created plays, poems, and even new words. Select as many as you'd like. Well, in my opinion, they're all intelligent. But I don't know exactly what their IQ scores were. Maybe Greg can tell us little bit about their types of intelligence. So all three people that Lauren just mentioned are considered by society to be very intelligent people. The truth is, we don't really know their intelligence. They never took IQ tests. In fact, there's reason to believe that Darwin for example, was only average in his IQ. But these people still accomplished great things. So what's going on here is that psychologists, when they use the word intelligent. They mean something much more specific than the way people use the term in every day life. So what did all three of these people have in common? They were all very creative. They were able to generate new ideas in new fields of study. So psychologists make a distinction between creativity and intelligence. So we do this because they're really different things. So the research on the relationship between intelligence and creativity has shown that the correlation is only about 0.20 between them. Meaning that knowing someone's IQ only tell us a very little bit about their level of creativity. So for instance, someone could be really high on intelligence and not all that creative. Likewise, someone could be really creative and not score all that high on IQ. Although they probably would be at least average or maybe slightly above average on intelligence. So we've been talking about creativity. Here's a question. What do you think makes someone creative? So many of you may have said things like, it's original, it's unique, it's unusual and you'd be right, those are elements of creativity, but as it turns out, they're not enough. So Lauren now, is going to demonstrate that by presenting you with two paragraphs. So I want to start by showing you two paragraphs. Here's the first one. They're all so different Boylan talking about the shape of my foot. He noticed once even before he was introduced. When I was in the DBC with Poldy laughing and trying to listen, I was waggling, my foot. We both order two teas and plain bread, and butter and I saw him looking with his two old maids of sisters, when I stood up and asked the girl, where it was, what do I care with it dropping out of me and that black closed breeches he made me buy, takes you half an hour to let down, wetting all myself, always, with some brand new fad every other week. Here's the second one. This creation in which we live, began with the Dominant Nature as an Identification Body. With a completed evolutionary Strong Material creation in a Major Body Resistance Force. And is fulfilling the Nature Identification in a Like Weaker Material Identification creation in which two major bodies have already fulfilled radio body balances, and embodying. A third material identification embodiment of both. So, what do you think about these two paragraphs? Is either one creative, or both, or are neither? Check whichever one you feel is creative. So this first paragraph in fact, was written by the great novelist James Joyce and it's from his novel Ulysses. And this, we can deem quite creative, in fact it was, because it did something quite different. Not only different, but unique. So the second paragraph was authored by someone suffering from schizophrenia. And who's speaking really in what we call word solid. And this is not creative. So these two quotes demonstrate that creativity is something more than just originality. What it is and what it isn't. They're both equally original but the first also solve the problem in an adaptive and useful way. Creativity is not simply original thinking, after all both of these paragraphs are equally original. They're both unusual and both give voice to sentences that are probably never been uttered or written before these writers penned them. So, for something to be deemed creative however, it must not only be original, but it also must be useful and adaptive and solve a problem. James Joyce's paragraph does that, because it's part of solving the problem of telling a story. The second paragraph is not creative, because it's not useful. It doesn't solve a problem. By useful, we clearly do not mean pragmatic. James Joyce's novel was useful in the sense that he was the first novelist to write from the perspective of inside a person's unconcious mind. It has been so esteemed and deemed creative by experts and readers of English literature because it presented a powerful study of unconscious human thought and emotion. It can be useful in a literary, artistic, or aesthetic sense, in that people are inspired by it and make use of it in their own creations. The second quote, is equally as original but does not solve an important problem. In any useful or adaptive way. By itself, these phrases may be interesting but together, they're not terribly coherent. Or were not made with the intent of shedding light on the inner workings of a human mind as was "Ulysses". So. Creative thought and behavior requires two things. Originality or novelty of the thought and behavior, and that thought and behavior has to be useful and adaptive solution to some kind of problem. So new forms of art and literature, architecture, science technology, and business changed their fields. The field is different after the insight or innovation. Creativity changes things for the better. Of course the usefulness, our originality may not be immediately seen or appreciated. Truly creative thought, behavior may be well ahead of it's time. So the evaluation of creativity is not limited to the here and now. As with intelligence, we have the question, can creativity be measured? What do you think? Yes, no, sometimes, select one. Well, like intelligence, creativity is a hypothetical construct, and can only be measured indirectly, but it can and has been measured by psychologists. There are numerous ways to measure creativity, through problems, products, and tests. Here, try this. Take 60 seconds and tell me how many different uses you can come up with for this brick. Don't worry, there's no wrong answers. Just list them out here. Here are a few examples of some of the responses people have given to this question. This is an example of a creative thinking test, the alternate uses test. This test consists of a list of everyday objects, such as a brick or a newspaper, and asks the person to come up with as many different uses for an object as they can in a three minute period. The answers are scored on how original they are as compared to thousands of other responses people have given. How many answers they can come up with and how flexible their answers are meaning, how many different categories of answers people can come up with. Now creative people have more ideas, more flexible ideas and more original ideas than less creative people. Here, I want you to try this. Take out a sheet of paper and reproduce the nine dots you see here,,just like this. The task is to connect all nine dots with just four straight lines. When you are doing it, you can't pick up your pen or pencil from the paper and you can't retrace a line that you've already made. Go ahead and try it. Take a minute or two and we'll give you the answer. Don't worry if you struggle with it, I did too. Okay. Are you ready for the answer, here it goes. So, you have 1, 2, 3, 4 lines, and I didn't pick up my pen. This task is important because it demonstrates a very important principle of creative thinking. You have to break out of your mental perceptual limits, these limits you might not even realize you have. We were going to discuss a little bit more when we talk about problem solving. But here, if you struggled with this, you probably didn't realize you impose a square on the nine dots, like this. A lot of people who struggle with this try to stay within the box. This is a very literal example of thinking outside of the box. If you think about things differently, from a different perspective, you may come up with a creative solution. Breaking outside of your self-imposed mental limits. Highly creative people do this intuitively, automatically. For more problems like this and to demonstrate how creative thinking can be assessed, go to the website we put in the instructor's comments. These tests help researchers determine the low correlation between intelligence and creativity. Although we just saw how creativity can be used to solve problems, it's important to know that intelligence and creativity play a role in problem solving. And that's what we're going to talk about next. Psychologists have looked in the all different types of problem solving. They've learned a thing or two about what helps and what hinders us in our ability to solve problems. Now, before we get started in problem solving, I want you to try this. Now, imagine you're in a room, and there's two strings hanging from the ceiling. You can reach each string individually. But, the strings are too far apart for you to reach them both at the same time. What's also in the room is a set of pliers, like these. Now, if you had to connect these 2 strings together, how would you do it. What you're going to need to do is, grab the pliers, tie them, and then you swing them, like a pendulum. Then you can catch the string, get rid of the pliers, and now, you can tie them together. Problem solving is extremely important to us, because not a day goes by that we don't have to implement some type of problem solving strategy. Every test we do that we don't necessarily know how to do forces us to solve a problem. There are many strategies to solve different kinds of problems. For example, basic mathematical problems use algorithms. And algorithms are step by step formulas or procedures used to solve a problem. For example, you use an algorithm when you're trying to do long division. These step by step procedures work really well when there's a clear, yet unknown solution to a problem, these kinds of problems are called, convergent problems. They have a known solution and your thinking has to converge or narrow down on the correct solution. Other problems have no known solution, or many different solutions. These are called Divergent problems. This requires thinking that broadens and diverges to come up with a possible solution. Now for these kinds of problems, A good strategy to use is insight or the Eureka strategy. This involves lots of thinking, you might be stumped for a little while, put the problem aside for a little while. Then all of a sudden the solution will just hit you. The problem to this, is it can't be taught, like algorythms can. Now, of course we know that there is obstacles we face when trying to solve problems, that make them very difficult to solve. Two common obstacles to solving problems are fixation and functional fixedness. Fixation is the inability to break out of a mind-set and think about a problem from a new a fresh perspective. And functional fixedness is being fixed on seeing things as we're used to seeing them. And being unable to see unusual uses for everyday things or procedures. Do you remember these two problems? If you had a problem solving either of these, what obstacles do you think you would face for each? So which problem do you think your obstacle was fixation? And which one do you think it was functional fixedness. Write a one or a two in either box. Now if you struggled with this problem, you probably had a problem with your fixation. You couldn't break out of the mindset and look at it from a new perspective, so thinking outside of the box. And for this one, it'd be functional fixedness. For this one you probably didn't think pliers could be used as a weight for the rope to swing it over so you could grab it and tie the two ropes together. So this concludes my portion of the lesson. I'm going to send you back to Greg so he can give you the wrap up on the whole intelligence lesson. So, we've seen in this lesson how intelligence, creativity, and problem solving are similar yet distinct. Intelligence is our ability to understand complex ideas, to think abstractly, to reason, and to remember and successfully use information to solve problems. Creativity is the capacity to think or in behave in both original and adaptive ways. And solving problems can be done systematically, step-by-step, or by sudden and unexpected insight. We have to shed mental blinders we bring to problems if we are to solve the really difficult problems we face. Remember to always try to think outside the box. We hope that this lesson has helped you better understand the nature of intelligence, creativity and problem solving. And better yet, that you will be able to solve problems on your own more intelligently and more creatively. Why did you sign up for this online general psychology course? Or why did I take twelve months of training to try to get to the top of half dome at Yosemite National Park. Why did you wait in line for three hours to see the new Star Trek film? Or why did I order a double cheeseburger and chocolate shake, even though I know they're not good for me? Well, maybe the cheeseburger makes me feel good, so emotion can play a role. Or maybe I ordered it because I was just plain hungry. Well, in order to do all the things that Susan just talked about, you can need motivation, and that's exactly what we're going to talk about in this lesson. First we're going to start with talking about the theories of motivation. Then we'll talk about how motivations actually drive our behaviours. And we're going to end the lesson by talking about emotion. That's right. Now the word motivation comes from the Latin verb, which means to move. And so here we're interested in our movements and actions and what determines those movements and actions. And now Lauren is going to start talking a little bit about motivation in depth. Let's go do that. We see that there are both internal and external causes for motivations. The internal factors may be things such as being hungry, thirsty, or even in pain. On the other hand the external factors can include things such as, the sight of food, or the sight of a pretty person, or a stimulus that indicates danger. We see that motivation is the urge to move to one's goals. This involves needs, drives, and incentives. So, let's define these. For first, let's start with needs. Needs are states of cellular or bodily deficiency that compel or drive our body to seek out what it needs. For example, we need food. We need liquid or water. And we need oxygen. So, in addition to needs, we also have drives. Drives are perceived states of tension that occur when our bodies are deficient in some need. And this intern creates the urge to relieve the tension. So, the deficiency creates the drive, and our physiological needs have the drive component. Drives intern lead us to do something to satisfy the need, and the drive, and they lead to motivated behaviors. We also have what called incentives. An incentive is an external object, or event that motivates our behavior. You may have a motivation to do well at work to earn a monetary bonus, and the monetary bonus, is the incentive that you're working towards. Match the items to the types of motivation. Water, thirsty, drinking, then we have motivated behavior, drive and need. Put the corresponding letter in the box that matches the type of motivation. We see that water is the need, thirst is the drive, and drinking is the motivated behavior. Before we get into some of the basic motives, such as what we eat, when we eat, and our motives for sexual behavior, Greg, Susan, and I are going to discuss some of the models of motivation that psychologists have developed to explain what motivates us. So, from an evolutionary perspective, it makes sense that our bodies have these internal mechanisms that propel us to act in ways necessary for survival and reproduction. Let's take hunger and thirst, for example. So these needs propel us to act in ways toward, to look for food and water. And if we're successful, we survive, we reproduce, we pass on our genes. Now we also have a need to reproduce. Now as individuals we don't actually need to reproduce in order to survive. Although, of course, as a species we do. it's a little more complicated, so we'll talk more about sex and reproduction later on in the lesson. In addition to the evolutionary model of motivation, we also have what's called the drive reduction model. And, if you remember from lesson three, we talked about the brain and homeostasis. And homeostasis is at the center of the drive reduction model. Now, this model states that our bodies will strive to maintain homeostasis. Psychologists have suggested that we have what's called a set point and a set point is an ideal fixed setting of a physiological system. Such as our temperature or even our respiration. Now our brains have the ability to detect our physiological states and in turn our brains can activate a feedback system that helps the body maintain physiological states. At their ideal set point. Let's take a look at an example. Let's say you find yourself in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan in January, without a hat, coat, or shoes. Now, that's a very cold place to be. According to the drive reduction model, what would happen to your body? Well, first your brain would detect those changes in your physiological states. Most notably temperature and it would start a cascade of events that would allow you to try to increase your temperature. For example, you may rub your hands together. Rub your hands on your arms to warm yourself up. Jump up and down or even eventually begin to shiver. So this demonstrates how our body detects the change in our temperature. And it being outside of the ideal set point, and allowed you to do things to try to raise that temperature. The next model we're going to discuss, is the Yerkes-Dodson Law. So the Yerke-Dodson Law states that moderate levels of arousal, lead to optimal performance. So think back to our lesson on consciousness, where we talked about our levels of awareness. At one side of the continuum, we were unconscious, so in a coma, and we had zero awareness. And at the other end of the continuum. We are fully awake and aware. So, the idea here is somewhat similar. Except, instead of having awareness on a continuum, we have our level of arousal on a continuum. Like you see here, we go from low levels of arousal to high levels of arousal. And we also have quality of performance from low to high. So the idea here, is that we prefer to be in situations that are neither over-stimulating or under-stimulating. For example, over here when you're highly aroused, you'd be panicked. And you probably wouldn't perform very well. And around here you'd probably have a lot of anxiety and again, your performance wouldn't be that great. And a little higher up, we'd see stress where often the level of performance would still be decreasing when we're under stress, but we are highly aroused. Here we'd be mildly aware. You're awake, but not really into whatever we're doing. A little farther down, we'd see boredom and finally towards the bottom is where we'd find sleep. So we really want to be in this central area, for the optimal level of performance. We see these as important not only for things like academics. This could even be like for playing sports. So say you're playing hockey or soccer. You don't want to have too high of a level of arousal because then you're going to be panicked to have a lot of anxiety. Which will decrease your performance. But, you also don't want to be really bored or kind of tired and not really there. You want to be in this middle zone. That way, you can perform your very best. Have you ever experienced a time that you think that you under performed or optimally performed because of your arousal level. For example, have you ever given a speech that you knew by heart, but when you were on stage, and you were really nervous and all the caffeine you drank, made you really shaky, so you messed up. Something like that ever happen to you? Try to think of something. I'm sure there's been a time that you either did really well, or not so well because, I don't know, you didn't get enough sleep, or you were too anxious, things like that, and write it here. And this could also be a really good time for you to discuss this with your peers on the forums. So this happened to me in my last year of graduate school, when I was trying to give a neuroscience presentation on an article I read. I knew the article really well, but I hadn't slept at all the night before the presentation, I was really stressed out with work and school, so I just wasn't thinking straight. And I get up there, I'm halfway through, then I just completely blank. I have no idea what I'm talking about, I have to consult my notes. It was kind of embarrassing, but I got through it. Luckily my classmates were pretty nice about it, so don't feel alone if this has happened to you. The last model of motivation that we're going to discuss was developed by Abraham Maslow. Maslow developed the model of motivation in which he termed the Hierarchy of needs. This Hierarchy of needs states that we progress or move onto higher needs once the more basic needs are relatively well satisfied. Otherwise, we stay concerned with the more basic level needs. Here. Look at this model. For example, if we're dying of hunger, we're not concerned with beauty or aesthetics. But only with getting food. At the most basic level of needs, we need to fill our physiological needs. These are the things such as the need for food, water, oxygen. Or even an adequate body temperature. These are our basic needs in order to survive. And once we have our physiological needs met we can move on to the next level of the pyramid and that's a need for safety and security. Safety needs are things such as having security, protection, stability and also not being exposed to things such as terrorism or fighting. On the third level. Is our need for love and belongingness. According to Maslow, the third level includes things such as our desire to belong to our family or belong to our social groups. We'll discuss the need for belonging in more detail a little later on in the lesson. The next level is our self-esteem needs. And this is the need to appreciate ourselves and our worth. Here, we want to be appreciated and respected by others. Finally, at the top of the Hierarchy of needs is self-actualization, or the inherent drive to realize one's full potential or one's abilities in life. But because this is at the top of the hierarchy, it's harder to achieve because all of our other needs need to be satisfies first. I want you to do your best to order these types of needs into the hierarchy of needs. Now the answer won't always be clear, but it might be fun to discuss your reasoning on the forum with your peers. This will make for a great forum topic. We have water, having a satisfying and fulfilling career, self-confidence, earning a paycheck, and a happy and secure relationship. Determine where you think the needs will go on the hierarchy, and then place the letter in the corresponding box. So water would satisfy our physiological need. Earning a pay cheque would help give us safety and security. Having a happy and secure relationship would satisfy the love and belonging level of a hierarchy. Self-confidence would fulfill the esteem level of the hierarchy and finally having a satisfying fulfilling career would fulfill the self actualization level of the hierarchy. So let's take a step back and look at masters hierarchy of needs. It makes sense that we would need to have our physical needs met before ever considering realizing our full potential, so to recap we need our physiological needs met then we can move on to other safety and security needs. And once those two criteria are met we can move on to our loving and belonging needs. Once we have achieved love and belonging then we move up the hierarchy to our esteem needs. And then finally self-actualization, which is the very top of the pyramid. Let's take a deeper look at Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs, and that's the need to belong. Humans have a need for social contact and belonging, and this is both powerful and universal. Indeed, as we've said throughout the course, humans are social creatures and we need interaction. Perhaps remember the lesson on development with Terry Harlow and his research with the baby monkeys. Those monkeys needed contact comfort, and they chose among them the most resemble their own over the [UNKNOWN] mother, even though she had the food. Now, we too as humans have a need for others in order to thrive, and this need for social contact and belongingness is called the need for affiliation. Our need to belong is one of the strongest of the human needs. However, unfortunately, there are times when we're rejected. Rejection can lead to a variety of negative consequences, including loneliness, isolation, and even pain. [NOISE] Now this is a perfect time to bring up bullying, and the negative consequences of bullying. When a person's bullied, he or she is rejected and often ridiculed by others. Rejection can be overwhelming and actually cause pain for the person. Do you remember in the sensation and perception lesson when we talked about social pain activating the exact same part of the brain as physical pain? So when people say being rejected hurts, it really is painful. Some of the other problems associated with rejection are eating disorders, more health problems, depression, and, tragically, sometimes suicide. In addition to motivation for belonging, we also see as humans we have a motivation to excel, which is incredibly beneficial to the workplace. This is achievement motivation. Achievement motivation is a desire to do things well and to overcome obstacles. In general, when we succeed at something that's very difficult, we find it more meaningful. Then if we were to succeed at something that was easy, because if we succeed at something that's easy, then it doesn't really tell us much about our abilities. For example, you're most likely to derive more meaning from successfully finishing a half-marathon than you would feel for just walking a mile. Let's move on to talk about achievement in regards to motivation in the workplace. If you recall from lesson one when we discussed a different sub field of psychology, this is where the sub field of Industrial and Organizational psychology comes into play. I/o psychology studies motivation and behavior in the workplace. And yes as you can imagine employers want to know what motivates their employees. For example, I/O psychologists might ask, are employees more interested in pay, benefits or flexibility of working hours? So what do you think? Would you prefer a high paying job that you don't like? Or, would you prefer a low paying job that you actually enjoy? Now there's no right or wrong answer here because it's your personal opinion. Go to the forums and talk to your peers about it. See if you guys have the same opinions. These are some of the questions that I/O psychologists ask. In this part of the lesson, we're going to talk about models of motivation in the work place. The things we'll talk about are extrinsic motivation, intrinsic motivation and organizational support. Now, I want to take you on a little tour of Udacity. And I want you to tell me what incentives you see to motivate us. So let's go get started. Hi, welcome to your tour of Udacity. Let's get started. So here's our main office area. As you see, it's really open so we can all work together as a team. And luckily everybody here is really creative, and that allows us to come up with awesome ideas and make the creative classes that you guys love. Let's go to next place, this is the side of the office we come to when we need to get away from the hustle and bustle of the other side of the office we can relax on bean bags or on one of the couches and meet up with people and discuss really big ideas. This is the area where we all come to kind of distress and play different games like foosball and ping pong and again enjoy working with each other, here you can see we have a fully soft kitchen with all the drinks and all the snacks we could ever want and this is the area were we have lunch together as a team everyday for some co-worker bonding time. And we can even bring dogs to the office so we have puppies to play with Now, extrinsic motivation is motivation that comes from outside of the person. If you remember from the learning lesson, we talked about BF Skinner, who pioneered the study of operant conditioning. And industrial organizational psychologists have used the principles of operant conditioning very effectively. We find that extrinsic rewards can increase productivity, accuracy, and even quality. How might we use extrinsic motivation in the workplace in order to be an effecctive manager? Type your response in here. Perhaps you came up with some of the answers that we did. Money could be used as an extrinsic motivator. Perhaps free catered lunches. Praise is external motivator. Taking employees out on a fun outing, or perhaps prizes or trophies. All of these are extrensic rewards. We often use extrinsic rewards not only in the workplace, but also in our daily life. We see that extrinsic rewards can be used outside of the workplace as well, for example, we can use extrinsic rewards to get children to brush their teeth, do their homework, or even make their bed. This is no different than employers using rewards to increase worker productivity as well as accuracy. Although extrinsic rewards have been shown to be effective in the workplace, there are some circumstances where extrinsic rewards can have the opposite effect. How does this work? Let's say that you enjoy cooking, and you do so often. You're always trying out new recipes. If your mom starts to pay you for cooking, it turns out that you may start to cook in order to get paid. Rather than for pleasure. So what was once intrinsic enjoyment, your cooking, is no longer so because it has been rewarded by an external source, which is money. Now this brings us to the next area of study in motivation in the workplace, and that is intrinsic motivation. An intrinsic motivation comes from within the person, and it includes four elements. First we have challenge, and that is how much you enjoy the thrill and excitement of challenges. The second is enjoyment. And that is how much pleasure you receive from the process of doing a task. Mastery is our next term. And this is whether you gain a sense of accomplishment and pride in doing a difficult task. And lastly, we have autonomy, and this is whether you believe you are free to determine much of what you do, and how you do it. So intrinsic motivation comes from within the person. And we have four ways in which we discuss this. The last area we're going to talk about in motivation in the workplace is perceived organizational support. Perceived organizational support is an employees belief that their organization appreciates them and supports them in their contributions and their well being. Employees that feel that their employer actually cares about them and supports them feel less stressed and enjoy their jobs more. Than those, who feel that their employer doesn't care about them. If you were a manager, how do you think you can apply what you've learned to motivate your employees to do a good job? Give me at least two sentences on this. There's a number of things you can do, from simply congratulating your employees on doing a job, to thanking them for their hard work and devotion. Now, think about it. Have you ever had a job where you felt like your employer didn't value you or your contributions to the organization? Well, allot of us have and unfortunately you feel less valued and your less likely to be productive and engaged. On the other hand if you've had a job where you felt like your employer really did value you and your overall level of satisfaction, you're more likely to be a better employee, happy, more productive and more invested in the organization. So which type of motivation is best in the workplace? Organizational support, Intrinsic motivation, achievement motivation, or it depends? Select one. The answer is it depends. It really depends on the type of organization. There are many different types of businesses and organizations, and therefore, different types of incentives may work differently in each setting. Also, the value of extrinsic motivation, which isn't listed here can change across time. For example, younger people may be more motivated by a high paying hourly job, whereas those who are older may prefer a job with a good benefit plan over a higher salary. So, our intrinsic motivations are not fixed per say. Now, if you find this information interesting, you might pursue a career in industrial and organizational psychology. In addition to worker productivity, I/O psychologists also study behavioral-based safety in the workplace. Now, let's go back to Susan. Now that we've discussed some of the models of motivation, let's move on to the study of some of the things that motivate us, such as our motivation to eat. We can think of hunger as a homeostatic need. And we can look at this as having a feedback and a feed-forward signal. Let's start with a negative feedback signal. The negative feedback signal tells us when to stop an activity. And in regards to food, the signals are generated as the food passes through our mouth, stomach, and small intestine. One of the major negative feedback systems signals the release of the hormone, cholecystokinin. Or cck for short. From the stomach and intestine walls. One thing that cck does is reduce the pleasure from ingested food so that an animal will stop eating. There are also some specific chemical satiety signals released by eating particular types of food. However. That we may have a satiety signal for one type of food, it doesn't hold for all foods. Therefore, we see that we may be full for one type of food but not for another type of food. So, we may be sated for one type of food and therefore we turn to another type of food. Let's go to Greg for an example So think about these special occasions you really like to celebrate. New Years Eve, your birthday or just going to a nice restaurant with your friends. So your food comes along, you know, maybe turkey, mashed potatoes, gravey. You eat it up, it's very good and you get full. Okay then dessert comes along. You know apple pie, pecan pie, ice cream, whatever. And all of a sudden you have room for that, so what's going on is your brain has, sends different signals, for savory like the turkey and sweet like the pecan pie. So you maybe full for the savory stuff but you still have room for that sweet pecan pie. Thank you Greg. Now, as you may know, the rate at which we consume energy is known as metabolism. When our energy stores and blood sugar levels have been depleted, we have drives that tell us to replenish, and we do so by eating. Hunger has four biological components. And those are the stomach, blood, brain and hormones and neurochemicals. In addition to CCK, some other hormones suppress appetite where as others stimulate it. Among those that suppress appetite are leptin, peptide yy and insulin. Insulin has a very important effect on hunger and its produced by the pancreas. As we eat, our blood glucose levels rise, and insulin is produced. Insulin transports glucose out of the blood and into the cells for energy use. As a result of increases in blood glucose and insulin, hunger decreases. Now what is glucose? Glucose is a simple sugar in the blood, and it provides energy for the cells throughout the body, including the brain. Now, if we go for a long time without eating, our blood sugar drops, and in turn the hypothalamus, which monitors glucose levels, will signal the drive to obtain food. Thinking back to the homeostatic model for motivation, we see this example of the brain detecting a lack of glucose, and then signaling for us to obtain food. Some of the hormones that stimulate our appetite are neuropeptide Y, melanin, and ghrelin. For example, when we are hungry, neuropeptide Y is released from the hypothalamis. And that in turn causes us to be hungry. Similarly, ghrelin levels rise when we're hungry and fall when we are full. Another naturally occurring chemical that can increase our appetite are the endocannabinoids. This is one reason why marijuana is sometimes used medicinally, to stimulate appetite, when other medicines make people nauseous and unable to eat. On the flip side, research has shown that blocking the receptor sights for the endocannabinoids actually decreases eating and results in weight loss. Now, can you tell me which hormone transports glucose out of the blood stream and decreases hunger? Think about it for a moment and type your response here. The correct answer is insulin. In addition to insulin, what are two other hormones that decrease hunger? Did you say peptide yy and leptin? If so, good job, you got those correct. If not, you might want to go back and watch the video again. So let's recap. Chemicals tell us when to eat and when to stop eating. We also know that just because we're full of one food doesn't necessarily mean that we're full of all foods. For example, we might eat a piece of pie or have a bowl of ice cream after we're full from eating a cheeseburger. Now how we decide what we eat is really complicated and influenced by many things other than just hormones. So let's just take a closer look at that. There are particular regions of the brain that regulate hunger, and tell us when we're hungry, or when we're full. The most important region is the hypothalamus. In particular, there is one important part. The lower middle of the hypothalamus controls the sensation of feeling full. So in animal studies, when they lesion, or cut this part of the hypothalamus, the animal becomes obese. Because the signal for being full is broken. So the lower-middle portion of the hypothalamus controls the sensation of feeling full. On the other hand, the lateral area of the hypothalamus controls the sensation of being hungry. Again, in animal studies, lesions in this part of the hypothalamus. Leads animals to become very, very thin, because they don't know they're hungry. What we eat is clearly not just based on biological influence, but culture plays a factor as well. The psychology of what we eat has to do with external factors, such as the sight of food, the smell of food, and importantly, the culture in which we were raised. That is, when one person may find delicious, another person may find inedible. Children, for example, who are exposed to spicy foods early in life quickly develop a taste and even cravings for the spicy foods later in life. Likewise, people who were not exposed to spicy foods find them too overpowering for them. Similarly, brains and intestines are delicious in some cultures. Yet beef is disgusting, or even sacrilegious in others. In most cases, except for sweets, food preferences are acquired, and learned tastes. It's safe to say that food and cuisine are key traits of any culture, with each culture having it's own unique cuisine and food. Culture plays an important role in the foods to which we're exposed and therefore the foods that we eat. If you ever seen TV shows such as the Amazing Race or cooking competitions, you may have seen people cook foods that you normally wouldn't eat. For example, on one episode of the Amazing Race, the contestants had to eat frog Fallopian tubes. Now that was a delicacy for the people of that area, but it certainty wasn't so for the Americans. On cooking competition shows, I've seen people cook testicles, chicken feet, and even brains. Now again, some people may find that a delicacy and actually enjoy the flavor and taste, but many of us would not. However, if you found yourself in a starving or near-starving situation, the chances of you eating those types of food greatly increases. Now, we know that culture plays an important role in the types of food we eat. But did you know that culture also plays a role in our attitudes toward casual sex? We're going to talk about that next. I'm here with Dr Markie Blumer, who used to be my professor for Human Sexuality when I was in my undergraduate. And, I was also her teaching assistant for a semester. Can you tell us a little bit about your background? I am a licenced marriage and family therapist, I am also a licenced mental health counselor. I'm, I'm an approved supervisor with the American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy. I began teaching about human sexuality in 1998 as an assistant at the Northern Arizona University. Starting in the fall 2013, I will be an associate professor at the University of Wisconsin at the stout location. And that'll be in the human development family studies program and marriage and family therapy program. For the last four years, I've been an assistant professor at the University of Nevada Las Vegas. And my PhD is in human development and family studies with an emphasis in marriage and family therapy from Iowa State University. So what are the stages of the human sexual response? Yeah, great question, actually that depends on who stages we're talking about. So Helen Singer Kaplan came up with a three phase cycle of the human sexual response. Which included the desire phase, an arousal phase and then ended with an orgasm phase. Masters and Johnsons came up with a four stage model. So a little bit different than Kaplan's model. And their four stage model included an excitement phase, a plateau phase, an orgasm phase and a resolution phase. So really the biggest difference was the resolution phase. In other words, they though that there were something that happened after people reach a plateau or a peek of excitement through orgasm. And that was kind of this refractory period that people go through. Where their bodies go back to more of a normative state before arousal occurred. Both of these models are great from a western point of view. there's, there's nothing wrong with these models. They, they match human physiology in a pretty normative way. What's problematic about them however is not everybody Is situated to understand sexuality and sexual response cycles from a western point of view. In eastern cultures, there are kind of different ways of conceptualizing sexuality which would be through more like tantric practices. Which doesn't really have this rigid here are the phases of sexual response cycle that you must complete in order for it to be successful. So, really those practices are more like, you might be aroused and then you might kind of take a break and then you might become aroused again. and then you might engage in sexual activity with each other. But rather than having an orgasm, be say the goal for one person, it might just be a goal for one of the other people involved. One person might just might take their time and the other person might be orgasming multiple times. And maybe one partner never orgasms and, and that would be considered a great sexual encounter. So really it just depends on where you are on the globe. Like I said here in Western Culture we have kind of these two ways of thinking about sex. So, according to the western views of the sexual response, what comprises the three phase sexual response, and what comprises the four phase sexual response. Now what I want you to do is write the corresponding number in the appropriate box for each phase. So, for the three phase sexual response, you might write 1, 2, 3, or whatever the answer actually is. [INAUDIBLE] Same with phase four. You write a number in each one of these boxes. Now, some of the phases you might repeat and use in both. That's okay. Give it a try. For the three phase sexual response, created by Helen Singer Caplan, you start off with desire, so two, followed by arousal, four, and finally you reach orgasm, which is six. And with the four phase sexual response created by Masters and Johnson, you start off with excitement. Which is number three. Followed by plateau. Then you reach orgasm. And finally, there's a resolution. Which is number five. Part of the work I've done with couples revolves around kind of the sexual scripts, which are the sexual response cycles that I see couples come in with. And it's almost like they have this preconditioned idea that this is the story I'm supposed to have for sex and if it doesn't go this way, then there's something wrong. And so, I have to talk with him about, you know what, that's just the story that we have in the United States, mainly from this medical point of view. But, you can write your sexual script any way you want. So, it doesn't have to end in orgasm. It doesn't have to start out with this massive building up of desire and excitement. it can go any way that you want it to and that's what's really important as people need to understand that they really own their sexual response cycle. And they own their sexual script. And it really can be written and rewritten any way that's, that's comfortable for them. So we know that there's a difference in sexual response depending on the culture but do women and men have different orgasms. Even though a lot of people orgasms whether it be through self stimulation self love or partnered or partnered experiences, many people do orgasms. However, there are large percentages of people who do not. again a lot of times that does tend to be women who experience more difficulty orgaziming. On average, the orgasm, kind of experience is the shortest part of a sexual response cycle. Unless of course, you're, you know, a pig in which case, it's like thirty minutes long. But, humans are very short cycled for their orgasm but that really varies from person to person as well. So, for some people an orgasm might last like thirty seconds, for other people it could last a matter of minutes. and actually woman tend to have longer orgasms than men. or are capable of longer orgasms. Women, when they do orgasm are also able to have multiple orgasms pretty consecutively in a row pretty easily compared to their male counterpart. So, once a woman kind of figures out how to have an orgasm, she actually has more opportunity for longer orgasms and more of them in comparison to men. However in general, more women do struggle to kind of learn how to orgasm. And I say learn how to orgasm because one of the biggest differences is just is an, it's an anatomical difference, right. So men they have basically all of their equipment right in front of them on the outside, you know, their penis is right in front of them, their testicles is right in front of them. So it's, it's very easy to kind of self explore and figure it out what to do, right. With women, most of the equipment is internal. so it's very difficult to kind of figure out what, what your body's doing, what something feels like. I mean and there's a difference between a clitoral orgasm and a [INAUDIBLE] spot orgasm or a G-spot orgasm. And a lot of women, it takes a lot of exploration before they're really able to have an orgasm in either location. And a lot of the holdup for women is just that many societies, pretty much across the globe, many societies have put restrictions on women. social restrictions, moral restrictions, religious restrictions where they're, they're kind of sent this message that sex is something that they're not supposed to enjoy. And doesn't really, their needs really aren't all that important in terms of desire, arousal and orgasm. And so, it's very challenging to, for women not only because it's anatomical differences to orgasm because we have to learn. But they also have to tear down kind of this societal block or wall that has been created in their mind around not being able to orgasm. So, couple things I recommend for people when I see clients, especially women who are struggling to have an orgasm and they want to have an orgasm. It's okay if people don't want to orgasm too. That's fine. but what I recommend when they do is, a lot of self exploration, so getting to know their own body. And then a lot of, just cognitive behavioral therapies to work on the fact that it's totally normative and natural to have sexual feelings and to feel good when you're engaging in certain behaviors. Besides the self exploration and cognitive behavior therapy that Dr. Blumer spoke of, can you think of anything else that may help a person, man or woman, reach orgasm? Type your answer here. Fantasy maybe one of them. One study found that 93% of men and 86% of women engage in fantasy. Fantasy is certain, certainly a very common thing that everyone engages in. And when I'm talking about fantasy, it doesn't necessarily have to be erotic or sexual fantasy. a lot of people daydream or fantasize about multiple things throughout the day. So, maybe the perfect job they want or maybe like a certain house or maybe the latest, you know, iPhone or whatever the situation may be. And so, its completely natural that people might fantasize about sex or erotic touch or just liking someone and being with them. In fact, in some recent studies 93% of men and 86% of women reported that they do engage in, in fantasy. It can be really helpful for individuals to be engaging in fan, fantasy-type thoughts on their own as long as, again, they've got some cognitive kind of restructuring that they've done. If they have any walls or blockades around sex or sexuality. so that they aren't kind of beating themselves up later for fantasizing. So as long as they know that it's okay and they're comfortable doing that, then it's fine. Couples also can engage in fantasy together. So they can tell each other their fantasies, tell each other their desires. And it doesn't necessarily mean that they have to act on those as a couple or as individuals. Fantasy is, in it's definition, a fantasy. which often times is things we might not do or maybe that we have done and we're just thinking about in hindsight. and as long as it's done in a way that is healthy for the individual, healthy for the couple, then absolutely. It's totally natural normal healthy and nothing wrong with it. At what age is it possible for people to reach orgazam, men and women? That's a great question. So, I hear this question a lot. you know when, when can people orgasm, when can they kind of experience sexually, you know, positive feelings, And so it's really interesting is, there are images of infants in utero. Particularly male infants or infants with penises we don't really know their gender yet, but there are images of them in utero touching their penises, fondling themselves. So one of the things that the techs that look at ultrasounds in the medical field will tell you is that oftentimes. It's hard to identify male infants because their hands are usually between their legs so much in utero that they never actually are able to see the penis. And so, although we can't be certain because, certainly there is no way to get inside the mind of an infant or even really ask them any questions. There's pretty good literature to support that both babies that happen to be male and babies that happen to be female are experiencing sexual feelings, orgasmic type feelings when, when their touching their genitalia. Which is a totally natural normal thing. Even for small infants and toddlers to engage in. now are we talking about, you know, an orgasm where a male actually like ejaculates. Well, no, certainly not in infancy. that doesn't happen until males tend to be like 12, 13 years old. But if we're talking about orgasmic feelings, there's, there's actually, we don't really know exactly when that starts. It's, it's as young as the person you know, becomes curious about their own body and, and starts exploring, so Here's a quick question, is masturbation normal? Yes or no? Well, the answer's yes. Let's talk to Dr. Blemmer about that. So, is masturbation normal? So masturbation or self love, or self pleasuring, has a couple of different names yes it's, it's normal for people to have feelings of loving themself or touching themself. At least from like a biological point of view, totally normative. although there are rare exceptions to that of course. Some people's sexual orientation happens to be asexual. and they might not have any desire whatsoever to engage in self-love or self-touch, but on average across the globe, most humans engage in some sort of self-touch, unless the society, culture, religion. dictates otherwise and then they might not engage in that, but in general there are lots of reasons why people masturbate, masturbate. It relieves sexual tension. it provides a venue for self exploration it can be a shared experience so people might engage in mutual masturbation either where they masturbate each other or they might just engage in self touch in front of each other. and it can people physically relax so it can relieve just physical pressure that someone might have or daily stress. One of the things I, I really recommend for people though is they should be masturbating in a way that's congruent with their own beliefs. and so, if it's something that makes them feel uncomfortable, then, then they should, you know, back off and figure out another way to do things that might make them feel better. There are tons of techniques that people can use, from just using digital masturbation with their hands to toys to water to. you know, another partner so on and so forth. And so there's lots of different ways that people can masturbate, and they really just have to find one that, that is congruent with their own beliefs, and that they enjoy, and that's comfortable and healthy for them. So how can sexual behavior actually be used as a motivator? Yeah, so I, definitely, there are motivations that people have for having sex. there are, in the United States, there's three primary reasons for having sex. Or, kind of, the motivation behind having sex. the first is for traditional or reproductive reasons. About 30% of U.S. Americans really believe in this traditional reporductive framework. And what I mean by that is, they really think that the number one motivation for sex is to procreate, to have children. And typically that's within the confines of a, a monogamous relationship. typically one that's either domestic partnered or, or a marital relationship. So in terms of motivation about 30% of the time it has something to do with, with actual procreation and, and attempting to, to make children. The next big reason is typically a recreational reason or motivation about 25% of people in the U.S are having sex for those reason. and it does tend to be more men than women. and recreationally means that in said in it's simplest way, if it feels good, it doesn't hurt anybody then let's do it. and and like I said that's about a quarter of the people and typically more men than women. And the final big motivator for sex or reason behind sex is a relational point of view and that's actually become the most common reason or motivator for sex. It's about 45% of the people in the United States. And this is this idea that sex ideally should be accompanied with strong feelings, or affection for someone, but not necessarily for procreation, not really for procreation, and not really only in the confines of a monogamous or a partnered or A marital context and again, most people right now at least in the U.S view sex as being more of this relational viewpoint and that's the main motivation. So, I really like someone and I don't want to be married but I still want to be close with them and intimate with them. And so I'm going to have sex with them. That's, that's typically the most common motivation right now is really this kind of affectional or feeling based motivation for sex. So is there anything else people need to know about human sexuality? Well, I think it's helpful for people to understand a couple of things around sexuality, whether it's their motivations or a social component to sexuality and that is, what I always tell my students is that if you can't talk about sex, you probably shouldn't be having sex. And so if people can't engage in some sort of basic dialogue about their sexual wants, needs, experiences past practices, future practices, health, if there's a history of sexually transmitted infection or disease. If you can't have conversations about sex, you probably don't have much business engaging in it, at least not with someone other than yourself. So, that's really the biggest point that I think people, regardless of the lesson that we're giving them, that's really the biggest lesson that they need to know around, human sexuality. So now we're going to switch gears a little bit. We're going to start talking about emotion. Let's go to Greg so he can introduce the topic. So motives are the drive or reason for doing what we do and emotion is the feeling of good or bad about our experience. So as it turns out emotions can be motivating and motivations can be emotional. So for instance, when you're happy or proud that's telling you you're doing the right thing, keep it up. When you're afraid, that's telling you, you're in danger, get out of the situation. Or, if you have a really great meal, that brings pleasure, or happiness. And then, when you're disgusted, or angry, there's no way for you to be sexually aroused. So as you can see from these simple examples, emotion and motivation can be closely connected to one another. As we'll see later on in the lesson, this is often because the brain structures involved in motivation and emotion are often nearby. But for now, let's just move on to the question, what is emotion? Psychologists make a distinction between three different types of affective experiences. We should first state that the word affect, is in an umbrella term used to cover all emotional experiences, including emotions, moods, and affective states. Let's start with emotions. Emotions are brief, sudden changes in our conscious experience and body that are responses to personally meaningful situations. We feel emotion about very specific situations. Such as when we fail an exam, get an A on an exam, break up with our significant other, or have something stolen from us. Emotions are very short lived, typically lasting no more than 30 seconds to 1 minute. At most. They focus our attention and guide our memory, perception, and decision making. Think about how you learn if you're really angry or depressed, or the kind of buying decisions you make when you're really happy, compared to when you're really sad. The actual experience of anger, disgust, happiness, or fear, for example, usually last only a short period of time. They can lead to other emotions, though. For example, sometimes we get angry at ourselves for feel jealous or embarrassed. Which situation is least likely to create an emotional response in a person? Watching a football game that one doesn't care about? Watching a football game when one's favorite team is playing? Getting married? Having a loved one die? Select the one that's least likely to create an emotional response. Should be obvious, that this first one, is the least likely to create an emotional response. Why? Because it's the only one that doesn't touch on something important to a person. We only experience emotion, when our personal goals and values are involved. Moods do sometime effect emotion, making certain emotions more likely than others. For instance, when you're in a good mood, you experience happiness or giddiness more easily, and anger and sadness less easily. How do you think mood and emotion might be different. Give me at least one sentence in response to this question. Don't worry if you don't know. Just take a minute or two and think about it. Moods are longer lasting effective experiences. Let's look at them in a little more detail. So as I said moods are longer lasting affective experiences and usually are not in response to very specific situations. Moods can last minutes or hours and occasionally even longer and as for the cause of moods, as compared to emotion, the cause is vague and not clear. We often just find ourselves in a good mood or in a bad mood and we don't really know why. And last but not least, we have affective traits. These are enduring parts of our personality that permanently affect how likely we are to experience particular emotions. Some people are hostile, for example, and they experience anger and aggression more easily than less hostile people. Other people have anxious personalities, and they experience fear and anxiety more easily than most people. So we know that emotions are complex. And we have a wide range of emotions. Such as things like anxiety, joy or even awe. Now, I want you to take a second and try to list seven types of emotions. Do that here. So now let's look at some of the basic emotions, and see if they match your list. When I say basic emotions, I mean emotions that are shared by all humans in all cultures, no matter where you are in the world. Then we have other emotions that are more unique to the human condition. These are called self-conscious emotions. Basic emotions are important for life tasks, such as protecting ourselves from danger or achieving a goal. The basic emotions are fear, discussed, anger, happiness, sadness, contempt, and surprised. Notice that all of these, except happiness and arguably sometimes surprise, are negative emotions. That is they involve unpleasant subjective feelings. There're many distinct negative emotions. For example, anger is very different from disgust, which is very different from fear or sadness. They all involve different feelings and come from different things. On the other hand, happiness is happiness and it's only just a little bit different from joy. The other set of emotions, the self conscious emotions occur when we live up to or don't live up to the expectations we set ourselves. The expectations of others or the rules set by society. These emotions require us to be able to reflect on our own behaviors. The self-conscious emotions are shame, guilt, humiliation, embarrassment and pride. It's important to note, that we feel pride when we've accomplished something really important in our lives. Classic gesture of pride, is when we, raise our hands and clinch our fist, as we see when, athletes have won a competition. So pride comes in two distinct flavors. Authentic, and self inflated. So an authentic pride happens when we, accomplish something that's really important but also very difficult. Like run a marathon. Get an A on a very difficult exam or do well at work. Self inflated pride however, occurs just because we are superior to other people or feel superior. So for instance, we might drive a fancy car, have expensive clothes. So there's a superiority that occurs in self-inflated pride that isn't there in authentic pride. People sometimes talk about the head and heart, that is, cognition and emotion, as being two different things. Some people are rational and some people are emotional. Now, although there might be some value in separating thought and emotion, we find that emotions can be very helpful for us, and adaptive. They can be helpful when we need to solve problems, and they can help us adapt to an environment. Let's take fear for example. How might fear help us adapt to our environment? Meaning how would fear be a useful emotion for us to have? Give me at least one sentence on this. There's a number of reasons why fear can be useful. One is it's an important response to danger. Without fear you would never survive childhood. You wouldn't be able to tell the difference between what's deadly and what's harmless. In fact, emotions exist in animals due to evolutionary pressure. Our ancestors who used emotions to help them solve problems of survival were more likely to survive and pass their genes on. But let's take a closer look of what emotions involve. Emotions involve four different response systems, our thought and appraisal, our physiology, our expression and our subjective feelings. So let's start with thought and appraisal, this is necessary for all emotions. We have to perceive an event as somehow important in order to experience emotion, that is we have to appraise the event as in some way harmful or beneficial to our well-being. Benefits to our well-being make us happy, and harm makes us upset, depending on what's harmful. For example, insult makes us angry, loss makes us sad, and a threat makes us afraid. But there's also the threat of losing a sexual partner, which can make us jealous. Now these are perceptions. They don't actually have to be accurate. Misunderstandings, cause the exact same emotional reaction, as an accurate perception. So whether we're really losing our sexual partner, doesn't necessarily matter, as much as the perception, of if it's happening, or could happen. When we experience different emotions, different parts of our body respond differently. Many of the bodily systems involve the autonomic nervous system, which includes a sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems. As you may recall from lesson three, the sympathetic nervous system is the arousal system. It readies the body for action, whereas the parasympathetic nervous system brings the levels of arousal levels down so we can calm down. Basic survival and protection experiences activate the sympathetic nervous system to either fight or flight, meaning flee. Different emotions have their own pattern of arousal. Anger, for instance, increases heart rate and skin temperature, whereas sadness decreases both. And fear increases heart rate somewhat and sweating. And positive emotions generally activate the parasympathetic nervous system, leading to a sense of calm or relaxation. Different emotions are expressed differently on the face and in our voice. Each emotion has its own unique combination of facial muscles and voice changes often involving pitch. Let's take fear for example. This involves the eyebrows being lifted and pulled together and the upper eyelids are also lifted. And the lips are stretched and pulled apart. Anger, on the other hand, the eyebrows are lowered and pulled together. The eye lids are tightened and the lips are thinned and pressed together. One interesting application of analyzing facial expressions of emotion. Is being able to distinguish which emotion is being expressed based strictly on muscle movements. We know, or we think we know what someone's feeling, just by their face. They tell us when they're sad, angry, disgusted or happy just with their face. And as it turns out, sometimes we can be fooled. A happy face is not always a genuinely happy face. There are in fact differences in the muscle movements of a true smile, and a social smile, or a fake smile. Look at these two photos. Which one do you think is showing a real smile, and which one do you think is showing a fake smile? Select one. The one on the left is the real smile. We know this because the muscles around the eyes are slightly more contracted. Real enjoyment, so a real smile, involves the eyes and not just the mouth, as you see here. So today we're with Dr., Erika Rosenberg. And she's an expert in the psychology of emotion and facial expression of emotion. So Erika, can you tell us something about how you got into this field of study? It's kind of interesting because it's not something I thought I would do when I was a kid. That I would study facial expressions of emotion. But if you look at my, my baby pictures, it might have predicted this. But, I was interested in the effects of emotions on health. in, in general, I was interested in stress and health, I went to the University of California San Francisco in their Health Psychology program to get my PhD. After my first year, I met Paul Ekman who was a professor there. And I found out he had really developed this field, of the scientific study of facial expressions of emotions. So, that's how I started working on it. I saw the face as a tool, to learn, to measure emotion. >From a purely research point of view. But, once I got into it, it led to this whole series of fascinating applications for studying the face. Well, can you tell us something about, what was some of the groundbreaking work that was done early on? Right, right, right. I mean, it's interest in the face in studying emotion actually goes pretty far back. It started in the nineteenth century when Charles Darwin, published a book, you know, in 1872, called The Expressions of the Emotions in Man and Animals. Where he, he had all these wonderful drawings, and photographs, of animals, and humans. A lot of the pictures were of his kids, making different emotions faces, and he was trying to make the argument that there's fundamental about how emotion is shown. Not just in humans but in a variety of animal species. That is, sort of inborn inate. And he had, he did very informal research methods of having people all over the world send him pictures from their journeys or drawings at the time, and saying, if you show these pictures to people, do they recognize them as the same ones we do. And his anecdotal evidence We're pretty consistent that there was a small set of emotions that are conveyed with certain facial actions that's consistent for all humans. All over the world. All over the world. And his research methods were not real precise. And in the early 20th century, this idea of things being in born, was not very popular because behaviorism was just getting going. And it took until The, the 1960s, actually when Ekman and Friesen did their pioneering work. Not just to other industrialized nations, because they'd found some agreement consistent with Darwin's, in industrialized countries. But they decided, if you really want to find out if something's innate, not learned, then you have to go to cultures where they're not sharing the kind of information that we share in industrialized nations. So he went with an anthropologist friend to Papua New Guinea, which at that time, no longer, was a preliterate culture. They didn't have exposure to any western films or whatever. And, Ekman and Friesen showed members of two different tribes there, some of the photographs they'd used of certain poses of facial expression of emotion, but most of those people were, you know, European-American looking. So they also gathered photos from the New Guineans themselves, and used a variety of different methodologies. And surprised both Eckman because he didn't expect to find this, and the scientific community that there were about five or six different emotions for which the facial configurations were consistency recognized the same. Both in you know, at the time, Eckman was in Berklely. Berkely, California. And of Papua New Guinea. So that seemed to speak very powerfully to the idea that there were universal facial expressions of emotions. But this was a small set. So, we're talking about anger, fear, disgust, happiness, sadness and surprise, about six emotions. To model these universal expressions, I'm going to need to take my glasses off. Now the important thing to remember is that these are prototypes so like any prototype this is sort of like a classic just like a, an apple's a classic fruit and there's other fruits that are not you know as typical. This is sort of the prototypical example of each of these emotions that I'm going to show you. So I'll start with anger. Anger the brows are lowered, the upper eyelid is lifted, the lower eyelid is tense, and the lips are pressed together. So I can't talk while I do that so I'll do this. That's anger. [LAUGH] This is disgust. A key sign of disgust is the wrinkling of the nose. Fear. Happiness. Sadness. And surprise. And this is an emotion that later work has suggested is likely to be universal or at least has some good cross cultural agreement, and that's the emotion of content. Which is the only of the set of universals that is only, really, a unilateral or asymmetrical expression. That's contempt. So. But contempt wasn't one of the emotions they used in the early word. So, as Dr.Rosenberg just described, it was Charles Darwin who first, conducted research on emotion expression. He argued that emotions were expressed similarly in humans, and in even non-human animals sometimes. And this is the idea of universality. Emotions are universally expressed, in similar ways, all over the world. So a smile, for instance, is a smile regardless of who expresses it. But Darwin's work was not systematic. So in the 1960's, Paul Ekman and his colleague Wallace Friesen took up Darwin's work. And became more systematic and more scientific. They conducted research on universality in western cultures, and found universality. That is, people expressed emotions very much the same way, and interpreted them very much the same way. But this was just in the west. It wasn't a true test of universality. So, in the late 1960s, Paul Ekman and an anthropologist went to Papua New Guinea to conduct research. And they went to Papua New Guinea because it was a preliterate culture that had no contact whatsoever at that time to the west. And he found evidence for universality, anger, disgust, fear, happiness, sadness and surprise. And later on, he and his colleagues, found universal evidence for contempt. So, now that you've heard about some of this research, what applications can you think for this research on the face and emotion? That is, who could use this research and how? Please write your answer in this box. So there's a lot of possible outcomes to this research. But some of the impacts that it had was to create the psychology of emotion as well as the science of facial expression. But we're now going to go back to Dr.Rosenberg for a little more details on some of the applications of this research. Well, one of the most direct effects of this universality finding was, it really opened up research on emotion in the face, and emotion more generally. Because for much of the 20th century, people had not studied emotion because it was considered something inherently subjective. Right. That you could not measure. And is, and if you think about what's been going on in psychology during this time, behaviorism, everything has to be observable. How could you study something as private as an, as an emotion? This finding on the face, suddenly suggested, which earlier research and psychology had not suggested, that there was reliable information about emotion in an observable immortality/g, in the face. So, it became clear that we could study emotions from the outside not just. Right. From the inside. And in order to kind of, potentatiate this work, make it more likely, Eckman and Freezen developed a measurement tool to enable the objective studying of facial feature from the outside. They developed. The Facial Action Coding System, the acronym for that is FACS, or FACS. Which is an elaborate, detailed observational system. Observational meaning it relies on human observation, to code all observable facial movement. Without saying, what it is, so it's purely descriptive. And that really opened up an enormous amount of opportunity in emotion research to set emotional behavior objectively to do it without drawing people's attention to it. You know, because you could video record and then code the behavior later. Each emotional expression has a unique pattern of facial. Right, but it's important to understand that facts is not just for emotion. Facts is for describing facial movement. You can see which actions occur together to describe any expression on the face. So, I'm going to give another little demonstration right now. Let me back up. FACS, describes all facial muscle actions in terms of arbitrary action units. So it separates all facial behavior in terms of what each muscle does. So if I lift the inner corner of the eyebrow. That's one action. Each action has an arbitrary numeric code. So this is action unit one. This is two. This is four. This is five. This is six. I could go through the whole face. There are 44 different action units to describe. The individual components of facial action, and then you can, see whatever the face does and describe it in terms of these components. So, if I take one of the, emotion expressions that I modeled earlier, like anger. This has the brow lower, which is actually unit four. Lifting the upper eyelid is action unit five, tightening the lower eyelid is seven, pressing the lips together and pushing the chin up is 17 and 24 so we have a 4, 5, 7,17 and 24, so you can describe any facial action. Right. And one of the interesting applications of the facial action code in system has been in computer animation. In fact its become the gold standard in on the visual effects industry for developing virtual beings, virtual actors you know it was used in Avatar, it was used in, in Harry Porter was used in, in any animated creature they use the action units. Yeah. As the basis for animating our faces. So, in fact, yeah, that leads to my next question, which is can you tell us something about how you've applied FACS or Facial Action Coding Systems in your own work? It's been really interesting because my original intent was to study emotion, and that's why I got into studying the face. So, I've applied FACS to my own research on emotion where I've looked at things like the role of anger and heart disease but that was my dissertation research. I've also looked at the relationship between facial expression and people's reports of emotional experience. And how emotions change as a function of more recently meditation training. So that's in my research but as a result of becoming expert in facts. I've learned that a lot of people are interested in this measurement tool for other reasons. So I've trained animators. Like people who do visual effects animation. I worked on the television show "Lie to Me" which was on from 2009 to 2011 on FOX. And this was a drama based on, Really, Paul Eckman's career. So that the lead character in that, was a deception detection expert. And the field of deception detection depends a lot on facial movement detection. So I was a scientifical consultant on that show, reading scripts, coaching the actors, etcetera. So it's really run the gamut it from basic research to something really applied, like in the entertainment industry. And, sort of a, a continuous thing throughout all of those is, is facts, the facial measurement and, and the kinds of people I've trained in that, in that. Right. Yeah. Great. Well thank you, I hope you've enjoyed this, and also see how psychology can applied in a lot of different areas and ways that you may not have expected. So as Doctor Rosenberg just discussed there were lot of applications of Ekman's Research. First it demonstrated that emotion can be studied reliably and objectively through the face. And secondly it led directly to the development of the Facial Action Coding System, anatomically based analysis of the human face. And then lastly, FACS has been applied in many different settings, from film animators to the development of a TV show called Lie to Me. Which was based on Ekman's research But it's also been used very widely by emotion researchers themselves as well as people who study deception. So as you can see here, there's many applications of emotion research. And now, we're going to go to Lauren who's going to ask you another question about emotion and facial expression. I have a question for you. Do you think that your facial expressions can actually change the way you feel? Yes or no. Select one. Well, the answer is yes. Let's talk a little more about this. One really awesome take away message about facial expressions is that they don't only express emotions, they can actually amplify and regulate emotions. This is through what's called the facial feedback effect. This is the tendency for facial expressions and the muscle activations that cause them to actually produce a corresponding feeling, such as happiness or anger. Now, I want you to try something. Grab a pen. If you don't have one, press pause and get one. And take this pen and put it between your teeth, like this. Doing this activates the muscles that make you smile. Then, I want you to grab the pen again and hold it between your lips, like this. Doing that activates the muscles that make you frown. If I had you watch a video with a pen between your teeth like this to activate a smile, and then watch another video with a pen between your teeth like this to make you frown, do you think that would actually affect how amusing you thought the video was. Yes or no. Well, the answer is yes, it actually does. Let's talk about that a little more. Before I get started I want you to smile. Are you smiling? Okay, keep smiling. Many researchers have found the benefits of the facial feedback effect. For example, one group of researchers that did an experiment similar to the one we just did with the pen in making people smile, found that participants who had the pen in their teeth forcing them to smile. Found a cartoon to be more amusing, than participants who are frowning. I find this research to truly be amazing, and can actually benefit you in your everyday life. Because our face is so much more than just a tool to express emotion. It can actually encourage and promote feelings. For example, one group of researchers found that patients reported feeling better after receiving Botox injections in their eyebrow to paralyze the frowning muscles. After only two months, nine out of ten patients said that they were no longer depressed and felt better. This stuff is truly amazing. So, did you keep smiling during that video? Yes or no, select one. Well, I hope you kept smiling during that video. Whether or not you did or you didn't, try to smile more often and definitely try to smile when you're watching these videos. It might make you have a better feeling about psychology. So, what's the moral of this story? Get botox. Keep smiling as often as you can, even if you're not happy, try to smile. Frown, you'll look tougher and feel better. Or nothing, let's move on. Select one. So the moral of the story is to keep smiling, always try to smile, it might actually make you happier and really benefit your well being. This is the only time I am going to ever assign homework, smile ten minutes a day and make an effort to smile, there is no due date or grade on this, you get to grade yourself. I just want you guys to be happy. And I think this is the way that can help you be happy. Now, let's go back to Greg for another way to express emotion. So, thanks Lauren. So, you know, another way in which we express emotion is through our voice. As it turns out, our voice is harder to control than our face. People can lie with their face more easily, because it's under voluntary control. But our voice is regulated by the autonomic nervous system. And remember the autonomic nervous system, we don't control. So, it's harder to manipulate. And for instance, we also have pitch changes with our voice. And pitch changes might happen when we have voice cracks, when we're nervous or when we cry. So, two good examples of recognize an emotion in the voice, are with young children, and when people are speaking foreign languages. So, for instance, in young children. They may not understand the words, but they clearly understand the emotional tone. So, for instance, if I parent says, oh, isn't that sweet versus no. The child may not understand those words, but clearly understands the emotional tone. Thanks Greg. Our emotion involves changes in the brain as well as the body. There are particular brain regions that are involved in the experience and expression of emotion. More than any other brain structure, the amygdala is active in controlling emotional experience, especially fear. It's been shown that people who have damage to the amygdala, don't actually show fear. Relatedly, psychopaths, people who are cold and remorseless individuals, who deceive and lie their way through life, often have an abnormally small malfunctioning amygdala. In addition, some violent criminals have been show to have tumors on their amygdala. The Amygdala is also involved in recognizing fear in other people, based on their facial expressions, but not other emotions. In addition, it's important to note, the left prefrontal cortex is most active when experiencing positive emotions, such as joy or happiness. However on the other hand, the right prefrontal cortex is most active when we experience negative emotions, such as fear or sadness. And when we experience pleasure, the hypothalamus is active. As we've talked about, emotions are involved in many different systems in our brain and body. But did you know that culture also shapes emotion. One of the most important ways in which culture shapes emotion is in how we learn when it's appropriate to express different emotions. Different cultures have different rules for when it's okay to express certain emotions. These are called display rules. Have you seen any differences between cultures and how they express emotion? If so, what are they? There are a number of them. For example, some cultures are really expressive with their emotions. And on the other hand, some cultures are more reserved and less expressive with their emotions. Let's go to Greg, who has specific examples of how culture can influence when it's okay to express different emotions. So one classic study on display rules, we had students in Japan and in the U.S being shown medical procedure films. And these were really disgusting films. Arms being amputated, burn graphs and so on. Now, as it turns out they saw the films in one of two different conditions though. Either alone or in the presence of an authority figure. Now, in the US, it didn't matter whether the students saw the film alone or in the presence of an authority figure, the students showed real signs of disgust in either condition. But in Japan, it was only when they saw the film alone did the students show the disgust face. Because in Japan there's a rule, a cultural norm that prohibits disgust expressions in the presence of an authority figure. So instead of that they mask that disgust with a smile. Interestingly these smiles were not genuine smiles because they didn't involve the eyes. So this is a good example of how culture influences and dictates when it's okay to express which emotion. So what about gender and emotion? Of course, the stereotype is that women are more emotional than men. question is, is there any evidence for this stereotype? Well, yes and no. So as it turns out, men and women express emotion very similarly, although women do in fact smile a little bit more. But women do seem to have an advantage in two areas. First, when talking about emotion, they're more precise than that. Men seem to be a little bit more vague. And secondly, women are better at reading emotion on people's faces and hearing it in their voices. So in this lesson we've discussed some very important ideas about motivation and emotion. So in motivation we've seen how needs states lead to drive and then those drives lead to motivated behaviors. We've also discussed how these could be arranged in hierarchy from the most basic, like physiological and safety needs. All the way up to higher level needs of self-esteem and self-actuaization. We've also talked about incentives, and how incentives are important rewards for doing things well. We've talked about two basic needs. Sex, and hunger. And sex is about survival of the species, hunger is about survival of the individual. And with sex we've seen, for instance, the brain system that regulates it is the hypothalamus. And the hormones involved in regulating sexual behavior are mostly testosterone. Likewise, with hunger we've seen how the brain, again the hypothalamus, regulates hunger as well as the blood, glucose levels and then finally, again, hormones. But this time, leptin, ghrelin, and insulin, for example. And then we've also seen how culture very much shapes what we eat. And we call that cuisine. So we've also talked about emotion. And emotions are experienced when we think of something as both meaningful and harmful or beneficial to our well being. In another words, how we praise events shape the emotions we experience. So for instance, if we think something has been lost we might experience the emotion of sadness. If we think something is a threat to us, we might experience the emotion of either fear or anger. Emotions are accompanied by changes in our physiology, in our expression. And in our feeling states. Now emotions and moods, are not the same. Emotions are a result from specific events, and they tend to be very short, in duration. Moods, on the other hand are often come about from something very vague, and they're much more longer lasting. And then affective traits are personality dispositions. So some people are more likely to experience anger, and sadness, or anxiety, for instance. And then, lastly we've talked about how the stereotypes of men and women being different in emotion are not really all that true. A lot of the time, men and women in fact express emotion very much the same way. We did see however, that women are better at talking about emotion precisely and also reading emotion on people's faces and in their voices. When I say stress I know you know what I'm talking about. Everyday we hear people talk about how stressful different things are, and the fact is we live in a stressful world. That's why this lesson is so important and relevant to your everyday life. It's important to understand what stress is and how to manage our stress levels, because of the psychological and physiological fact stress has on us. And we're going to break this lesson into three main chunks. First, we'll talk about what stresses psychologically and the physiological effects it has on us. Then we'll talk about different ways to deal with stress which is what we called coping. And, at the end, we'll talk about how stress and coping affect our health. So, what exactly is stress? You know, if you had to guess, what is stress? Is it a reaction to an event or situation? Is it an emotional response to an event or situation? Is it a physiological response that happens when exposed to an event or situation? Or, is it all of the above. Select one, take your best guess. Don't worry if you get it wrong. The correct answer is, all of the above. We define stress as the response to a situation that a person perceives to be overwhelming in that the person does not think he or she can meet the demands of the situation. The interesting thing to note here, this is the perceived inability to meet the demand of the situation facing them. For example, perhaps you have a ten page paper due in two days. In addition, you have to work nights, and you have a test the same day the paper is due. For some people, they may perceive this to be way too much for them to handle, and feel that they're unable to meet the demands of getting the paper done, studying for the test, and going to work. Thus, the person in this situation is experiencing stress. This is true for having projects due at work or also having to take care of household or family responsibilities. Psychologists look at stress with two different vantage points. Stress as a stimulus and stress as a response. First, we have stress as a stimulus. This looks at stress as the result of a particular stimulus. Here we're saying that stress is the result of a stressor. In other words, an event that triggers stress. In the example we discussed earlier, the stressor could be the ten page paper that needs to be written. Another example would be writing a check that you realize that you don't have the money in your bank account to cover, or getting in an argument with your roommate, or friend. Any of those things could be stressors. The idea here, is that a situation causes stress. The other advantage point from which psychologists use stress is stress as a response. Here psychologists look at the physiological changes or reactions that happen when we encounter a stressful situation. Think of this as what's happening inside of your body when we're stressed. Here, we'll see things that happen in a body when we experience acute stress, as well as chronic long term exposure to stress. Stress as a stimulus looks at what causes the stress and stress as a response looks at how the body responds to stress, when we're stressed. But let's go to Susan to start with examining stress as a stimulus. So we all know that we encounter stressful situations throughout the day, week, and even our lifetime. In fact, throughout one day we may experience different levels of stress. For example, perhaps you oversleep and you're going to be late for work. Or you're stuck in traffic and you're going to be late for an exam. Even worrying about a sick pet can cause stress. You might find it interesting to know however that not all stressful events are threatening or bad or frightening. In fact some events that are supposed to be pleasurable or fun can also produce stress. To that end in the 1960s two psychologists invented a scale called the social readjustment rating scale. And we're going to go back to Lauren to look a little bit more closely at that scale. The social readjustment rating scale looked at different types of life events that could be considered stressers. Each event could be scored on a range from 10 to 100, depending on how stressful it was. At the top of the list, we see death of a spouse being the most stressful life event. At the bottom of the list with a rating of 11, we see really minor legal violations. And with a rating of 12 there's Christmas. So. here we see that holidays are even on the scale of stressful life events, although they aren't necessarily bad things. So, this shows that even positive things can be stressful. Have you ever the phrase, I need a vacation from my vacation? That's just another example to show that stress is not just associated with uncomfortable or unwanted things like divorce or death of a spouse. It's also associated what what we consider to be positive or fun events, like vacations or holidays. I want you to try this. I'm going to give you a list of life events and I want you to place them on the number line according to the amount of stress you think they cause. So we have death of a close family member, vacation, retirement, marriage, begin or end school, death of a close friend, divorce and pregnancy. Each of these correspond to one of these numbers on the scale. Where do you think they go? Put the appropriate letter under the appropriate number on the scale. Don't worry if you get this wrong. I had a few people try this, and almost everybody came up with different ratings. according to the social readjustment scale, death of a close family member would have the rating of 63, vacation would have the rating of 13, retirement is given a rating of 45, marriage is given a rating of 50. When you begin or end school, that's given a rating of 26. The death of a close friend is given the rating 37, divorce is a 73, and that leaves pregnancy as 40 on this scale of stress. So, the key here is that we all interpret stress differently. But according to the social readjustment rating scale, this is how they access stressful life events. And don't forget the positive things such as marriage or retirement can really be stressful. Although this scale can be useful for helping determining situations that may be stressful, it's important to know that we can also experience many small hassles throughout the day, and that can lead to stress. So the accumulation of minor irritations, such as waking up late for work, getting stuck in traffic, doing poorly on a test or even your significant other not calling you back. All those things can add up and the result is stress. However, it's important to note that what you may find stressful, I may not. Therefore, stress is what we call an individual response. The important thing to remember here is that it's the person's perceived ability to meet the demands of the situation. That determine whether or not it's stressful. For example, what you may find stressful, I may not. Now, this skill is used for, but it doesn't tell us everything about every type of stressful situation. In addition there are some items that are a bit outdated. For example, one item says, wife begins or stops working. Nothing about a husband working, or a partner working, just a wife. Now, this leads us to the second way to look at stress, and that is stress as a response. When we see that everybody handles stress differently, we're talking about how does that person handle stress, both psychologically, as well as physiologically. Now we're going to go to Lauren, and look at the psychological vantage point of how people handle stress. Let's start with an example. Let's say your in the shower and as your turning the shower handle off and the water stops, the shower handle breaks off. Now you immediately assess what this event means to you. You might become very stressed out when you realize that your going to have to call a plumber, that's going to be expensive, your going to have to make time to meet the plumber, your going to have to clean your apartment to make it presentable, you had to find a place to put your cat, so the cat doesn't attack the plumber, when the plumber comes in. And the list goes on, and on, and on, about what stress results just from breaking off your shower handle. This was the primary appraisal, you quickly assessed what happened and your emotional response to it, which most certainly would have been a negative emotional response, because you're stressed about everything you have to do, just to fix the shower handle. However, when this actually did happen to me, I stopped, took a second to think about it, and my stress level actually decreased. First, I thought, this is a great opportunity to get a new shower handle and new shower head. Second, I thought, how lucky I was the shower handle didn't break off when the water was still running, because I don't know how to turn the water off in my apartment. So, I would've just been standing there with a broken shower handle in my hand, and the water just running, I wouldn't have known what to do. Third, I thought that I needed to clean my apartment anyway, so this is a great opportunity to make it nice and presentable. When we encounter a stressful event there are two ways we can assess the event. The first is called Primary Appraisal. Here we're talking about a quick assessment of the meaning of a given environmental event for an individual. For example you may become very stressed about the fact that your shower's broken and you have to call somebody to get it fixed. And everything that it's going to take to get the shower fixed, planning someone to fix it, having to pay for it cleaning up the house so someone can come in. These things are really stressful. So that might be the first reaction or assessment of what the situation means to you. So the shower handle broke, so that means you're going to have to do all of this other stuff just to fix it. So, this was an example of primary appraisal, our first reaction or assessment of a situation and what it means to us. Now, it's important to note, if we appraise the situation as being contrary to our well-being, then it will produce a negative emotion and the negative emotion can cause stress. Going back to the shower handle example, the stress of having to do all the things I mentioned, such as getting a plumber, cleaning, paying for the plumber, and all of those things, which can result in a negative emotional response, but how else do you think I could have responded to the stressful broken shower handle event. Type your response here. Now there are a number of ways I could have responded to this event, but this leads us to secondary appraisal. Let's discuss that now. So, we also find that people engage in secondary appraisal. This is when we find ourselves in a stressful situation, and we try to reassess the situation to see what we can do to lessen the negative effect. Meaning, how are we going to solve the problem? So, how do we make the unpleasant feeling go away? Well, it's secondary appraisal that helps us to cope with the stressful event. So going back to the shower handle example, what do you think secondary appraisal would look like in this situation? Well, I can tell you from first hand experience. When the shower handle broke off in my hand, I had a really stressful response, thinking about everything I had to do to have someone come in and fix it. But then, when I took a step back and looked at the bright side, I realized just how lucky I was that the shower handle didn't come off when I had soapy hair. I can get new shower fixtures, and I have a reason to make time to clean my apartment. Now, this may sound like a mundane example but I think it nicely shows, how different people respond differently to stressful situations. And how engaging in secondary appraisal, can help to alleviate some of the negative emotional responses we experience from primary appraisal. So, let's recap this section really quick. We can be exposed to stressors, and they can be both pleasant and unpleasant. Like a vactions or a marriage, or death of a loved one. And both stressors can produce negative emotional responses. And sometimes, these negative emotional responses can be difficult to control. And when we encounter a stressful situation, we engage in primary appraisal, which is our first reaction or assessment of a situation. However, upon experiencing a negative emotional response produced by the stressful event, we can also engage in secondary appraisal. Secondary appraisal is using our self assessment and looking at the resources available to help us cope with this stressful event. By engaging in secondary appraisal, we may be able to reduce the level of negative emotions that we experience. So, in the shower handle example I showed you, it nicely demonstrates how I perceive the primary event as very, very stressful. But upon my secondary appraisal, I was able to lower my stress levels, because I realized how happy I was that the handle didn't break off while the water was still running. I knew I really lucked out with that one. I also realized the things I needed to do to make the problem go away, such as calling the plumber. And this a way of coping with the situation. So, this again demonstrates that it's a person's perceived ability to deal with a stressful event or stressor that results in a negative emotional response to stress. If however, I was a handy plumber myself and a shower came off, I wouldn't perceive the event as stressful at all. I would just fix it myself, because I would have the skills I needed to solve the problem. Now, I might still be a little stressed about the things I need to do to get the handle fixed, but not as much as I could be, because I figured out how I want to solve the problem. For the following example, determine where the primary appraisal and the secondary appraisal is. LaShonda did poorly on a quiz and became frustrated. She had an immediate negative emotional response. However, after thinking more carefully about the situation she realized two important things. First, she realized that it was better to receive a poor grade for just one assignment and not the entire class. Second, she realized she did not appropriately estimate how much studying would be necessary to do well on the quiz. So she knows that in the future she needs to allocate more time to studying to do well on her quizzes. Type which part of this example you think is a primary appraisal, and which part of the example is a secondary appraisal, in the respective boxes The primary appraisal was her initial reaction which was frustration. The secondary appraisal were her two new considerations. First she realized it was good that she just did bad on one assignment and not the entire class. And she realized she needs more time to study to do well on future quizzes. Now try the same thing for this scenario. Matthew forgot his bus pass at home, and when he was about to get on the bus, he realized this. He became very upset, and this caused a negative emotional reaction. While walking to school, instead of riding the bus, he thought more carefully about the situation. And realized that at he least he didn't lose the bus pass, it was safely at home. So, he didn't have to spend money to replace it. Also, he realized that it was good to get outside and enjoy some exercise on his walk to school. Identify the part of this scenario that was a primary appraisal and the part there was a secondary appraisal. Type your responses in these two boxes. The primary appraisal was his initial reaction. He was upset. The secondary appraisal were his two new considerations. He realized he just left it home. He didn't have to buy a new one, which was great. And he also realized, it was nice to get some exercise and be outside for a while. In both of these examples, we see how important it is, and useful it can be to engage in secondary appraisal. We can learn a lot from taking a step back and reanalyzing a situation. Now let's switch gears a little bit, and look at the physiological components of stress. Before we talk about different ways to cope with stress, I want to talk about what stress does to the body. And emphasize just how important it is to reduce the amount of stress we have in our lives. Now, when we talk about stress, we're talking about the negative emotional response we have to stress. But what we're really talking about is the physiological response we have to a stressor. Let's take a closer look at this. So now we're going to touch on some material that we talked about during the lesson on the brain which was lesson three. This material may feel pretty dense, but you can always refer to the document we're giving you on the physiological side of the stress response. Stressful events can cause changes in our physiology. Most importantly, we see that the autonomic nervous system, endocrine system and the brain all interact together to produce changes in our body systems as a result of stress. Remember that the autonomic nervous system has both the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems. Sympathetic is responsible for arousing and parasympathetic is responsible for calming. Remember, for example, when Susan encountered the bear in Yosemite? This resulted in activation of her sympathetic nervous system, which allowed for an increase in heart rate, which pumped more blood to the large muscle groups, and more oxygen was available so her muscles can function and react to the dangerous situation she found herself in. In addition to the autonomic system, the endocrine system is important in our stress response because it consists of the major hormone-releasing glands that are active during our stress response. That's the Pituitary gland and the Adrenal glands. When Susan saw the bear in Yosemite, her sympathetic nervous system was activated. Which is responsible for her blank or blank response that helped her run away. Think back to one of the things the sympathetic nervous system is responsible for and fill in the blanks. The answer is fight or flight. Susan's sympathetic nervous system was responsible for activating her fight or flight response when she saw the bear. Clearly, she chose flight, because she ran away from the bear. The endocrine system, is linked to the nervous system, by the hypothalamus, which is one of the important structures, involved in stress, along with the endocrine system's pituitary gland and adrenal glands. Neurons in the hypothalamus release chemicals, which causes the pituitary gland to release hormones. These hormones play an important role, in the response to stress. Also important to the stress response are the adrenal glands because they release hormones called catecholamines and glucocorticoids. Catecholamines control the autonomic nervous system activation. Catecholamines include dopamine, norepinephrine and epinephrine. Glucocorticoids are important because they maintain activation of our physiological systems during emergencies. So there are two main pathways that are activated during stress response, that start in the hypothalamus. First is the adrenal medullary system. Now think back to lesson 1, when I saw the snake. When I initially saw the snake, the stress was encountered. In my hypothalamus, sends information, to the brain stem, to activate the sympathetic nervous system. From an evolutionary perspective, our ability to engage the activation of our fight or flight response, has important benefits. When we encounter an emergency, or a dangerous situation, this causes the release of catecholamines and the activation of our fight or flight response, allow us to behave appropriately. Meaning, we can either run away or we can stay and fight. So here are the catecholamines were released and I obviously opted to flee, rather than to stand and fight. However, long term activation of your sympathetic nervous system. Can have some serious negative effects. This constant increase in heart rate, can cause damage, but we're going to talk more about the negative consequences of chronic stress shortly. If you encountered a stressor, like I did when I encountered tickles, what would the effects of the activation of your sympathetic nervous system be on your body? Would you have a decrease in heart rate, increase in digestion processes, increase in blood pressure, decrease in blood pressure, more oxygen available for your muscles. Less oxygen available through your muscles, or an increase in heart rate. Select as many or as few as you would like. When you encounter a stressor, such as when I encounter tickles, you'll see an increase in blood pressure. More oxygen available for your muscles. And, an increase in heart rate. Now let's go back to the two pathways activated during stress response. The second pathway that's responsible for our stress response, is the hypothalamus pituitary adrenal axis, or HPA access, for short. When we're experiencing our stressful emotional response to a stressor our hypothalamus releases something called the corticotropin releasing factor or CRF for short. Then like a domino effect, this causes the pitutary gland to release adrenocorticotropic hormone, ACTH for short, which then causes the adrenal gland to secrete cortisol. Cortisol is a major gluccocorticoid produced in humans. Which is commonly called the stress hormone. This secretes from hypothalamus to pituitary gland to adrenal gland is why it's called the HPA axis, H P A. Try this, these are the steps involved in the HPA access. The hypothalamus releases what? And whatever this is, causes the pituitary gland to release blank. And here's a hint. Whatever this is, is the same answer for this one, because this, causes the adrenal gland to release blank. Feel free to enter just the abbreviations or you can spell the whole word. The corticotropin releasing factor is released from the hypothalamus, which causes the pituitary gland to release the adrenocorticotropic hormone. Then the ACTH causes the adrenal gland to release cortisol. And those are the steps involved in our response to stress via the HPA axis. That's right Lauren. Cortisol is a hormone produced by the body and it is important to give us fuel during emotional arousal and stressful events. However, cortisol is also a part of the immune system functioning and it decreases the number of immune cells available in the blood stream to fight off infection. Therefore, when we are stressed we are more likely to get sick. As an example, when I was getting ready to write this lesson, I became very sick. I got a terrible cold. I was really stressed. I had to write this lesson. I was behind in my grading. I had theses to review. And on top of it, my poor cat, Nonsense, was sick. It's no doubt, then, or surprising, why students get sick around mid-term and finals. The important thing to remember here, is that when we experience a stressful event, cortisol is released, which decreases our immune system functioning. Now, we're going to go to Greg, and look at how we handle stress. So, thanks Susan. So, how does our body respond to stress? Well, a physiologist by the name of Hans Selye studied this, and he discovered that there were in fact three distinct phases to the stress response. There's the alarm, resistance and exhaustion. So, in stage one of the stress response, we have the alarm stage. And in this stage, we're exposed to some kind of stress or stresser, and our body responds two ways. First, the sympathetic nervous system releases catecholamines. And secondly the adrenal glands of the of the HPA axis releases cortisol. Now and this is our bodies preparation to deal with the stress. But long term exposure to cortisol compromises our immune function as we saw with [UNKNOWN] Susan. So, our bodies can't handle being in the alarm stage too long. We either die or we cope. And if we cope, we enter Stage two, called resistance. And in resistance, cortisol is still being released throughout our bodies. And this cortisol helps activate us, arouses us and maintains a response. Now, long term arousal though, is not good for our bodies, as we'll see here more in a minute. So, in the third and final stage, we have exhaustion. And in the exhaustion stage, what's going on is our body's been trying to fight this threat for such a long time that we've become depleted of it's resources. And we have no ability to fight off illness, because our immune system is compromised. In fact, I'm sure many of you have gotten sick during finals. That's due to exhaustion and lowered immune response. Thanks Greg! The three stages are what Selye referred to as the General Adaptation Syndrome. To recap, General Adaptation Syndrome consists of three stages. First is the alarm stage. This is when your body first reacts to the stressful or threatening situation. With activation of the sympathetic nervous system and the HPA Axis. The second stage is the resistance stage. This is when your body tries to adapt to the stress. Here, we have sustained release of cortisol, as our body attempts to maintain our level of arousal to combat the threat or the stressful situation. And finally we have the exhaustion stage. This is when our body resources have been depleted in an attempt to deal with the threat or stressful situation. As a result of this depletion, our immune system is weakened, making it more likely that we experience illness and infection. It's important to note however that this model doesn't account for all stress responses. In fact, new research has shown that different emotions can actually produce different activation patterns in a autonomic nervous system. Which call for some question of the validity of the general adoption syndrome never the less this model does serve as an overview of how are bodies might react with stressful event. One thing we know about the stress response, is some of the effects it has on the brain. If you remember from lesson three about the brain, or even our memory lesson, we know that it's important for learning and memory. In fact, the hippocampus has a large number of receptors for cortisol, which again, is the stress hormone. We see the stress-related release of cortisol can cause dendrites in the hippocampus to shrink. Now, if you remember from Lesson three, dendrites are what come off of a neuron to collect information. This shrinkage can interfere with several types of memory. Moreover, we see that stress can decrease the amount of neurogenesis. So, new neural growth in the hippocampus, which in turn inhibits synaptic plasticity, which will interfere with learning and memory. So, in short, stress is bad for learning and memory. So what are the affects of the cortisol in the brain? Remember, cortisol is the stress hormone. It increases plasticity, causes more serotonin to be synthesized, damages the dendrites in hippocampus, interfere with the memory, increases brain size, inhibits plasticity, it damages the dendrites in the occipital lobe. Choose as many or as few as you would like. Cortisol damages the dendrites in hippocampus. It also interferes with memory and inhibits plasticity. Why is it bad to try to cram for a test, remember a shopping list, or learn something new when you're really stressed? It's because blank affects the brain by doing something to plasticity and what to dendrites? Which blank with memory. There's a lot of blanks so it might sound weird. But here, let me give you some options. Here are some options you can add to these blanks. So complete this sentence. It's bad to try and cram for a test, remember a shopping list, or learn something new when you're really stressed. Because cortisol affects the brain by inhibiting plasticity and damages dendrites, which interferes with memory. So, you won't be able to remember what you studied for the test, or what's on the shopping list, or the new things that you learned. So to recap on this section, the important take-home message here is that extended exposure to stress causes release of cortisol, and can have serious negative consequences by reducing neural plasticity, causing shrinkage of the dendrites, and thereby negatively effecting our memory and our ability to learn. We'll discuss in more detail the effects of stress on the body shortly. But for now, let's talk about how we cope with stress. Now that we know stress refers to our perceived ability to meet the demands of a given situation, and we know how our body responds to stress, how is it that we handle stress? Well, psychologists call our ability to handle or deal with stress, coping. Now as it turns out, there are two distinct coping strategies. The first focuses on changing a situation or solving a problem. The second focuses on changing one's emotional response, or regulating your emotional response to a stressful situation. The first is called problem-focused coping, and the second is called emotion-focused coping. Let's talk about examples of each of these. Now, I want you to think carefully about these two ways to cope with stress, because I really think they can help us in our day to day lives we encounter stress. So, let's look at two stress provoking situations. The first, untied shoes. The second, the tides of the ocean. Yes, you heard Lauren correctly. Untied shoes and tides, as in high tides and low tides. Let's take a closer look to see how people may cope with these stressful events. Here are Greg and Lauren and they both have a problem, or a stressful event. Their shoes are untied. Greg thinks about strategies he can use to change this situation to reduce the stress. He could buy elastic shoes so he never has to tie his shoes again, he could tape his shoes so that they won't come untied. Or he could tie his shoe. These are ways in which he could change his situation to reduce the stress of having an untied shoe. Here Greg focused on his problem and changed his situation. This is called, problem-focused coping and it involves looking at the situation and changing the situation that caused the stress. Lauren on the other hand, had a different way with coping with this some what trivial event. Upon figuring out her shoe was untied, Lauren sought social support from her friends and family. Often times we talk to our friends and family when we're experiencing stressful events and it can help relieve some of the negative emotional responses that we have. A second type of coping strategy is the one that we see Lauren doing. And this is called emotion focus coping. One form of that is seeking social support. With emotion focus coping we try to reduce the emotional distress that we're experiencing. Now psychologists have come up with at least six different ways in which we can use emotion focus coping, as tools to reduce our stress. In addition to seeking social support, another emotion-focused coping tool is distancing. What do you think Lauren would do if she tried to distance herself from this stressful situation? Well, as the name implies, Lauren would try to distance herself from the situation, as we see here. Again, as the name implies, we try to distance ourselves, either physically or psychologically from the situation. Physical distance means leaving or getting away, and psychological distance means reinterpreting or just not caring as much. Loren can try to escape or avoid the stress by focusing on something else like watching a movie. If this happened to you, how would you handle this stressful situation? Like Greg, and have a problem-focused coping way to solve it, or like Lauren and have an emotional-focused way to solve it. Greg and Lauren have a problem, the changing tides of the ocean causes them stress. Greg faces a stressful event with his problem focus coping strategy again. In problem focus coping Greg looks for strategies are ways to change a situation so the stress is reduced. So Greg spends hours and hours trying to find a way to stop the changing of the tide so he can enjoy a day at the beach with his wife and two sons. However, as we know, this is a problem he is not going to be able to change. Poor Greg. Loren on the other hand again uses emotion focus coping. And one way she can use this technique is through reappraisal. Here, Loren looks at the situation again in a new light. Being an avid scuba diver, she remembers the information that her scuba instructor gave her, and that let her reappraise the stressful situation. If Loren checks the tide tables, she could actually time her dive to the changing tides and have a better dive if she gets in the water an hour before high tide. This is great news for Lauren. So, now the negative emotions have been replaced with positive ones. Excitement for the awesome dive. Lauren can also engage in self control as a way to cope with a stressful situation. Here, she can try to talk herself through the problem as a way to decrease the emotional response to stress. So now we're looking at emotion focused coping of self control by talking your self through a problem. In fact, research shows that we can reduce stress with positive self talk. Okay, this is a problem I can't control. It's going to be okay, there's a light at the end of the tunnel. The tides are going to change, and they're going to stay like that for a few hours before they change back, so, I can handle this. So who handled this problem better. Greg with his problem-focused coping, or Lauren with her emotion-focused coping? The last strategy that we'll talk about in emotion focused coping is a technique developed by psychologist James Pennebaker and it's called emotional disclosure. In emotional disclosure, an individual writes or talks about the stressful situation. And research has shown this can have positive outcomes. For example, some researchers found that individuals with cancer and HIV Aids. Who engaged in emotional disclosure actually had better health outcomes than those who did not. Recall that we have at least two ways in which we can deal with your stressful situations. One, is problem focus coping and the other is emotion focus coping. Recall that with problem focused coping, we looked for strategies to solve the problem and therefore, reduce our stress. With emotion focus coping, we look at ways in which we can reduce the negative emotional response that we experience to stress. Now, we discussed a variety of emotion-focused coping responses. Social support is one way in which we can reduce the negative emotional responses that we feel in regards to stress. Therefore, talking with friends or family about stressful situations or predicaments in which we find ourselves, can go a long way in reducing our overall stress levels. This in turn we know is important for our overall brain health and immune system functioning. Therefore, we want to avoid long term exposure to stress because we know cortisol has a negative effect on the hippocampus and our immune system functioning. Now, we're going to move on and see how stress affects our health, and Greg's going to introduce that topic for us. So, recall that we just said that people respond differently to stress. And one of the things that determines this difference in how people respond to stress, is how positively or negatively they see the world. So, certainly you've all heard the term optimist and pessimist. Now, the optimist, as the saying goes, will see this glass as half full and the pessimist will see it as half empty. So, optimism is good, not just for our behavior, but for our minds and our bodies as well. So, for instance, research has shown that optimists are less likely to get depressed. They're better able to cope with their emotions, and they recover faster from, and cope better with stress. So, optimism is good for our minds and our bodies. Thanks Greg for the introduction. One's ability to find meaning in a stressful event or situation can be an important predictor of one's overall physiological as well as psychological health. Sometimes in life we're exposed to devastating situations. Such as a loss of a loved one, a natural disaster, like a tornado or an earthquake. Or even a life threatening or debilitating disease. How does one handle that or cope? What type of attitude would you have if you found out you had late stage cancer? It turns out that how we look at the situation can be important for our health. That is, if you're able to step back and look at the big picture and find meaning in the situation, you actually may have a better overall health outcome than those who can't do that. How do you think you handle stress? Like an optimist or like a pessimist? If you had to assess how you handle stress, pick one. Thanks for responding, but there's clearly no right or wrong answer. What Susan and Greg said is true. It's very important that we try to step outside of an event to examine the positive experiences we can get from it. Having dealt with it myself, as I'm sure many of you have, I understand how difficult it can be, to see the positive side of a traumatic event, like losing a loved one. However, I can assure you, that finding something meaningful or good in an event can result in less suppression and more optimism. Unfortunately, another way that people seek to reduce stress is through drug use. Now let's go to Susan and talk a little bit more about this. Smoking cigarettes is one way in which some people reduce stress. And it may be the case because the active ingredient in cigarettes, nicotine, actually relaxes skelatal muscles. This is why people say smoking relaxes them. However, we also know that nicotine activates the sympathetic nervous system. This causes increase in heart rate and blood pressure. And, you recall, that this is not good for extended period of time. As you recall from our lesson on consciousness and drugs, many people use alcohol as a way to self medicate or to reduce their stress. Alcohol is a central nervous system depressant and it actually causes relaxation in the short run. However, long term use of alcohol can result in a variety of negative effects, including damage to the heart, cirrhosis of the liver, negative effects on the brain, in addition to physiological, as well as psychological dependence. Are there any other ways that you think people might cope with stress? Type in your response here. And there are many ways that people can cope with stress. One, may be to eat. Let's talk about that a little more. In addition to relying on substances to cope with stress, some people turn to eating as a method of coping with stress. And oftentimes, this involves eating unhealthy foods that are high in fat and processed sugars. We all know the importance of diet in maintaining our health. So, unfortunately, this can lead to obesity and even for some people diabetes. So, let's talk about some effective and healthy ways of coping with stress. What do you think would be an effective and healthy way to cope with stress? Type your response here. One way to do it, is through exercise. One effective way to handle stress and beat the negative impact stress has on our bodies is through exercise. There is a great deal of research out there showing just how important exercise can be in reducing the physiological negative responses to stress. In fact exercise is beneficial to our overall brain health specifically for our hippocampus. Engaging in regular exercise can have great benefits to our bodies including lowering the risk of heart disease, stroke and certain types of cancers. It can also ward off the onset of diabetes. And, in fact, it can improve our overall emotional health, which can result in a decrease likelihood of depression. We can't stress enough the importance of exercise in your physiological and psychological well being. More and more research comes out everyday affirming the benefits of exercise. However, there's so many people that say they're just too busy to exercise. Well, the question is, would you take an out of your day to get medical treatment if you knew that it could extend your life? In fact, you don't even have to exercise an hour a day. Research shows that if you exercise for 30 minutes a few times per week, it can have positive benefits on your physical and emotional health. So, get out there and exercise. Now one last technique that we will discuss that can be helpful in reducing stress and in turn have positive effects on physical and psychological health is meditation. Meditation involves the practice of sitting quietly and clearing one's mind by concentrating on the present moment. Now this may sound easy to do but it's actually quite difficult. Mindfulness is one technique for focusing on present. That is, being in the moment. So, mindfulness meditation is the act of meditating while being aware of the present moment. And in the present moment, concentrating only on breathing or in some cases, you may concentrate on a particular saying or thought. Mindfulness meditation has been shown to have a positive effect on both physiological and psychological well being. For example, reducing pain, depression and anxiety. Therefore, mindfulness meditation is an important technique or tool that can be used to combat the negative reactions to stress. I encourage you to go to YouTube and look up some mindfulness meditation practices and then try them. And incorporate these into your daily activities so you can have a powerful tool for combating negative psychological and physiological effects of stress. Up until now, we have discussed what stress is? How it effects our body including the brain and the immune system as well as different ways to cope with stress. Now, we are going to learn how stress affects our overall health. Much before we have learned about how stress affects our overall health is through the areas of psychology called health psychology. Health psychologist focus on how psychological factors play role in illness as well as health. There are two models that examine the role of stress in relation to our health. One is the Physiological Reactivity Model, which attempts to explain the causal role of stress-related bodily changes in illness. The second model is called the Health Behavior Approach. Here the explanation for illness or health is focused on the role of behaviors such as diet, exercise, and substance abuse. We already discussed how diet, exercise, and substance abuse are ways of coping with stress, so we won't say much more about the health behavior approach. However, let's talk about the physiological reactivity model. So let's take this example, let's say you walk in the class and the professor says, put your books away, take out a piece of paper, we're having a test. Hearing this statement from your professor may cause stress. The fact that you're not prepared for the pop quiz results in a stressful response. However, if you have read the material and studied, hearing the professor say put your notes away and get out a sheet of paper may not result in a stressful response. So here we have an event, which is the pop quiz, and then your appraisal of the situation. And this, is what's really important here. You may appraise a situation in a positive and beneficial way which produces positive emotions. However on the other hand you may see the situation as negative or even potentially threatening and that produces negative emotions. From here the negative emotions causes the stress response. Which you can recall is the activation of the sympathetic nervous system. However, prolonged exposure to the stressful situation causes extended release of cortisol and sustained activation of the sympathetic nervous system which in turn weakens the body. As we discussed earlier the body is negatively effected by the suppression of the immune system which increases our succeptability to illness. Now one factor we did not discuss was that prolong exposure to activation of the sympathetic nervous system also has negative consequences on our cardiovascular health. The cardiovascular system is comprised of our heart and all of the blood vessels in our body. Now, unfortunately, the cardiovascular system is especially susceptible to the effects of sustained arousal. Under the conditions of sustained arousal, our heart rate and blood pressure elevate and remain elevated over a period of time. This can damage arteries. And increase the likelihood of fatty buildup. This in turn can result in heart disease. Again, this demonstrates just how important it is to reduce stress in our daily lives. Because of its negative consequences on the immune system, as well as the poteential damage to our cardiovascular health. At this point lets turn to an overview of our immune system to help us understand exactly what's happening in our bodies and our ability to fight off illnesses. There are two types of defense we have as humans, we have natural immunity and we have acquired immunity. Natural immunity refers to the processes that we have to remove foreign substances from our bodies. Inflammation, and phagocytosis, are two forms of natural immunity. Inflammation occurs when tissues are restored following some type of injury. Where as phagocytosis occurs when white blood cells take in a substance, and digest it, or, move it to a place where it can be destroyed. So these are two types of natural immunities. And we have acquired immunities when we get antibodies that are produced in the body in response to specific antigens. We get these through experience. For example, when you become sick from a virus, you develop antibodies that defend against that virus. And that's why specific viruses cannot affect you again in the future. This is an example of an acquired immunity. If you hurt yourself, then you see of feel inflammation. Is this a sign that your body is trying to fix itself or that the problem is getting worse? Select one. Your body is trying to fix itself. Because information is a form of a natural immunity, and it happens when tissues are restored following an injury. What would you relate phagocytosis to? Our red blood cells spreading an infection around so much that it dies off? Or is it something like our white blood cells attack an infection like little superheroes and kill it? Or haul it away to be destroyed, so, it can't cause any more damage? Or is it like our HPA axis vacuuming everything that is bad and destroying it? Select one. Our white blood cells take in a substance, and destroy it, or move it to someplace where it can destroyed. So, white blood cells really are like little superheroes protecting our bodies from harm. Again, it's important to emphasize that it's a person's perceived ability to handle a situation that plays a large role in how our body reacts to a stressful event. Now what may be stressful to one person may not be stressful to another. So two people can be exposed to the exact same virus and one person may get sick and one person may not. All because of how they perceive the stress they are under. Now have you ever gotten sick when you were under a lot of stress? If so, what was that stressor? As we mentioned, not only our immune system is compromised in regards to stress, but we can also have problems with cardiovascular health. There are two psychological risk factors that predict heart health. 1 of those is type A personality and the other is anger. Those with type A personality or type A behavior patterns respond to stressful situations or challenges with impatience, hostility or anger. In addition, hostility and anger, which are our emotional responses to stress, can cause an increase in blood pressure and heart rate. Over an extended period of time, that can lead to coronary artery disease. And then, that can actually lead to heart disease. The take-home message here is how we respond to the stressful situation, by being angry or hostile, may lead to heart disease. However, if we can reduce our stressful response to the stressful situation, we actually may be able to avoid heart disease. Now we're going to go back to Lauren and learn a little bit more about heart disease and stress. Some research has shown an interaction between heart disease and depression. For example, depression can increase the risk of death from heart disease. However, for many of the studies on the relationship between heart disease and depression, it's difficult to determine which came first. For example, was the person depressed first and then acquired heart disease, or is it the opposite. In that the person had heart disease and then acquired depression. Here we can refer back to what we learned in the research methods lesson, lesson two. These studies on heart disease and depression were correlation studies, and as such, we cannot make causal statements regarding whether heart disease causes depression, or depression causes heart disease. However, we can say that the two are related. Okay, so here are two quick true or false questions I want you to answer. They should be pretty easy. Heart disease causes depression, true or false? Depression causes heart disease, true or false? Of course, both of these are false, because it's a correlational study. So, we can't say that one causes the other, just that they're related. Now, unlike our usual ending to the lesson with a recap, let's try to meditate and see if you can do it and you can leave in a stress free, relaxed state. First, you want to sit with your eyes closed in a comfortable position. Slowly breathe in for a count of four. Hold for two seconds and then breath through your nose releasing. You want to take long breaths in and then long breaths out. While you're breathing, remember to try to not let anything pop into your head, it maybe helpful to think about the ocean waves coming in as you're breathing. And then as your exhaling, the wave's going back out. Try to do this for five minutes a day, moving up to fifty minutes a day. Research has shown that if you can meditate, you may be able to reduce your stress levels This lesson is about personality and in this lesson we're going to talk about what makes you, well you. So I want to get started by having you tell me five words that describe yourself. Thanks for your response. Now you probably didn't say things like I have two nostrils, or I have two ears, or I have two eyes. You probably said things like I'm outgoing, or I'm shy, or I'm funny, or I'm hard working. Those are things that better describe your actual personality. Your personality is what makes you uniquely and consistently you. Personality is defined as an individual's pattern of thinking, feeling and behaving. Now, let's take this hypothetical situation. What if I just met Rosio and I see her acting in an unfriendly way? Am I likely to conclude that she's an unfriendly person? Well, I might. But that might not be correct. Because I've only seen her acting this way in that one situation. I haven't seen her under many circumstances over a long period of time, and those are two things that we need if we're going to make a conclusion about someone's personality. We just know something about the mood she was in, or how she was behaving that day. Everybody acts differently sometimes. The most introverted person can light up when they're around their friends. The kindest person can sometimes be angry or even hostile. But personality is how we behave most of the time. Personality requires that we know three things about a person. First, is how different is the behavior compared to others. That is, how unique is the behavior. Second, is does the personality trait exist in many different situations. And finally, does the personality trait exist regularly over time? Until we can answer all three of these questions, we can't say much about a persons personality. Given that we have to know a lot about a person to understand their personality, it can be a hard thing to measure. However, we can measure it. So on that note, I want to take this quick personality assessment. It should only take between five to 15 minutes. When you're done, write down the percentages you got on the five categories and then let's talk about it. You'll find the link in the instructor's notes box. Now that you completed the personality questionnaire, what did you get on five main personality traits. Openness to experience, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness and neuroticism. Type in your answers in these boxes. Now, of course, there's no right or wrong answer for these. When it comes to the general population, these scores are normally distributed. Do you remember normal distribution from lesson two? Well, let's take a closer look. All five of the personalty dimensions exist on a continuum. Meaning just like with intelligence, if you plot the entire population, you'll only get a few people at the extreme highs or the extreme lows of each dimension. But most people would end up here, in the middle. If we plotted the frequency of the entire population, we would get a bell shape curve or normal distribution. So most of us, about 68% of us, would score around the mean. But then we'll see that around 2% of people are either really high or really low in any given dimension. What this also shows us is that there's a high and the low in to all the personalities dimensions. For example, let's look at extroversion. On the high end we have, well extroversion, and on the low end we have introversion. And now, look at agreeableness. On the high end we have, well, agreeableness and on the low end we have hostility or coldness. So, as you can see, the big five uses the high end as the labels, but there are still two sides to things, the highs and the lows. Personality traits are dispositions to behave in a particular over time. So, traits are connected directly to the disposition to behave. Let's look in an example. Here we see Miriam and Biriam. Miriam is usually very friendly. Watch. See, someone cut her in the lunch line and she was nice about it. She holds the door for people when they're walking in. Someone even hits her car when they weren't paying attention. She was less nice to the person in this situation, but tried to be understanding. Someone gave her a million dollars and she was extra nice to them. Now let's go to Biriam, who's usually not very friendly. Somebody cut him in line and he rudely makes them know how wrong they were to cut him. Someone's walking up and he doesn't hold the door for them. Someone hits his car when they weren't paying attention and he's really, really rude about it. Someone gives him a million dollars and then we see him be kind of nice to that person. Who do you think is friendlier? Miriam or Biriam? Miriam seems like the friendlier person, but here's the catch. Both of them can be friendly. So if Miriam really does have a friendly personality. What we mean by that is that her threshold for acting friendly is lower than most people. So here we see Miriam's threshold for acting friendly. She's more likely to act friendly in different situations as compared to not acting friendly. On the other hand, we have Biriam, who has a very high threshold for acting friendly, meaning it takes him a lot more to be nice to someone than it would for Miriam to be nice to someone. So this is one trait that makes Biriam and Miriam unique. So traits change our threshold for behaving. And make us more likely to behave in ways consistent with with the trait. Such as being friendly. And less likely to behave in ways Inconsistent with the trait, for example, being hostile or mean. So just because it takes a lot more for Biriam to be friendly, it doesn't mean that he can't be friendly and just because Miriam is usually friendly doesn't mean there aren't situations where she's not friendly. Their traits make them more likely to behave in a way that's consistent. So what's the significance of the five traits that personality test assessed? Well, these are the widely agreed upon core personality traits that psychologists believe make up your personality. These are called the big five. We have openness to experience, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness. And neuroticism. Do you remember from the memory lesson when we talked about mnemonic devices and how they can help you remember things. Well we have one for the big five. And that's OCEAN, or you could use CANOE, if you're so inclined. But what do these traits mean? Let's go to Greg to talk about each one individually. So openness to experience is the tendency to prefer to explore, be curious about our world and to be open and prefer new experiences, for instance foods, people, places and kinds of music. It's also connected to being curious, creative and imaginative. On the other end of the spectrum, low openness to experience, we have a preference for the tried and true to the unknown. A preference for the familiar to the unfamiliar. And a preference for the realistic to the imaginative. So, can you think of careers well suited for people high in openness to experience? Well there are many different kinds of careers. But the ones for instance that we know most about are artists, musicians, scientists, and explorers. So conscientiousness is a personality dimension, that involves being careful, planfull, organized, and even meticulous. And on the other end of the spectrum, being low in conscientiousness, means often being impulsive, quick, and a bit disorganized. So can you think of careers well suited for people high in conscientiousness? So among the many possibilities, we have programmers, editors, technicians and machinists. Oh, and by the way, artists tend to be low in conscientousness. So, extroversion is another dimension of personality. An extroversion involves being comfortable with people, being sociable, talkative, outgoing and it also involves enjoying risky, thrill seeking kinds of behavior, like driving fast, downhill skiing and parachuting. On the other end of the spectrum is introversion, an introversion involves, shyness, preferring to be alone, or in small groups of people, and also wanting to avoid high-risk kinds of behaviors. Now, some people wonder whether shyness is really a necessary part of introversion. And let's be clear, the research and theory does suggest that introverted people really are shy, at least compared to extroverted people. Now, two important points. Shyness is not shyness all the time. Shy people in fact can be very outgoing, and comfortable around people, that they know. And secondly, shyness, is also not the same as social anxiety. It's not to be confused. Because social anxiety is a much more debilitating, disorder, that we'll talk about actually in later lessons. So, can you think of careers well suited for highly extroverted people. So there are many possible answers, but in general, highly extroverted people make good politicians, good teachers and good sales people. So, agreeableness is a personality dimension that involves being caring, friendly, warm and compassionate on the one hand, and cold, hostile, and aloof on the other. You know, in fact, this dimension of personality is one that we often get a very good sense of when we very first meet someone. We get a sense of whether they're warm and friendly, or whether they're cold and hostile. So, can you think of careers well-suited for people high in agreeableness? So, there's many possible answers again. But some careers are well-suited for highly agreeable people, are religious figures, nurses, and counselors. So, the fifth and final personality dimension we nave is neuroticism. And neuroticism is the tendency to experience negative emotions easily. Like fear, anxiety, sadness and depression. And it's also the tendency to be high strung under pressure. On the other hand, low neuroticism involves being cool, calm, and collected, especially under pressure. Now, let me be clear. Neuroticism is not the same thing as neurotic. In fact, it's only the top one or 2% of the people in neuroticism who might be diagnosed as being neurotic. So, let's switch it up a little bit this time. Can you think of careers that are well suited for people low in neuroticism, that is who are calm and collected. So, careers that are well suited for people low in neuroticism, are being a pilot, being a surgeon, an astronaut, or an emergency medical technician. After all, we sure don't want someone who's high strung and cracks under pressure to be flying our planes. Personality research consistently shows, that different personalities prefer different careers and college majors. In fact, college counseling centers often administer one personality questionnaire When trying to guide students, we are still searching for a career that fits them. That questionnaire is Myers-Briggs type indicator, or the MBTI for short. The MBTI consists of opposing personality types. Extraversion and intraversion. Thinking and feeling. Intuition and sensing. In judging and perceiving. In other words people are classified, either as an extrovert or an introvert. Or as a thinker or as a feeler, and so on. For example, intuition and sensing describes how people prefer to take in information, focused on what is real and actual. So sensing. Or on patterns and meanings and data. So intuition. Whereas thinking and feeling describes how people prefer to make decisions based on logical analysis to thinking, or prefer making decisions guided by the concern for the emotional impact it has on others. So feeling. Now, personality types are different than forms of dimensions because they categorize people as either one type or the other. Rather than on the continuum from high to low, like we see with the big five. Researchers using the MBTI have found that extraverts prefers social and enterprising major such as physiology or social work even elementary education. Whereas thinking types prefer realistic and investigative majors such as, mechanical engineering or archaeology. Feeling types prefer artistic and social majors such as art, music or theater. Now that we know more about the big five, how do we measure personality? Long interviews about the person's life. Ratings gathered from family and friends. Ratings gathered from people themselves, so a person rating them self. Discussions during psychotherapy sessions. Stories from inkblots and drawings. Facebook likes. Astrology charts. Or palm reading. Check all that apply. All but the last two are correct. Yes Facebook likes have become a source of personality information, more about that in a minute. There are many scientific methods of assessing personality, each with it's own strengths and weaknesses. Let's look closer at some of those techniques. Take a second to think about your best friend. What kind of personality traits stand out? How did you come to that conclusion? Meaning, how did you determine that they have these traits? Well, psychologists don't often have the luxury of measuring personality in people that they know. And frankly, there'd be a lot of problems in doing that, such as being biased or having a small sample size. So, we've developed many different methods to measure personality, including behavioral observations, interviews, projective tests and self-report questionnaires. Susan and I are going to talk about each of these in detail. But let's start with Susan who's going to go over behavioral observations. Thanks, Lauren. Let's move on to behavioral observation. What do we mean by this? Remember that personality involves consistent and unique styles of behaving, thinking, feeling, and our motivations. Now, it is the case that other people cannot directly observe our thoughts. Internal feelings or motivations. However, they can directly observe behavior. So having observers make ratings of personality, based on behavior, is one technique used by psychologist, to rate personality. This technique is popular when ratings of personality, need to made be of people who can not easily describe their own personality, such as young children. But it's not so simple as having a person sit down and rate the personality of another. Why is that? Can you think of reasons why any person cannot rate the personality of any other person? There are a few different reasons, but first you need to know the person well and second, you need inter-rater reliability. Lets talk about these two things in a little more detail. First, we'll talk about inter-rater reliability. First, the rater has to know the ratee well ,for a long period of time and have observed the person in many different situations. Second, ideally we would have many different raters rate the personality of an individual to reduce or avoid bias. With children or even animals who cannot read their own personalities we need to have observers rate personality. Traits such as introvert, extravert, anxious, worrying, friendly, warm and dependable for example, have particular behaviors associated with them. But rating other people's personality is not as simple as it may first seem. As we just mentioned, the rater must know the person well, and we need inter-rater reliability, that is, consistency between different raters. For example, if someone is deemed hostile by one person and friendly by another person, then we do not have a reliable reading of personality. Another way of assessing personality is by sitting down with an individual one on one and answering a series of questions. And these can be about how a person behaves differently across different situations. They may ask what the person was like when they were younger, or how they typically feel on any given day. Now, usually this is quite comfortable and relaxing for the participant because the questions are not limited to true or false, or agree or disagree type questions. However, we still have a problem with who is going to rate the answers? And whether or not those are reliable and valid. Now this technique is very popular with psychotherapists. Who want to better understand their client and their client's personality. Therefore, they may ask questions such as have you always been anxious or in what situations do you find yourself most anxious. But now let's go to Lauren and we're going to discuss projective tests. I want you to take a second and tell me what you think you see here. Thanks for your response. This was an example of a projective test. Now, because I'm not a licensed clinician, I can't interpret your responses for you. But I still wanted to show you what example of a projective test looks like. One limitation of many measures of personality is that they rely on conscious verbal assessments. However, some theorists such as Sigmund Freud, believe that much of our personality is actually unconscious and therefore difficult to verbalize. > That's right. And Sigmund Freud was a very famous psychologist who developed the psychoanalytic theory. And he thought that at the core of a person's personality was the unconscious mind. Their thoughts, motives and drives as opposed to the conscious mind. Followers of Freud actually developed indirect measures of our unconscious needs and motives. They believed that dreams and fantasies actually revealed a lot about the unconscious mechanisms behind personality. Now, these techniques are known as projective tests. And that's because a person's unconscious thoughts, motives, and drives, are projected onto their answers. The key with projective test is, you have to give a person a stimulus that's really ambiguous. That way, it can be interpreted in many different ways. And the classic example here is the Rorschach ink blot test, which you see here, which is simply symmetrical ink blots. And, the job for the person is just to look at that and tell the psychologist what he or she sees in that ink blot. And after doing this for about 10-12 ink blots, a licensed psychologist can interpret the results. They look for unconscious patterns, in the themes, that a person gives them. For example, they might have a hostile, and agressive theme, or a sexual theme, in all the ink blots. That's right. For example, a person who is depressed may see self destrucive, or perhaps sad images. A person who is anxious may see something that causes them excessive worry, or even fright. The problem with scoring projective tests, however, is that you need to find a valid and reliable way to interpret the results. That's right. And so for reliable, we would have to have multiple judges giving the same responses across time. And for validity, say a psychologist found somebody with a hostile theme to their interpretations of the ink blot. They would have to have external evidence, from friends, or family, or peers to confirm their hostility. And finally, the most commonly used assessment of personality is giving people questionnaires that have a bunch of statements that people have to agree with or disagree with to some degree. Questionnaires cover a wide range of personality traits. And different statements might read something like, I enjoy going to parties. Or, I feel sad and lonely much of the time. This technique is popular among researchers, who want to asses personality traits in hundreds, even thousands of people. The advantage to this technique is that many people can rate their own personalities relatively quickly. Also, because the answers are limited to usually around five categories. Such as strongly disagree, disagree, neither agree nor disagree, agree, and strongly agree. They can be scored and summed easily. They're objectively scored, not subjectively, like projective tests are. Now the problem, as always, is the questions and the answers must be reliable and valid. If people answer questions one way at one point in time ,but differently, say, a month later, then we don't have a reliable questionnaire. In addition, sometimes people may give biased answers. And finally, if a person doesn't really read the question or, take them seriously and just puts random answers in, they're not valid reflections of a person's personality. So good personality questionnaires take years of research to establish the reliability and validity. And have ways of detecting random or inconsistent answers. So, personality psychologists do in fact use the kinds of measures that Lauren and Susan just discussed to do many different things. In fact, it's the job of the personality psychologist to assess personality. And if they're researchers, they do this either quantitatively or qualitatively. And quantitative personality assessment involves behavior observations or self reports. Qualitative assessment of personality involves interviews or projective test. So, researchers of personality might then look at how personality is associated with or related to outcomes like health, or career interest, our creativity, or marital satisfaction. Now clinical psychologists, who study personality, may use personality assessment to diagnose personality disorders, and come up with a treatment plan to help them. Now let's talk about where personality comes from. What do you think? Where did you get your personality? Or what influenced your personality? Personality differences are mostly nature or biological, genetic and inherited. Personality differences are mostly nurture. So family, friends, teachers or role models. Personality differences are roughly equal due to nature and nurture. Personality differences are a little nature but mostly nurture. Personality differences are a little nurture but mostly nature. Check which answer you think is the best. As is true for many psychological topics, the answer lies in a complex interplay between nature and nurture. So, being born the way you are and being made by our environment. So one of the more powerful techniques that psychologists have at their disposal for understanding where a personality comes from is twin adoption studies. Now, twin adoption studies are so important because they really simulate these naturally occurring experiments as it were. So the twin part is really shorthand for how genetically related people are. So, for instance identical twins are 100% genetically related, fraternal twins, siblings and parents and off springs are 50% genetically related. Cousins then for instance are about 12% genetically related on average. The adoption part is important because it varies the environment. So whether people are raised in the same family and household are in different families and households. So we can't randomly assign people to these conditions, so we have to use what nature gives us and that's the Twin Adoption Study. So the best way to study the affects of genes in environment or nature and nurture on personality is to study different kinds of relatives brought up in different kinds of environments. So now let's go to Lauren for a question. So if genes played little to no role at all, and environment played a large role. What kind of pattern would we expect to see in the data or the results? Strong similarity in personality between all different degrees of relatives regardless of where they were brought up. Strong similarity in personality only in genetically close relatives reared together. Strong similarity in personality only in genetically close relatives reared apart. Strong similarity in personality only in people reared together. Choose the ones that you think would apply to this situation. We wouldn't see similarities in personality between relatives, regardless of how genetically close they were. We would see strong similarities in people who are reared together, so this one would apply as well. The similarity would increase as the environmental closeness increased. So let's try another one. If environment played little to no role and genetics played a large role in personality formation, what pattern of results do you think we would see? We'd see similar personality styles between close relatives regardless of where they grew up. We'd see similarity in personality between only close relatives who were raised together. We'd seem similarity in personality between all relatives only if they were raised together. Or finally, we'd see similarity in personality would increase as genetic closeness increased. We would see similar personality styles between close relatives, regardless of where they grew up. And we would see that, similarity in personality would increase, as genetic closeness increased. The simplest test of genes in the environment is when we compare two sets of identical twins. Those who are reared apart, and those who are reared together. Because they're genetically identical, if genes played no role in personality, then we'd see a very small correlation or similarity between twins who were reared apart, so different environments. Likewise, if environment played no role, we would see the same correlations between twins that were raised together and those who were raised apart, regardless of where they were raised. When researchers collected data on personality of relatives including identical twins, they found evidence for about 50% of the differences in personality stemming from genetic influence. So, about half of our personality differences are due to our genetic make up. So, you would think that the other half stems from the environment. And that's essentially true. But, it's not that simple. We can look at environment in two ways. One that we share with our family and one that we do not share with our family. So, friends, teachers, role models, and more. Before we continue, let me ask you a question. Do you think the strongest environmental influence on our personality is from our family, so are shared? Or are non family, or non shared? Select one. The surprising conclusion from the research on gene and environment explanations of personality is that environmental influence of our family is extremely low. It's almost all from non-shared environments and from our non-family. Our non-family accounts for about 40% of our personality on average. So personality is a mixture of both nature and nurture. But the nurture part ironically comes mostly from outside of the family. With twin studies, we see that heredity, or your genetics account for around 50 to 60% of most traits. However, slightly less for agreeableness and openness. What's surprising is that shared environment, meaning your home and your family, has a really small influence on these traits, as compared to a non sharing environment. So for example you get 39% of your openness from your genetics, 14% from the environment you share with your family. And 47% from your non-shared environment. And as for conscientiousness, 44% of this trait comes from non-shared environment with 56% of it coming from genetics. And we can see this line up with extroversion, agreeableness and neuroticism as well. So you may be wondering how is that people who grow up in the same family can grow up in different environments? Well, birth order is one way this can happen. And by birth order we just simply mean whether you're first child or second child or fourth child or whatever. Now birth order really can affect our personalities. In general, the evidence suggests that first born children, for example, tend to be more conservative. They tend to be more responsible. And they tend to have a higher self esteem. And then latter born children, people second, and third, and fourth, and so on tend to be more rebellious and challenge the status quo. In fact, the psychologist Frank Sulloway wrote a book called, Born to Rebel and it was all about birth order. And he studied the history of science and politics and the reason he chose these two areas was because they have revolutions pretty regularly. New ideas come on and he wanted to see who accepted and who rejected these new revolutionary ideas and as it turns out, the best predictor of who accepted and rejected these new ideas was birth order. First born children tended to reject new ideas in science and politics. And latter born children tended to accept them. So birth order really does affect our personalities. In addition to the genetic and environmental evidence for personality, there's also evidence for a biological basis for personality. The psychologist Hans Eysenck developed a biological theory of introversion and extroversion as well as neuroticism. He proposed that differences in people's nervous systems lead to different personality. This is most easily seen in the introversion and extroversion dimension of personality. Eysenck argued that two qualities of the central nervous system led to introversion and extroversion. The first is arousal levels of the cortex. And the second is threshold for sensory stimulation. Let's look at these a little more closely. So as Lorenzo mentioned, there are two qualities to the central nervous system that influence introversion and extroversion. And these two qualities are cortical arousal levels and sensory threshold levels. For example, by cortical arousal, we mean how much the brain is active at rest. And some people, while at rest, not being stimulated, their brain is really quite active. And coupled with that often, is a low sensory threshold. Meaning for these people, it doesn't take much stimulation to arouse them. And we call these people who have this pattern introverts. And introverts are often regulating their behavior in order to optimize their arousal level. So they withdraw from people they don't know. They tend to avoid real sensory experiences like parachuting and roller coaster rides, and jumping off cliffs into water. So on the other hand we see the opposite pattern in extroverts, and in extroverts we have low cortical arousal and high sensory threshold. Meaning that at rest the brain activity of extroverts is relatively low in activity. And coupled with that is a high sensory threshold, meaning it takes more stimulation to arouse extroverts. So they regulate their behavior and arousal levels by seeking out stimulation. They really want to be around people, around noisy environments. Do thrill seeking and risky kinds of things like parachuting and roller coaster riding and jumping off cliffs. So you may or may not have noticed that, in fact, we filmed these two different scenes, talking about introversion and extroversion in different environments. So when we were talking about in introverts, we were in a white background room. And now we're in a room with more colors and there's more going on. This was not a coincidence because as it turns out introverts tend to feel more comfortable in, in rooms and environments where there's less going on. And extroverts tend to feel more comfortable in rooms and environments where there's more going on. So to give you an example of the biological basis of introversion and extraversion. Researchers measured the level of introversion and extraversion and then simply shined a light of the same intensity into everyone's eye, one at a time. As you know, pupils constrict when being exposed to a sudden increase in light. So they get smaller. So based on Eysenck's theory of the biological basis of introversion and extraversion. Whose pupil do you think will constrict or respond most to the light? Do you think introverts' eyes will constrict the most or extraverts'? Chose one. So, in fact, it's the introverts, because remember, they respond more to stimulation than extroverts. And this is seen even in constriction of the eye, to light. So this study confirms Eysenck's basic assumption and prediction that there's a biological basis for introversion, extroversion and this includes sensory stimulation. So, now we've talked a little bit about what personalty is, how it's measured, what it's structure is, and even some about the biological bases of it. But what about how psychologist explain personality, how it comes about. Well, at it turns out there's four major schools of thought in the theories of personality. And these are psychoanalytic, humanistic, trait, and social cognitive. So, let's take a little closer look at each of these. So the first personality theory that we're going to discuss is Psychoanalytic Theory, which was created by Sigmund Freud. And Freud made, at least, four major assumptions in explaining personality. The first assumption he made was about the power of the unconscious. And that is, the unconscious mind is much more important in shaping our personality than the conscious mind. And, in fact, the metaphor that he used is of the iceberg. And, the tip of the iceberg is consciousness, just a small little part of who we are. What' really important is below the surface and that's the unconscious mind. So the second major assumption that Sigmund Freud made was that the human mind has three provinces. So the first province of mind is what, Sigmund Freud, called the Id. And that's the seat of our impulses, our desires, pleasure oriented. It's all about want. The second province of mind, was what he called the Ego. And the ego is our sense of self. And it's realistic and finally we have the super ego and that is a sense of control of our impulses, conscience, knowing right from wrong. So what makes these three provinces so interesting is that there is a conflict. Inherent conflict between the Id on one hand and the Super ego on the other. Between the impulse wanting something and controlling that impulse, in fact we often can depict this as a fight that we have ourselves between our angel side and our devil side. The devil tells us to do it, we want it, the angel says no. So the third assumption that Sigmund Freud made is that personality is shaped by early childhood experiences. Now this may not seem so radical to us, but understand that in the day, people did not make that assumption. They assumed childhood experiences didn't really matter much. Freud argued otherwise. So the last major assumption that Freud made, one of his big contributions, was the idea of defense mechanisms. And defence mechanism, are like our immune system but for our mind. They keep threatening ideas, thoughts and motives out of consciousness. So to the better known, defence mechanism that Freud talked about were repression, and reaction formation. And in repression, we're keeping these threatening ideas and thoughts and feelings out of consciousness. And the main thoughts and feelings and impulses that we repress are sexual and aggressive impulses. So with reaction formation, we turn a threatening impulse into it's exact opposite. So for instance, a parent who might harbor unconscious feelings of hostility towards a child. But those feelings are too threatening so they turn it into it's opposite and become smothering with affection. Likewise, another example might be homophobia. When someone is threatened by their own latent homosexual impulses and turns that impulse into hostility towards those who express homosexual behavior. So, in the next theory of personality, we have the humanistic approach. And the fundamental assumption of the humanistic approach personality is that people are striving to be the best person they can be. That is, self-actualizing, so you may recall from lesson 11, when we talked about Abraham Maslow's hierarchy of needs. And at the peak of that need hierarchy was self-actualization. And it's just that, when people are striving to be the best person they can be. Now self-actualizing people are very rare, doesn't happen very often, but they do seem to have some qualities, a lot of qualities actually. Some of them are for instance, they tend to have a purpose and calling in their work. They tend to be very simple and natural in their interactions. And in their work, they also tend to be creative and fulfilled. Now self-actualization only happens however, once the lower level needs are met. So first the physiological, then the safety, and the belongingness needs have to be met before someone can attain self-actualization. So from the Trait Theory perspective people have consistent and unique dispositions for behaving and there are five major dimensions of personality, openness, conscientiousness, extroversion, agreeableness and nervousness or neuroticism and recall also that traits lower our threshold for behaving in particular ways and that these traits exists on a continuum from low on one side to high on the other. And therefore we can plot any person's personality on a graph, just as we have here. So here are my scores after taking the big five personality test. So I was very high in openness to new experiences. I was medium low on conscientiousness, a little bit closer to the disorganized side. I was medium high on extroversion. I was high, quite high, on agreeableness and I was also quite low on nervousness or another way of saying that would be high on calmness and relaxation. And the nice thing about this personality questionnaire is you can compare other people too. So Lauren, for instance, took the same test. And here were her scores. We were very similar on openness to experience. She was higher on conscientiousness, very high on extroversion, you might have gotten a sense that she's very extroverted. She's also a very agreeable, medium high at least. And we're very similar on calmness, neither one of us gets too nervous and high strung. In order to understand social cognitive theories of personality, let's just look at this graph of two hypothetical people. A and B. So the basic idea is that these two people bring different interpretations to each situation. In this case, nine different situations. So on the horizontal axis, we have these social factors or the situation. And on the vertical axis, we have the probability that the person will act in a certain way, in this case, hostility. So overall you can see, this profile, that person A acts more hostility than person B in many of the situations. But not all. And if you took an average across all situations, person A would be more hostile than person B. So, social cognitive explanations of personality therefore argue that behavior is a result of this interaction. Between the personal and that is cognitive believes and the social, that is the situational factors, that is between internal and external forces. Some different people bring different beliefs and interpretations to each situation and therefore have different personalities. In this last section, we're going to switch gears one last time, and I want to start with a question. This is Helo. Do you think Helo has a personality that makes him unique from all other dogs? Yes or no? Well, the answer is yes, he does have a unique personality that makes him the good dog he is. We have no problem knowing that humans have personality. That they consistently act and think in unique ways that distinguish them from other people. But what about animals? Do cats, dogs or horses have personality? What about pigs or fish or octopi do they? Well mounting scientific evidence suggests that many species of mammals, birds, fish and even some invertebrates have unique traits of personality. Check all the different kinds of animals that you believe have distinct personalities. Humans, horses, chimps, gorillas, dogs, cats, pigs, rats, donkeys, chickadees, guppies. and octopi. Check all that apply. The correct answer is, all of these animals have distinct personalities. So how do we know that? Well, researchers gathered data from people who worked closely with animals for a long period of time and particular species of animals. Such as animal trainers, zoo keepers, and wildlife experts. The key was that people had to be very familiar with many individuals of a certain species, so they could rate unique behavioral tendencies, that is personality. What they found was that members of the same species acted in unique ways over a long period of time. That is they possess unique personality traits and surprisingly the dimensions of personality that we use for humans is relatively similar to those seen in animals. Let's look at this figure, here we see we have ocean. So open this to experience, conscientiousness, extroversion, agreeableness and neuroticism. Here we see that these animals have a unique trait of openness so they vary in their openness to new experiences. We see consciousness in chimpanzees and horses. So within these two species, there's a variation of how conscientious different animals are. As for extroversion, we see that nearly all of the animals, except the hyena, rat and chickadee show variations in being extroverted. Similar to extroversion we see agreeableness is seen in many animals, except for guppies, chickadees and octopus. And for neurotocism, we see that many animals exhibit this feature, except for a few. If you remember from the lesson on learning, we talked with Dr. Zeligs. She took some time out to talk with us about animals and personalities. So before I move forward, let's take a look at what she had to say about the personalities of some of the animals that she's worked with. So some people are surprised to know that animals have distinct personalities. And you have a ton of experience with animals, so can you tell us a little bit about your experience with their personalities? Now, what's amazing is animals run the same gambit of personalities as you see with human beings. You have animals who are really excited and engaged and task-driven. You have animals who are really relaxation-driven, who like to sit back and enjoy and be quiet. You know, what motivates someone runs across the gambit of things. So some are, are motivated by curiosity and some are motivated by food and some are motivated by activity. And all of these things make up some of what inspires, and then what makes up their personality, what, what attracts their attention. And what kinds of things they choose to engage in. So Sharkie, the sea lion is one of the most focused working women I have ever met in my life. And she would like to just have her job going on 12 to 14 hours a day. And as long as we could focus on making sure she's a star 12 to 14 hour, she's a diva. That, that's her, her the best life in the world for her. Callie on the other hand is a little bit more cuddly, she's a little bit more playful. She's not so much about needing to do a task as she is just being. She's got that relationship thing. She really wants to be with her best friends. And that's kind of what motivates her. What kind of things do they do when, like, if Sharkie is not working. What does she do when she wants to be working? Like, does she try to get your attention, or. Yeah, Sharkie will, will do all kinds of behaviors to try to get your attention. And she'll also take out her frustration on her environment when it's not going her way. She's got that real diva thing, you know? So she'll take her toys, and beat them side to side. Darnit, darnit, why isn't it my turn to be paid attention to. She'll give herself a job by swimming really frantically or doing spectacular jumps or, you know, trying to keep herself busy. She's definitely not a couch potato animal and then other the other hand, I've known loads of animals that sit back and relax and chill out when. When it's not their turn, they're perfectly fine with that. How about any other types of animals other than sea lions? It's the same. I mean I can't say I've ever worked with an amoeba but even the quote unquote lesser animals that I work with, even fish I have trained have distinct personalities. Some of them want to hover over here and like this kind of security and feel like they need security. And others of them are extroverted. And are very attentive and curious. And that's, that's with monkeys, with tortoises with otters, with everything that you can imagine. They have just a different natural set of ways of interacting with their environment. And you see it in terms of whether they act out in their environment or whether they're more wary. How playful they are. How active they are. What kinds of things they like and don't like. So where you see the most extreme of personality is the long lived super social animals. And so that's because natural history sort of require the most complexity in order to work with their world. Their broad social world is, is a big component of it. So that's where you see the, just the most diversity of it. Less, less programming and more learning from the environment is what's, what's going on. You see, the sort of, least personality in the animals that have a much more fixed action pattern type of life history. So, a snake or a lesser bird. But even in those you'll see preferences and attitudes towards collecting prey you know, certain snakes will need it to move and other snakes don't really care. And you know and what they like the warm rock but as long as it's high up here or that, you know. So there's, there's all of that and it goes across the animal spectrum for sure. So, in this lesson, we've learned many different things about what personality is, what it's dimensions are, how we measure it. What are the causes of personality, and even whether animals have personality. So, for instance, we've seen that personality is uniquely behaving in a similar way over time and in many different situations. So, the basic dimensions of personality are the so called big five or ocean dimensions. So, openness, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism. We've also seen how personality is measured both qualitatively and quantitatively. Qualitatively, we measure personality through interviews and ink box. And quantitatively we measure it through self report and behavioral observations. We've also seen how personality and the causes of personality can be studied through twin adoption studies. So, to see how genes and environment play a role in our personalities. And then finally, we have seen how animals, nonhuman animals, share some personality traits common with humans. So, for instance, extroversion and neuroticism. Social psychology is an area that many students find endlessly fascinating. Which isn't surprising, because we're humans. We're social creatures. When we're infants, we need other people to take care of us or we wouldn't survive. So it comes as no surprise that other individuals actually can influence how we think, feel, and behave. And that's what social psychology is. It's the study of how other people affect our thoughts, behaviors, and feelings, and in fact, as you're going to see, it's not only the actual presence of other people that can affect us. It's the perceived presence. So people who aren't even there can affect how we think, feel, and behave. Let's go to Susan for more detail about this lesson. In this lesson, we're going to look at living in groups and the social influence of others. And we're going to do so by breaking the lesson into three sections. In the first section, we're going to look at forces that change our behavior and this includes social facilitation and social loafing as well as conformity and obedience. In the second part of the lesson we're going to look at social forces that change our perception and attitudes towards others. And this includes social perception theory and attribution theory as well as inclusion and exclusion. Prejudice and discrimination, as well as our attitudes and our behaviors. And then finally in the third section we're going to look at how we act towards others. And this includes aggressiveness and pro-social behavior, as well as who we like, attraction, and what love is. But let's get started with social forces. I remember back in junior high school when one of my friends was having a party. Everybody was talking about the invitations that they got, what they were going to wear to the party, how exciting it was going to be. And given that I had been invited to parties in this group of friends in the past, I had assumed that I would be invited to this one as well. However, it turns out that I realized quite quickly I was not invited to this party. And I remember feeling a pit in my stomach, I was angry, I was sad, I was envious. And most of all I felt pain. I had just experienced my first harsh encounter with social rejection. I want you to try something. Look at this line. Now look at these three lines. Which of these lines, a, b, or c, is closest to the first line I showed you, or the standard line? The correct answer is B. This line is closest to the standard line. Here, let's try it again. Here's your standard line. Now, which one of these three lines is closest to the standard line? The answer is C. So, if I did this about 18 times, do you think you'd get it right most of the time? Well you probably would, but now I want you to try it with help from Greg and me. So here's your standard line. I want you to tell me which line you think is closest in length to the standard line I showed you. I think it's this one. I think it's this one. Type in the correct letter in this box. Let's try it again. Here's your standard circle. Which one is closest in size to the standard circle? I think it's this one. I think it's this one. Let's try it again. Here's your standard circle. Which one do you think is closest in size to the standard circle? I think it's this one. I think it's this one. Let's try it again. Here's your standard square. Which one do you think is closest to the standard square? I think it's this one. I think it's this one. And one last time. Here's your standard triangle. Which one do you think is closest to the standard sized triangle? I think it's this one. I think that one's right. So the correct answer to this one is A. Now this might have been a little tedious, but this was sort of an example of a research experiment that we're going to get into on conformity. So let's talk about it in more detail. What you just saw, was almost a recreation of the Solomon Asch study, a really famous social psychology study on conformity. What they did was they showed their participants a standard line, and then had them compare it to three other lines, kind of like the one I showed you. They had them do this about 18 times. Now, this was a relatively easy task, when the independent variable wasn't manipulated. People messed up less than 1% of the time. However, when the independent variable was manipulated, people messed up about 37% of the time. So, what was the independent variable. Well, it was the people that were in the room saying the response is allowed. Out of all of the people in the room there was only one real participant. The rest of the people were confederates. Meaning they worked for the research team, but they appeared to be real participants. After a while of answering these questions, the researchers had the confederates, incorrectly answer the question, on purpose. Because they wanted to see if hearing these five or six people answer the question incorrectly, would actually sway the participants' response. And well, as it turns out, it did. Let's go to Susan for some more details. Solomon Asch found that 76% of the people conformed with a group approximately 37% of the time. So conformity is when people change their behavior to adjust to what others are doing. Or they change their behavior to adhere to cultural norms. And as we see, people go to great lengths to conform with others. And this often happens in decision making. And psychologists have a technical term for this and it's called group think. And group think can be dangerous because an individual may forego critical analysis or logic in attempts just to fit in with the group. For example, some psychologists and historians have suggested that Kennedy's behavior in the Bay of Pigs actually resulted from group think. In addition to specifically looking at conformity, social psychologists also look at social factors that pressure us to act in certain ways. And here we're talking about social norms. Now social norms are rules of acceptable behavior that are imposed on us by our culture. And norms actually vary by culture. For example, maybe you can think of a social norm that's specific to your culture. For example, when I was younger, I was living and working in Tokyo. And I was very unfamiliar with the Japanese culture. But there was one social norm that I noticed right away, that was different from the way I grew up. And that was that the Japanese kept their shoes outside their door. Perhaps you can think of some social norms and talk about those on the forum. Now what I realized later is that the Japanese kept their shoes outside of their house. Not only for practical purpose, such as keeping the house clean, but also for spiritual purposes. But now let's go back to Lauren and look a little bit more specifically at conformity. There are two reasons why conformity may occur, they are informational social influence and normative social influence. Let's start with the informational social influence. This happens when people conform to the behavior of others because they view the other people as a source of knowledge regarding what they're supposed to do or how they're supposed to act. Have you ever found yourself in a new situation and were unsure of how to act or what to do? Did you look to others to see how they were behaving? Well this is an example of informational social influence. Consider a freshman starting college, the person may look around to see how other people are behaving in the lunchroom for example. Do people take their food off their trays to eat, do they keep their food on their trays? Do they mostly sit outside, do they sit inside this usually happens in situations that are ambiguous, or in a novel situation. That's when we are most likely to see the informational social influence occur. The next influence on our behavior will be quite obvious when you stop and think about some examples in your own life. This is normative social influence, and it explains a lot of our behavior. For example, do you dress similarly to your friends? Do you listen to the same type of music as your friends? Have you ever tried drugs or alcohol to be accepted by a particular social group? Well if you've changed your behavior in order to gain acceptance by a particular social group, social psychologists would say that this is due to normative social influence. Let's look at these examples ,first let's say you saw a movie with a group of friends and you weren't sure how you felt about the movie until you were walking out and your group of friends start talking about how much they love the movie. And you find yourself liking the movie more and more ,now let's look at this scenario you walk into a waiting room of an office building and you see people writing their daily schedules all over the wall with markers so after a while in the waiting room, you pick up a marker and start writing your weekly schedule on the wall as well. So is scenario one a normative social influence or an informational social influence? And same question for scenario two. Write the corresponding letter in the box for the appropriate type of social influence. Scenario one is a normative social influence. Scenario two is an informational social influence, because you're gathering information from those around you about what you should do or how you should act. So in addition to conformity, another way in which people influence us is authority figures can sometimes get us to do what we may not even want to do. That is, obedience to authority. Now, in fact one of the most famous studies in all of psychology was on that topic, obedience to authority. And it was carried out in the 1960s. By the Yale University psychologist Stanley Milgram. And Milgram was driven to understand and ask the question. How is it that Germans can send so many innocent people to their deaths? Because the standard answer at the time was, well we were just following orders. So Milgram wanted to understand whether authority and obedience to authority could explain such a tragic event. So what do you think? Do you think obedience to authority could lead people to hurt or even kill people? Well, sadly the answer is yes. And we're going to now hand it over to Susan to talk more about the details of the Milgram study. In Milgram's study, he obviously could not tell the participants that it was a study on obedience to authority. Instead, he told them it was a study of memory. And here you can see the original advertisement that Milgram used. When the participant arrived, there were always two other people present. One was Milgram, who was the experimenter and then there was another person. And Milgram had these two people draw slips to determine whether they're going to be a teacher or they're going to be a learner. Unbeknownst to the participant the person who was with Milgram was actually confederate. Meaning that person was working for Milgram. Therefore, when they chose slips, Milgram had arranged it that the real participant was always the teacher, and the learner was a confederate, or a person who was working with Milgram. Now remember the participant thought this was a study on memory. So Milgram told the participant that he was going to read a series of words and that the other participant, the learner, who was a confederate, would have to remember those words. Every time the learner would get a word incorrect, the teacher was to deliver a shock. The learner was to memorize those word lists. And provide correct answers. And during the study Milgram, who was the experimenter, observed the teacher and provided instruction. So here the teacher thought that he was to read words and deliver shocks, but in fact Milgram was testing that participants level of obedience aAs well as his willingness to inflict pain to the learner. Now, remember the learner was a confederate working for Milgram, and he did not receive any actual shocks. And he actually didn't even respond to the word lists. All of the responses were pre-programmed. And finally MIlgram served as the authority figure in this study and he was positioned next to the teacher while the teacher was reading the words and supposedly delivering the shocks. So we had the teacher, the learner and Milgram. Now let's go into a little more details on the specific methods of the experiment. The teacher and learner were to be tested in seperate rooms, but before the learner left, the teacher actually was hooked up to the shock machine and received a very small shock. And this was to let the teacher know that the shock generator actually worked. And also so the teacher was aware of the type of shocks that the learner would experience. Millgram instructed the teacher to provide a shock for every incorrect response. And, they would start at the low end of the shock generator. And with each consecutive incorrect response, the teacher had to provide a shock. And, that went up on the shock generator to 450 volts. So here's the experimental arrangement. Here we had the teacher, who is sitting in front of the voltage machine, and notice that the learner is in a separate room. Remember, the learner is the confederate and when the study began, he actually just left the room. All of the responses were pre-programmed. Notice, too, that Milgram was sitting near the teacher as he was observing that person. Before we continue describing the experiment, what percentage of people do you think would go all the way to 450 volts? Think about it for a minute and type your response here. Before I give you the actual results of the experiment, Milgram surveyed experts in the area such as psychiatrists. And asked them to predict how many people would go up to 450 volts. He found from his research that 30% of the people thought the teacher would administer a shock as high as 150 volts. Less than 4% of the experts thought that the teacher would deliver a shock at 300 volts. And only one person in a 1,000 would go all the way to 450 volts. At first the experiment was uneventful, the teacher delivered the smaller shocks in the shock generator whenever the learner made an error. However, as the shocks increased in intensity, many of the teachers became very uncomfortable and unsure about continuing. When the teachers expressed to Milgram that they didn't want to continue, Milgram would tell the teacher that the experiment must continue. You must continue with the experiment. So, every time the teacher tried to ask Milgram to stop, he told them that they were unable to do so and they needed to continue delivering the shocks. While the teacher was administering the shocks, he heard some preprogrammed responses from the learner. For example, at 90 volts, the learner would yell ugh. And its at these times when the teacher became uncomfortable and would tell Milgram, I want to stop. And recall, Milgram would say, you must continue, the experiment must go on. At 150 volts, The teacher would hear the learner yell "get me out of here! My heart's starting to bother me. I refused to go on. Let me out!". Here again, the teacher will become uncomfortable and tell Milgram that he wanted to stop. In each instance, Milgram reminded the person that he had to continue with the experiment and that he could not leave. Finally, when the volts went past 330, the teacher would hear no response from the learner at all. And this implied that the leaner was either unconcious, or worse. Remember when Milgram asked those experts how many people would go up to 450 volts? Well, they were very wrong. In fact, in his results he found that 65% of the participants went all the way to 450 volts. Also, there were no differences in the sexes, meaning men and women were equally likely to go all the way up to 450 volts. Interestingly, adding the yelling of the learner at 150 volts, where he yelled, 'Let me out of here. I don't want to continue,' did decrease obedience from 100% to down to 83%. It's important to point out that the participants were debriefed, and told after the study, what the study was actually about. And they were reunited, the teacher and the learner and the teacher could see that the learner was actually never harmed. Milgram conducted a series of studies in this area and changed some of the variables. For example, he changed the attire of the researcher. It turns out that people were more likely to obey when the researcher was wearing a white lab coat, than when the researcher was more casually dressed, like here. In one experiment, he changed the proximity of the teacher and the learner, and removed the barrier so they could see each other. In these situations, the teacher was much less likely to go all the way to 450 volts. These are called systematic replications of the original research study. So, it turns out that there are many variables that influenced obedience to authority. Now, let's go to Greg to talk a little bit more in-depth about the ethics of this Milgram experiment. So Stanley Milgram did debrief his participants. That is, he told them exactly what the study was about and he made it very clear to them that they never hurt anybody. But that's not to say that the study was without controversy. In fact, remember that the participants really experienced serious and real mental anguish and distress. When they thought they were hurting people. Now in fact, only 5% of the people though, said that they regretted participating in the study. But the controversy, was started. After Milgram /g, there was a real serious debate, in and outside of psychology, about what was ethically okay, in human research. So let's look more carefully at the ethics of Stanley Milgram's study. So what is it that he first did, well, he first recruited participants by telling them that this was a study on learning and punishment. And we now know that was a lie, it was deceptive. But is that okay, is it okay in this case? To use that kind of deception in research. What do you think? So, although we often think of deception as bad. And in many cases it is. But even by today's standards, what Milgrim did, in his research, was actually not unethical in terms of the deception. Because he did two things. He debriefed his participants. And it was a necessary part of the design. In fact if you think about it, research often needs to use some degree of deception because if we told participants in advance what the study was about, and what our hypotheses were, it would completely invalidate the results. So what was unethical by today's standards however was when Milgram told participants that they had no choice but to continue in the research even when they didn't want to. Now to be fair to Milgram he was not breaking any rules because there were no rules at the time about how to treat participants and what they could and couldn't do. But in fact as a result of Milgram's study, those rules came into existence as guidelines. Now, remember from lesson two that the essence of these guidelines are first, that every participant sign a consent form. Every participant be told in this consent form that they can withdraw at any time, without penalty, and finally, that every participant be told afterwards what the study was about. And that is, debriefed. If you think this wouldn't happen these days or you wouldn't fall prey to what happened in Milgram's experiment you would be interested to know that Jerry Berger from Santa Clara University recently redid this experiment and found almost the same results. This would be a great time to go to the forum and discuss whether or not you think this research study should have been conducted. Now, Berger did get approval from the HSIRB, Human Committee Research Board and they did change informed consent a little bit. But head to the forum and discuss this. It should be pretty interesting. Now let's go to Lauren and start the second part of this lesson on social perception. Other people change our behavior by way of things like obedience and conformity. But they can also influence our perception, beliefs and attitudes. That's what social perception is. Social processes influence our behavior, but they can also influence our perception of other people's behavior. We often wonder why people do what they do. That is, we try to make sense of our social world, and that is social perception. Now, when we try to explain what causes other people's behavior, we do so through a process psychologists call attributions. Attributions are inferences we make about what causes other people's behavior. For example, why did she say that or, what caused him to do that. During this section, we want to pay particular attention to different times in our lives where we may have used dispositional or situational attributions. But first, let's find out what those two things are. Let's say you meet a new classmate and you agree at a local coffee shop to study. You've met this person at the coffee shop three different occasions, and on each occasion the person's late. After the third time the person comes late you think to yourself that this person is just lazy. Or maybe they're selfish because whatever they're doing must be so much more important than meeting you on time. This is an example of dispositional attribution, because you're explaining the person's behavior from an internal cause, that is that they're lazy. So dispositional attributions are when we explain other people's behavior as being due to something from within the individual, such as a person's personality, talent, attitude, or motivation. So let's take this example again of a person being repeatedly late to a study session. Perhaps you think the reason why the person's late is because they've gotten caught up with something at work and couldn't leave on time. Or perhaps because there was traffic or the person was home helping their sick mother. If you were to use one of these reasons for explaining the individual's tardiness, then you would be using situational attribution. A situational attribution, is when we think that something outside of a person, such as the nature of a situation or circumstance is the cause of the behavior. Now here's the really really way to think about. Are you more likely to use situational attributions, or dispositional attributions? That is, are you more likely to think that the person is responsible for what happens, or the situation? Well, as it turns out, different situations call for different types of attribution. For example, when evaluating our own behaviour, whether we succeed or fail might influence what kind of attributions we use. For example, say we did really poorly on a biology test, we might blame the fact that a professor was horrible or we didn't know what was going to be on the test, or that the test was poorly written. On the other hand, say we got an A on a statistic exam, we might attribute this good grade to the fact that we're really smart or we're really good at statistics. So the attributions we use may depend on the situation. What we just described is termed self serving bias. And a self serving bias is when we have the tendency to make situational attributions for our failures, and dispositional attributions for our successes. And the reason we asked you to pay so close attention to this attribution theory is because of this self serving bias. Now, when I first started teaching psychology and covered this topic, I was actually quite surprised by how often I used dispositional attributions to explain other people's behavior. And now that I'm aware of it, I try to first look at perhaps situational attributions. For example, if my friend doesn't call me back, I try to look at perhaps reasons such as her phone is dead, or maybe she's on the phone with her boyfriend, or she had to work late, instead of using a dispositional attribution and saying perhaps she's lazy or selfish. Can you think of any times in your life when you've used a situational attribution instead of a dispositional one, or vice versa? In addition to attributions we also use schemas to make sense of our world. Do you remember when we talked about schemas and how as humans we try to categorize things? Well, we do this with our social world when trying to form impressions of other people, especially in ambiguous situations. And one way to do this is through stereotypes. Stereotypes are schemas of how people are likely to act, based on the group they belong to. We stereotypes that draw inferences about people based on the knowledge we have of the categories to which they belong. You may have stereotypes that you're not even aware of. Have you ever heard of these stereotypes? Athletes are dumb. Blondes are ditzy. Or even, professors are absent-minded. Now, we don't endorse these stereotypes, but they are, in fact, stereotypes. And as we'll see, stereotypes can help us save time, and they allow us to make an impression of somebody that we don't know very well. However, even though stereotypes can save time, they can have negative results. So what we'll see in this lesson is that stereotypes can be inaccurate, they can be self-perpetuating, they can be overused and they can be automatic. Let's look at the idea of a stereotyping self-perpetuating in a little more detail. For example, let's say you have a stereotype that professors are older men, who listen to classical music, and drink fine wine. Now if you meet somebody who doesn't fall into that stereotype, we're actually likely to ignore that information. For example, you meet a professor who's a young woman, who listens to rock and roll, and drinks beer. In this situation, we may modify our stereotype, and then women would be the exception to the rule. However, the stereotype that professors are men who listen to classical music and drink wine will remain. To continue our discussion on stereotypes, we're going to go back to Dr Markie Blumer, who you may remember from the motivation and emotions lesson. She's going to talk about gender stereotypes. Can we talk a little bit about how women and men may be discriminated against, because of their sexual behavior? Right. So, actually this idea of sort of what we would call maybe gender stereotypes around sexuality and sexual behavior for both men and women, they do lead to discrimination. women being people who tend to hold less power in places pretty much all over the world. that isn't different in terms of sexual contact so, they've typically had less power. What I mean by that is that they've had less of a voice. Less freedom around their sexual behaviors, practices, their beliefs, as well as their dress. Sexual stereotypes and gender stereotypes actually hurt both people. so, just as women have been confined or relegated to certain positions in terms of sexual stereotypes and gender stereotypes. Things like if they dress a certain way then, then they are expecting to have people, flirt with them or hit on them. Or, or they should you know, engage in sexual behavior because they're dressed certain way. So, they are asking for it. Those types of practices are again ways that women's gender and the expectations men and women have of their gender around sex have, have harmed them. There's been a lot of discrimination, a lot of pain and suffering associated with that for women. women enjoying sex have been called all sorts of names. Women who have more sexual partners than men have also been called all sorts of names. Really harmful things. Lots of shaming that's taken place. but if you look at those stereotypes for men, it's also pretty bad. The differences that they typically have more power in society. So, they aren't harmed in quite the same way. But there are stereotypes that also do affect them, things like men should want to have sex. They should want to have sex with lots of people. if they don't want to do these things, then they're not really a man, and there's something wrong with them. And they get called all sorts of names as well, typically names that are pejoratively feminine. so, again that's denigrating to women and men. but definitely, people of, of genders, men and women genders, have been harmed by the stereotypes that exist around sexuality for both of them. And we really all have to work together to understand that all people regardless of their genitalia and their gender identification, have the right to be self loving and loving of each other in sexual manners if they have the freedom a desire to so choose to be. This brings us to a very important consequence of stereotypes, and that's called stereotype threat. Which are situations in which people are aware they belong to the minority, and this awareness negatively affects their performance on a task. Let's look at this example of a research study done by Steele and Aronson. The researchers have African-American and Caucasian students take a test. Half of the students were asked to write their race at the top of the test. Afterwards, they analyzed the results. Do you think they found a difference between the group who wrote their race at the beginning of the test as compared to those who did not? Yes or no? If you say yes, why? And if you say no, why? The answer is yes. They actually did find a difference between the two groups. And this was due to stereotype threat. Let's talk a little more about that. They found that students who were not asked to list their race performed well, and as for the students who were asked to list their race they found that African American students became really anxious and performed poorly on their test. This is what we meant earlier about stereo types possibly perpetuating themselves, here we see that stereotypes can influence an individual to behave in a way that confirms the stereotype. So why is this important? Well, think of a stereotype such as girls don't do well in math or science. Or men aren't emotionally aware. If you're in one of these categories, for example a girl, and you're aware of the stereotype it can actually influence your overall performance. This is quite fascinating and important to be aware of because the stereotype girls are not good at math might prevent girls from going into a field that's heavy in math or even may cause individual girls to perform poorly on a math exams. Can you think of any stereotype groups that you may belong to? And how this could possibly affect your performance on different tasks? This is a great topic for the discussion forums. However, it's a sensitive topic so please be respectful. Now, let's go to Susan who has an example for us. Maybe you have the stereotype that women don't like hockey. Well I'm here to be the exception to the rule for your stereotype, because I love hockey. Wait, let me clarify that. I'm a Detroit Red Wings fan. That's right, I have only one team that I'm in favor of, and that's the Detroit Red Wings. Now when I was living in Michigan in the Detroit area, I would run into other Red Wings fans all the time. Everywhere we went somebody had on a t-shirt, they had on their hats. They had on their jerseys. And it was awesome. But now that we're talking about the Red Wings, that's going to bring us to our next topic. Let me set the scene. Throughout the years as a Red Wings fan I've had the great opportunity to watch my team win multiple Stanley Cup championships, and it's been awesome. And throughout those years we've also seen a few pesky teams that prevented my team from moving forward in the playoffs. One of those teams was the San Jose Sharks. Now, I really had no opinion of them other than that they were a team that sometimes got in the way. Fast-forward a few years and I find myself living in enemy territory with the San Jose Sharks and their fans. It turns out, unfortunately, that a lot of the fans don't like the Red Wings, or Red Wings fans. Now, how do I know that? I know because I've experienced first hand what it's like to be treated as an outsider. I'll never forget the time when I finished teaching my general psychology course, ran down to my office, and put on my Wings gear, and went down to catch the bus to watch the game. I got on the bus, and I realized that I was in a sea of teal, all Sharks fans. And immediately they all started booing me. Some people had some off color remarks about my team. And they were yelling me go back to Detroit. Well, I can tell you from that experience it was obvious that I was a part of the out group, and not a part of the in group. As you can imagine, the bus ride was a little uncomfortable. There were a few people who were kind of nice to me. I think they felt badly because I was getting picked on, but for the majority of the ride people were booing me. Here's the interesting part. When I got to the arena I saw a lot of Detroit Red Wings fans. They were wearing their jerseys, had their hats on, and we smiled at each other, we high five. We yelled, go wings, and here I had total strangers, but I felt a part of that in-group. And I did not feel a part of the San Jose Sharks, that would be the out-group. Now this example of showing positive feelings toward people in our own group and negative feelings towards people in other groups. We see is termed In-group/Out-group bias. This tendency for all the Sharks fans to see members of the out-group, for example, the Red Wings fans is known as out-group homogeneity. Out-group homogeneity is the tendency to see all members of an out-group as the same. Now besides sports, can you think of any examples of in-group/out-group bias? Take a few moments to think about it and type your response here. I bet you'll come up with some good ones. Did you have any of these as your answers. Nationality perhaps, ethnicity, college. For example, seeing those who went to Central Michigan University as an out group if you went to Western Michigan University. Or perhaps a fraternity or sorority. Even gender Gangs and cliques at school, are all examples of potential in-group/out-group bias. Now let's move on to another area in the study of social psychology and social behavior. And that is the unfortunate bias of prejudice and resulting discrimination. Prejudice is a biased attitude toward a group of people or an individual member of a group based on unfair generalizations about what members of that group are like. Such prejudicial thinking is often the result of stereotypes. Instead of resulting from a careful observation of people's behavior. If we have a prejudice that is based on race or ethnicity we call that racism. Or if we have a prejudice based on the sexes. We call that sexism. There is a lot of very interesting research, especially in the area of industrial organizational psychology, that looks at both prejudice and discrimination. So, remember that prejudice is a biased attitude. But when that attitude changes to behavior. We see that discrimination can occur. Discrimination is a preferential treatment of certain people usually driven by prejudicial attitudes. Psychologists have suggested that prejudice operates both inside and outside of our awareness. That is, we may be aware of our prejudice. But we may also hold a prejudicial view without being aware of it. Now, how do we know this? And how can we measure it? Two researchers, Banaji and Greenwald, suspected that there was a disconnect between people's conscious and unconscious views of prejudice. And they developed a very interesting way to measure this. Go to the link below in the Instructor's notes section, and take the test for racism. How did you feel about your results, did you think that the test was accurate? Many students are surprised to find out that they have implicit biases towards different groups of people. Now, as you saw from the website, they are many different implicit association tests. For example, on gun control or politics. And I strongly encourage you to try these out, and discuss them on the forums with your peers. We briefly mentioned attitudes earlier in this lesson, but now we're going to take a look at attitudes in a bit more detail. First, we can define attitudes as an individual's favorable or unfavorable beliefs, feelings or actions toward an object, an idea or a person. How do you feel about birth control, or abortions? Or what about guns, or even the Detroit Red Wings? Well, we can look at attitudes towards one of these examples by examining the three components of our attitudes. Given my earlier discussion about the Red Wings, let's use that as an example. Attitudes are comprised of three components. First, we have the affective component. And this includes our feelings and emotions that are associated with our belief. In my example, my affective component towards the red wings would consist of enthusiasm, excitement, price and overall happiness. Now, let's move on to talk about the second component and that is the behavioural component The second component is the behavioral component. And this refers to the ways in which I behave towards the Red Wings. Well obviously I buy a lot of Red Wings material. If the Red Wings are on TV, I'll watch a game. If I don't have access to a TV, I'll listen to them on the radio. When the Red Wings come to town, I'll buy a ticket and go see them. And this year, I even went to the hotel where they stayed so I could to try to meet some of my Red Wings. Obviously, I have a strong behavioral component in my attitude towards the Red Wings. And the third component is the cognitive component. And this refers to the rational thoughts and beliefs that make up my attitude towards the Red Wings. So here, I know things such as how many Stanley Cup championships we won, 11. When we first started the league in 1926. I know the famous Red Wing players, such as Gordie Howe, Ted Lindsay, Steve Yzerman, Brendan Shanahan, Nick Lindstrom. I know all the players' names and numbers. I know the rules of the game, I know the coaches, and I even know the hometown announcers. All those are cognitive components of my attitude towards the Red Wings. Let's go back and finish up this part on attitudes. We've discussed two of the components so far. First, we had the affective component, which was our feelings and emotions. And as we just saw with my example of the red wings, we had the behavioral component. And this is a tendency to act in a certain way toward something. Clearly, you could see how I act towards the red wings. And the third component, of our attitudes, is the cognitive component. And this is our thoughts, beliefs, and ideas about something. Our attitudes can vary in terms of how heavily each component is weighed. That is, you may have a more cognitive component for some attitudes, for example, maybe the best way to make cheese fondue. It may be more heavily weighted from the cognitive component as opposed to something such as your attitude towards abortion, which may have a more affective component. Although most of our basic attitudes may be instinctive, we do know that some of our attitudes are learned. Psychologists are not the only people who are interested in attitudes, advertisers are as well. In fact, many psychology majors go into the field of advertising. Because they learn about what motivates people, what influences people or limits to sensation and perception, as well as how to measure satisfactions. All of these things, motivation, influence, and sensation, and perception are involved in advertising. Advertisers as well as many individuals engage in something called persuasion. Persuasion is the phenomenon of changing someone's beliefs or attitudes via communication by another person. I want to stop real quick and ask you a question. Are you enjoying this psychology class? Tell me on a scale of one to ten. One being you absolutely hate it. Ten being you love it and you can't wait for new material to come out. Or you sat at your computer one day and did all of the available lessons because it was too much fun to stop. And if you like the class at all, would you mind changing your profile picture to this picture on your social media page? Thanks, we appreciate your feedback. What I just did is a form of persuasion that we're going to discuss in a minute. But I do want you to know that we really do appreciate your feedback and its valued. And I really hope that you are in fact enjoying the class. But for now let's get back to a discussion of persuasion. Let's look at this study. One group of researchers went to a neighborhood and knocked on the front doors of people's houses and asked them to put up a large, somewhat ugly sign in their front yard that said drive carefully. 17% of homeowners agreed to do so. A second group of homeowners were first asked to sign a petition that was to be submitted to state representatives. They would promote safe driving after they signed the petition they were then asked to install the large of the sign and 55% of them actually agreed to put the sign in their lawn, now why is it that 17% of the first group agreed, but 55% in the second group agreed and the sign was the exact same sign. This can be explained by the specific technique of persuasion called foot-in-the-door technique. And this is asking for a small request first, such as will you sign this petition. And then followed up by a larger request such as, will you put this huge sign in your front yard. People use this technique quite often. Perhaps you've gotten a request from a charitable organization for a small donation, only to find out that you later receive requests for even larger donations. Those organizations are using this technique. Or, when I asked you if you liked my class, and then I asked you to change your profile picture, this is the foot in the door technique. But let's go to Susan for other techniques of persuasion. Thanks, Lauren. I'm going to start by asking you two questions. First, let's say that you were on a limited budget. What would you do if a phone solicitor called and asked you for a donation of $100? Would you give it to the person? Yes or no? Okay. Thank you for answering that one. Now I'm going to ask you the second question. And that is, what would you do if that same organization called and asked you for a donation of $15? Would you give that? Think about it for a moment and choose yes or no. Okay, let's see how you answered. These two questions were actually a technique that's called the door-in-the-face technique. Here, a person will ask for a larger request that is most likely a bit over the top, and then when the result is no, they ask for a smaller request. Here's an example I experienced personally. When I was in graduate school and on a limited budget, I received a phone call from a firefighter's association looking to raise money for firefighters and their families. I was a big supporter of the firefighters. However, the person asked if I could donate $100. And I actually did not have $100 available to donate. And I told them sorry, that that was too much. And immediately the person said, oh well, can you perhaps give $15? And right away I said sure, I can give $15. And the idea here again is that this was a technique called the door-in-the-face, and it's actually quite effective. Asking for something that is large and maybe not typical, a person's likely to say no. When you followup with a more reasonable request, a person is typically more likely to respond positively. Can you think of any personal experiences with these two techniques that we discussed? Perhaps you can share them on the forum. So far, we've discussed one theory of how to change someone's attitudes. And that's through persuasion. However, there's another theory that explains how and why we change our attitudes. And that's the theory of cognitive dissonance. Cognitive dissonance is the feelings of discomfort we get when we're presented with information that is inconsistent with how we perceive ourselves as a sensible, reasonable, human being. Let's go to Susan for some more details about this. Naturally, we don't like feeling uncomfortable. Therefore we're motivated to try to decrease that overall level of discomfort. Remember in the lesson on consciousness, I talked about drugs? And specifically I talked about all the negative effects of smoking tobacco. In that lesson I asked students who were smokers to consider that negative information. And I did so in a hopes to try to motivate some people to quit smoking. Now what happens when you realize there are negative consequences for smoking? Well, we want to decrease those negative feelings that we experience. So how do we do this? Well, there are three options that we can use to help to decrease the discomfort that we experience. And the first is that we can change our behavior to make it more consistent with our dissonant cognition. So here for example the person may try to quit smoking using a nicotine patch or perhaps a self help group. The second way we can do so is to try to justify our behavior. And to justify our behavior, we try to make our cognitions more consistent with the behavior that we're engaging in. So the person may say to themselves that smoking's not that bad for me and all that research is mostly correlational. And the third way we can attempt to decrease said discomfort is by adding new cognitions that are consistent and support our behavior. Here the person may say, I just enjoy smoking and I think it's worth it, therefore I'm not concerned about the risks. Let's look at another example of cognitive dissonance and see how to help decrease the discomfort caused by cognitive dissonance. Let's say we have a person who is cheating on her lover. Can you think of examples that fit into each of the three categories that we discussed that might help decrease that discomfort caused by the dissonance? First, how might the person change her behavior. Well one thing she could do is end the affair. Second, she could try to justify her behavior. For example, perhaps she says that she's not hurting anybody by having the affair. Third she may try to change her ideas or her thoughts in order to justify her behavior. For example, maybe she says, I'm pretty sure he cheated on me, or if he can cheat, I can cheat. Now, before I move on to the next area of social relations, I'd like you to think about any personal experiences that you have had that have resulted in cognitive dissonance. What did you do to try to decrease the uncomfortable feelings that you experienced? The topic of aggression is of great importance in our lives. In fact, there's not way around it that we experience aggression in our lives. And other animals engage in aggressive behavior to get the resources that they want. So, we can define aggression as violent behavior that is intended to cause psychological or physical harm, or both, to another individual or being. Now, why are we aggressive? Chances are, we're often aggressive because we've been provoked. And we engage in aggressive behavior because we've been provoked by feelings of anger. We call that hostile aggression. I'll be honest with you and then share an experience of hostile aggression that I had last week when I was walking at the campus. I was crossing the street and I had the walk sign. And another car came around and almost hit me. Now as a frequent pedestrian, this was not the first time it almost happened to me, but I was very upset. And I started to yell at the driver, and I had a few choice words to say to him. Now my hostility was limited in anger to yelling at the person. But in some cases, we see people, maybe more aggressive, and try to hit the person or chase after the car. In fact, the term road rage has been developed to explain such hostility the driver sometimes experience. Some psychologists have suggested the Frustration Aggression Hypothesis. And this hypothesis states that we're likely to experience aggression when we're frustrated from not being able to meet our goals. Here's a simple example. A dog sees a piece of meat fall on the ground. That's his goal. A cat comes along and is also tempted to get that piece of meat. That is the frustration, and then the dog attacks the cat. That would be the aggression. Although this explains some of our behavior, psychologists have suggested that the frustration we experience from not being able to meet our goals is what results in aggression. And interestingly we see this aggression in other animals. For example, if rats are shocked in a laboratory, they will attack just about anything in their cage, including another animal, a stuffed doll, or even a tennis ball. But let's go to Grey to look at another type of aggression. So, in addition to hostile aggression, we also have what's known as instrumental aggression. And instrumental aggression occurs when someone acts aggressively. But in the service of achieving some particular goal. Good examples of this happen often in sports. So, for instance, in hockey. Let's say someone body checks someone real hard into the boards. In order to prevent that person from getting the puck. This is instrumental aggression, because it's used in the service of achieving a goal, in this case preventing the guy from getting the puck. This is different from hostile aggression. Now we're going to go to Lauren, for a word on biology and aggression. So what about biology in aggression? It turns out that overall gender is the best predictor of aggression. Men being more likely to commit crimes such as murder, battery and assault. Culture may also account for some of this in that aggressiveness may be a product of socialization. It appears that many societies encourage males to be more aggressive than females. But our biology clearly plays a role too. Do you remember when we discussed testosterone in our less non-motivational emotion? Well, testosterone is a male sex hormone. However, you'll recall that women also have testosterone and that's important for our sexual response. We see that testosterone is related to aggression. In that those with higher levels of testosterone correlate positively with the tendency towards aggression and violence. Now something else that's important to aggression is serotonin. It turns out that low levels of serotonin actually make aggression more likely in humans as well as in other animals. So we see that our biology plays a role in aggression and our social influences can play a role in aggression. Now, are boys aggressive in the same way as girls? And how does the social world influence our aggressive behaviors. We see that boys may model other boys or men and imitate aggressive behaviors such as, punching, kicking and so forth. And then as for girls, we do see that they can be physically aggressive. Often times, girls engage in what we call indirect aggression. That's not necessarily hitting or punching but engaging in behaviors that may exclude an individual. For example, girls may be more likely to talk badly about a person, spread rumors about a person or make fun of a person. Or generally just engage in ways to psychologically hurt an individual. We can argue that the pain of being punched in the face or having rumors spread about you can be very similar. Because as we've said a few times, the experience of physical and psychological pain both activate the same areas of the brain. Now, let's go back to Susan Thanks, Lauren. We see that aggression is a part of our lives. However, on the bright side, we also see that as humans we engage in pro-social behavior. We would like to start this part of the lesson by going back to the first lesson on what is psychology? Do you remember when we talked about Kitty Genovese? Recall that Kitty Genovese was walking home to her apartment after work late one night. And a man attacked her outside of her apartment building, she screamed and people turned their lights on. Then the attacker ran away, however nobody called the police. Next, the attacker returned and people heard more screams, and still nobody called the police. And then in the end, he ended up killing Kitty. How is it that such a long drawn out murder can happen, and so many people can hear the attack, and yet no one, well one person out of 38, even so much as calls the police? To answer this question, two researchers Darley and Latane designed an experiment to study what they came to call the Bystander Effect. Let's take a closer look at how this study was designed. The researchers had participants who were talking to each other via headsets, it turns out that the recordings were actually pre-recorded and the participant was interacting with those pre-recorded conversations. In addition, the group sizes varied, some thought that they were alone with one other person, others thought they were in larger groups. Next, some time during the conversation the participant heard someone choking. Now, remember this was pre-recorded but the participant did not know that. Now before we move forward with the results. What would you do in that type of situation? You don't have to type an answer, but think about it for a moment. Let's take a look at the results. First, 85% of those who thought they were alone and heard choking tried to help. Next, 62% who thought they were in a group with others when they heard the person choking tried to help. Now Darley and Latane did many different variations of the study, and one of the main take home findings that they found, was that, in all cases, as group size increased, the number of people trying to help decreased. In this experiment then, when the participants perceived that there were more people that heard the person choking, they were less likely to help. However, when the participant thought that they were the only one who heard the person choking, they were more likely to help. This demonstrates the basic principle that as group size increased, the number of people trying to help decreased. Before we describe the theory as to why this is the case, can you think of any situations that you've experienced where you saw this bystander effect? That is, have you been in a situation where somebody really needed help, and there are a bunch of people around and nobody did help? Have you ever been driving and noticed a person on the side of the road with a flat tire, or the hood of their car open with steam coming out of the engine, and just drove by without stopping to help? Perhaps as you were driving you saw the person and thought, well somebody must have called to help that person. I'm not the only person who saw that person needed assistance. Somebody must've called for help. So my question then, can you think of any situation that you've experienced? This would be a great time to share it on the forum. If you've ever been in that situation, psychologists would suggest that you not helping the person was due to what we term diffusion of responsibility. And this just states that when many people are present, we are less likely to help. Now, I mentioned earlier that, in addition to this research, many researchers have looked at bystander effect. And they have found that there are some variables that actually influence whether we are more likely or less likely to help, besides just the number of people present. Some of the variables and situations they looked at in regards to bystander effect and diffusion of responsibility. Have been emergencies versus non-emergencies. They've looked at the ambiguity and consequences of the situation. They've looked at priming by the bystander. So for example, the bystander may attempt to get eye contact with a participant. They've also looked at cohesiveness and group membership. And finally they looked at personality and background. There are lots of studies on the bystander effect, but now let's go back to Lauren and talk a little bit more about how we assess whether or not we should get involved. One thing to keep in mind before we get involved in a situation that we do a cost-benefit analysis. Let's say for example, I see two grown men fighting in the street. I'll stop and engage in a cost-benefit analysis and decide that if I try to split the two men up by myself, I could possibly get hurt. And that's something I wouldn't want to happen. Sometimes people don't offer assistance because they fear the negative repercussions if they don't help adequately. Or if they make a situation worse. But for now, let's go to Susan to talk more about some pro-social behaviors. As I mentioned earlier, the bystander effect has generated much research in the area of social psychology, and it continues to do so. Another area of study, of pro-social behavior, for psychologists, is the idea of altruism. Altruism is selfless attitudes and behaviors towards others, or showing a selfless concern for others, and giving aid to them. Now why do you think that people act it alturistic ways? Think about it for a moment. Well, there are a number of reasons why we may behave in an altruistic way. So let's look at a few. One evolutionary theory for altruism is kin selection. And this refers to the evolutionary pressure for individuals to favor helping those that are most genetically related to themselves. That is relatives or kin. Another explanation for altruistic behavior is reciprocal altruism. This is the idea that we help others in the hope that they will help us in the future. It is much easier for us to survive as humans if we can cooperate with each other and this type of altruism promotes cooperation. Another factor that may be related to altruism or helping other individuals is empathy. And empathy is the ability to share other people's feelings and understand their situations. In fact, you may have used the term I totally empathize with you. It turns out that research shows that when people we love, such as when our significant others experience pain, the parts of our brain associated with emotional pain are also activated. So this research shows that in fact, we do experience the pain that our loved ones feel. Speaking of our loved ones. How is it that we love certain people? What is love? We're going to talk about that in our next section. Do you remember your first crush? What about a long term boyfriend or girlfriend or even a lifelong friend that you had? What is it about this person that makes you attracted to them or makes you want to be with them and have them be a part of your life. What is it that influences our attraction of other people? Well that's exactly what we're going to talk about in this portion of the lesson. Relationships, attraction, sexual attraction and mate selection. Now throughout this course we've talked about humans as social creatures. We have one feeling that really demonstrates this. And that's attraction. Psychologists have identified three factors that play a role in attraction. Now there's situational, physical and psychological factors. So let's go take a closer look at each of these. Here we want to know the extent to which proximity can influence attraction, that is how close someone is to us. It turns out that when selecting a potential mate, we see that where someone lives can play a significant role in who we select simply due to their proximity. Meaning that if you grow up in the Midwest in the United States, this likely rules out the possibility of falling in love with someone who lives in Paris. That is, unless you travel to Paris on vacation, and meet the love a your life. Therefore, proximity to other individuals provides us the opportunity for attraction. It may not come as a surprise to you, but physical features can play a large role in attraction. For example, men who are attracted to women tend to prefer the hourglass figure. And some people believe that this figure is associated with fertility. On the other hand, women who are attracted to men tend to prefer the tapering V body figure. Some field studies have found that women's weight and men's height are the best predictors to how many responses they'll get to a personal ad. Another study that looked at online dating choices of men and women found that physical attractiveness was the only predictor of dating choice. And as it turns out, appearance, doesn't always always play a role in who we're attracted to. It plays a role in many different contexts. For example, research shows that beautiful people earn about 10% more money over the course of their lives. They also tend to have more friends, more sex, and more dates than non beautiful people. Moreover, research has shown that some people believe that beautiful people also have superior personal qualities. Now it turns out that beautiful people may actually have better opportunities, and more friends for social interaction. And therefore their social skills can be better than less beautiful people. This doesn't just hold true for how we behave as adults in interacting with other people. But research has found that mothers tend to be more affectionate and playful with their children, when they're attractive as compared to when they're unattractive. So this leads us to the question, what is beautiful? Research on attraction shows that people find average and symmetrical faces more attractive than less average, less symmetrical faces. Now, by average, I don't mean common. I mean mathematically average. So, the size, shape, and location of facial features have to be the mathematical average of a population. So, you can't have a face that's too big or too small, or eyes that are too close together or too far apart. Now, why is it that we prefer symmetry? Well, symmetry can be an indicator of genetic fitness. That is, more symmetrical faces can be a sign of less genetic mutations, and thus a sign of good genetic health. The final factor of attraction is the psychological factor. Many of us know that it's not just physical attractiveness or beauty that goes into finding the perfect mate. There's something else that makes a person, well special. For example what are their attitudes and beliefs? What's their personality like? Do you agree with their points of view? Are they ambitious? These are inner qualities that many people find very attractive. In fact, research shows that we tend to marry people with similar socioeconomic status, ethnicities, religious background, personalities, and level of education. So it seems that similarities also play an important role in attraction. Now let's begin the discussion on sexual attraction and the qualities we look for in potential sexual partners. Now according to the sexual strategy theory, men and women approach relationships differently. And perhaps you can reflect upon this in some of your own relationships experiences. In terms of how you may have approached a relationship differently than your partner. We see that in almost all societies, people engage in one night stands, or what we like to call, short term meetings. We also have long term meetings, which include marriage or extended companionship. So our committed long term relationships often result in marriage. In one study conducted in the United States, they found that 86% of women by the age of 40 and 81% of men by the age of 40 will marry. If you recall from our earlier lesson on development, we had a question on the forums about the age your parents got married. And we discuss the change across generations, in regards to the age people marry. Now this is just one study in the United States. But long term relationships occur in most cultures. They may do so at different times or ages, and for different reasons. For example in some cultures marriages are arranged, so the individuals have no say in the matter. But in other cultures people often marry for love, that is they fall in love with one another and then they decide to spend the rest of their lives together. Now let's go back to Dr. Blumer to learn how culture plays a role in our sexual behaviors in general. How does culture play a role in sexual behavior? So definitely the larger culture in which an individual couple, couples are embedded, is going to play a part. It's going to play a part in how they view their own gender. how they view their role in terms of sexual activity. Who initiates. Who orgasms? Who doesn't? What the reasons are for the sex. one of the biggest things culturally, because when we're talking about culture, we're really talking about a lot of different influences. Geographic location, nationality, ethnicity, race, religion, able-bodiness veteran status, economic status, educational level, sexual orientation. You know, all of these things are going to play a huge part. One of the biggest things is religion. We know that, that how people religiously identify, and how high they are in religiosity. In other words, how how much they view the world as through a religious lens, that's going to play a huge part. So if you come from more of a conservative religious background or fundamental background, across any religion, then typically the views around sexuality and the reason for sex tends to be more restrictive. So we're back to that believe around sex being more for traditional and reproductive reasons. if you come from a less religious background or religion that tends to be less conservative or fundamental, then typically you're going to fallen into a belief around sexuality that tends to be more relational in nature. or some combination between relational, recreational and traditional slash. procreative reasons besides biology which really drives people internally a lot of the time around sexual practices. The role of culture just cannot be ignored. It can't be disentangled by who people are sexually. Absolutely. So this leads us to the question, what is love? We touch on this briefly in the lesson on language and thought, when Susan described what are emotional feelings returned. Remember she was trying to tell Sofia that she was just anxious or nervous about flying, when in fact Sophia's stomach was bothering her and she was becoming physically sick. And in that lesson Susan asked what is love and how do we describe it? One psychologist by the name of Sternberg, developed the triangular theory of love. He had an idea that love was composed of three components. They are intimacy, passion, and commitment. And various combinations of these three components explain all forms of human love. So lets take a closer look at these in a little more detail. Intimacy refers to feeling close, connected, and bonded in your loving relationships. Next we have passion. Passion refers to the drive that leads to physical attraction, romance, and, sexual experiences. And this is accompanied by the physiological changes in arousal. And finally, we have commitment. With commitment we're talking about both a decision to love someone, and the decision to commit to love for the long-term. So for different types of love, these three different components are present, but they're present in different amounts. For example, with romantic love, we see high levels of intimacy, and passion, but low levels of commitment. And here we see companionate love. Which are high levels of intimacy and commitment, but low levels of passion. And here we see fatuous love, where there's high levels of commitment and passion but low levels of intimacy. Now if you were to just have passion and no intimacy or commitment, you'd see something like lust or infatuation. And if you just had intimacy but no commitment or passion, It would just be liking someone, and if you just have commitment, but no intimacy, and no passion, this would be empty love. Now if all of these types of love were present in equal proportion, Sternberg would call this consummate love. So, as I said that any given relationship can have a combination of these three components. Some of your life-long friends you're going to feel commitment with, and intimacy. But not passion. Or your siblings and family members would be a mixture of intimacy and commitment. Whereas your romantic partners would be intimacy and passion. And for those who have all three in the same person, this would be a life-long partner. For example, a husband or wife or life partner. In this section on social behavior, we've discussed attraction, liking, and love. We see that we tend to be attracted to people with average and symmetrical faces. And on a side note, we tend to be attracted to be people and gravitate towards people who are as attractive as we are ourselves. We also discussed the fact that when choosing mates, we tend to select individuals who are similar to us, in a variety of characteristics, such as ethnicity, socioeconomic status, even religious affiliation. And finally we talked about what is love, and the different types of love. Now we're going to end this lesson with an interview with Dr Markie Blemer/g, who is going to talk to us about two fast-growing areas of discussion in psychology. That's gender, as well as technology and relationships. So what is gender? Oh my god, I'm so excited to answer this question. Okay. [LAUGH] What is gender. Jiminy Crickets. That is a very, very difficult question to answer. And I would like to just turn that back on people and say what is gender to you. If you can think of a way to construct gender, it exists. There are cultures across the globe where there are three genders. In Thailand for example, there, there are three genders. in, in certain Native American groups or indigenous groups to the Americas, there are four genders. In parts of China there are older communities that have five genders. and when we think about that from a binary gender lands it's almost impossible to wrap our mind around it. until we start to really realize, we think about our own gender and we think, oh gosh, some days I feel very masculine. You know, maybe when I'm at work maybe I have a job where I'm surrounded by a lot of men. Maybe I do construction yet I happen to have a breast and, and vulva, but I don't really feel like a woman in that context because I'm not really doing things that are very stereotypically feminine. I kind of feel masculine. But then, then when I go home and I have my male partner and I have children, I feel very feminine. I, I'm mothering. I feel like a woman. And so when we start to think about gender as something that is fluid throughout the day as something that varies from place to place on the globe. And it's different across time. I mean, the concept of this gender binary pink blue society that we have in the United States, for example, really didn't really emerge until, you know, the 1900's that, that really is a new concept. And really with the advent of this pink blue thing, that was like the 1950's. And so in asking what gender is really we need to ask ourselves what is gender to me and what is gender to you and how is that similar and how is it different. And we really should be mindful not to make assumptions, which is why I really encourage like, the therapists I work with now, to ask people, you know, how do you gender identify. Or I gender identify as, as a girl and as a woman and please you the pronoun she and her. Because we can't make assumptions. For example, some people might feel very androgynous. Where they have a mixed feeling of being masculine and feminine. Maybe they prefer the gender pronoun of they, and them. So we just can't know. and I think that's exciting. I mean, I think the idea that gender can be and is constructed in multitudes of ways that we can't even really grok is kind of amazing. And how does this tie into your work? So one of the things that my colleague and I have been working on, is a whole entire book that actually attends to the role of technology in couple and family relationships. Because even though there's been a ton of research in the field of communication in the field of of technology and cyber technologies and digital stuff. There has been very little research in the field that looks at relationships in the context of technology. And technology in the context of relationships. So what we did was write a book called The Couple and Family Technology Framework Intimate Relationships in a Digital Age. And what we did was we synthesized what little research there is in the field of relationships and technology. And then all of those other disciplines. Put it into one book. And we really try to get people to think about things like the role of technology in your sexual relationships with each other. is being friends, on a social networking site, for example, with an ex, is that okay? Is it not okay? is just chatting with people infidelitous? Is watching pornography a form of infidelity? When is the appropriate age for children to get cell phones. when should they be on social networking sites? Should they be playing games? How will that influence them? How do we make sure that our kids have access to comprehensive sex education. That we can monitor while blocking sites that we don't want them to have access to because its not age appropriate yet. So, all of these things are things that are really emerging. Couples, families, individuals are experiencing them, but there's been very little written about it and not really a comprehensive way for people to look at it. And so our hope is that our book is going to be really a big step in in a beginning of of really this revolution of this field of couple and family technology. Now if you're interested in learning more about any of these topics, which I highly suggest you do, check out Dr Markie Blumer's website or the book she co-authored. Check out the instructor's notes section, where you'll find links to information about Dr Blumer. In the last two lessons of our course, we're going to discuss two topics that many people that are the sum of psychology. That's mental disorders and their treatments. However, as we talked about in last 14 lessons that this isn't all psychology has to offer. And as we've said before, many psychologists have different opinions on different things And mental disorders and their treatments are two of those things. In fact, many government agencies question the way we diagnose mental disorders, but we'll get into that in a little bit. For now, let's go to Susan for an important note on the upcoming lessons. As we've discussed with many of the topics such as consciousness, arousal, and stress. We can use the idea of a continuum to look at what is considered normal, and what is considered not normal. And that's what makes diagnosing mental disorders so problematic and challenging. In that we have to determine what is too far on the continuum to be considered normal. Now here when we say normal, we're talking about this in a statistical sense and not necessarily a value judgement. Now psychologist who study mental disorders do so to understand, treat and prevent human misery. When behavior falls outside of the normal range on that continuum. Many people find this area of psychology very interesting. And although the way society has treated people with mental illness has evolved greatly, there are still cross cultural differences in the way people, view and treat individuals with mental illness. Before you start discussing mental disorders in detail, I want to ask you something. Do you know somebody with a mental disorder? Have you seen someone on TV or even in public, with, let's say, schizophrenia? How did that make you feel? Were you uncomfortable? Were you afraid? Unfortunately, historically, people with mental disorders were shunned and even isolated from their communities. They were also subjected to bizarre treatments. All because people didn't understand where these mental illnesses came from, or what was causing this behavior. Now, throughout this lesson I want you to think about this negative stigma and how, the increase of mental health literacy, we can diminish this stigma. Fortunately, today we've come a long way in understanding the causes of mental illness. In fact, the're entire media campaign is dedicated to teaching people about what mental illness is. And there's no reason for someone today to be stigmatized because of mental illness. In fact, we should look at it just like we do any other human illness such as diabetes. People with diabetes face daily challenges as do people with mental illness. However, by managing their symptoms, both can live a happy and fufilling life. Determining what constitutes a mental illness can be a difficult task. Because there's not a specific test, for example a blood test or an x-ray, that can tell us which disorder a person may have. However, over the past 200 years, many industrialized countries have categorized psychological abnormalities using a medical model. The medical model is that conceptualization of psychological abnormality as diseases. But like physical diseases have biological causes, defined symptoms and possible cures. Therefore the first step to determining the nature of a problem is through diagnosis. Before discussing the process of diagnosing mental disorders, it's imperative to know that psychiatric labels can have negative consequences, including negative stereotypes. Or stigma. In fact, some research has suggested that nearly 70% of people with a diagnosable psychological disorder do not seek treatment. We hope that through this course we can educate you, as well as other students, in an effort to help decrease a negative stigmatization associated with mental illness. One last thing before we get started. I want to strongly caution you against diagnosing yourself or others with a mental disorder. It's very common to see portions of yourself when learning this material. And people become more sensitive to their own eccentricites when discussing mental disorders. So we strongly urge you to seek a licensed health care professional if you are concerned. We've actually provided a document for you to help you pick a therapist if you wish to do so. For now, let's get started In the Unites States historically, the main source for diagnosing mental disorders has been the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual or the DSM. And this is published by the American Psychiatric Association. This manual uses a combination of scientific evidence and clinical observations to determine what constitutes diagnosis of a particular disorder. The DSM defines mental disorder as a syndrome, a set of related conditions. Of clinically significant disturbances of thoughts, feelings, or behaviors. We want to point out that this is an American perspective on psychological disorders, and therefore, it may not encompass the perspectives of other cultures on mental health. More specifically, the DSM 5, which is the latest edition of the manual, argues for the 4 d's of determining whether something is a mental doisorder. Let's take a look at each of these individually, while keeping in mind our continuum that we discussed earlier, meaning the range on the continuum, from what's considered to be acceptable, or normal, or normal variations in these categories. Or what's considered outside of the normal range of these categories. So, the four d's of disorders are disturbance, dysfunctional, distress or disability and finally deviance. First we have disturbance. And here we mean, disturbance of though, emotion or behavior. That is, things are not going well in how a person thinks, feels or behaves. Second, we have dysfunction. And here we mean, dysfunction of biological or development processes. Dysfunctional behavior interferes with everyday functioning, and could lead a person to being at risk, or the person is risking the safety of others. Dysfunction can mean the inability for a person to hold down a job or engage in meaningful social relationships with close friends or loved ones. And third, we have distress or disability. And here we mean, distress or disability in everyday life. Especially relationships, work or other activities. Here, the behavior leads to real discomfort or anguish. Either in the person directly or in others. The distressing element is one reason we may say a person is suffering from a disorder. It can cause pain to a person and/or other people, especially family members. And this is an important point to bring up. In something we discussed throughout the class, that it's not only the person with the disorder that experiences the difficulty, pain, anxiety or sadness. It's also the person's loved ones who can experience difficulty as well. That is, it can be painful and sad to watch a loved one suffer through some of the symptoms of mental illness. Remember in the lesson on memory, when we talked about HN and people with amnesia or dementia. And how we talked about how difficult it could be, if you were the husband or wife, mother, father, brother, sister of the person who was unable to remember you? Obviously, it'd be really painful to deal with. And now finally, for the last D, we have deviant. By this we mean, deviant thought, emotion or behavior. But only if it's also dysfunctional. Deviance alone is not enough. Deviant literally means, different from the norm, or different from what most people do. The [UNKNOWN] does stress that deviant behavior can be classified as a disorder, only if it's also dysfunctional. Einstein, for example, was deviant in many ways, but he wasn't dysfunctional. Kelly believes he sees unicorns flying around his house. Now clearly, there are no unicorns actually flying around his house. So this is an example of which of the D's that we discuseed? Deviance, distress or disability, disturbance, or dysfunctional? Select the best option. This is an example of disturbance because his delusion is a disturbance of his thought. So, does Kelly have a mental disorder? Yes, because he meets the criteria of one of the d's. Yes, because he is seeing unicorns. No, because he is seeing unicorns. No, because he doesn't meet the criteria of disturbance. We don't know. We need more information. Select the best option. The answer is we don't know, we need more information. Don't forget, we need a lot of information before someone can be diagnosed with a mental disorder. However, just having one or even two of these four D's doesn't typically mean it's classified as a disorder. Moreover, if a behavior is culturally accepted, it cannot be a disorder. For example, in some indigenous cultures Shamen ingest hallucinogenic mushrooms in order to experience hallucinations. That's acceptable in that culture and therefore wouldn't be considered a disorder. What percent of the population do you think will suffer from some kind of diagnosable mental disorder in a given year? And what percent do you think will suffer from a mental disorder at some point in their entire lives. Now, of course, I don't expect you to know the exact percentage. Just take a wild guess if you don't know. Well, at least for the US, 26% of the population will suffer from a diagnosable disorder in a given year. And 46% of the population will suffer from a diagnosable disorder at some point in their life. Judging by the percentages we discussed before, mental illness is pretty common, something that every family experiences either directly or indirectly. Because of this, mental health literacy is something that we should strive for as a culture, given that almost half of us will experience some type of disorder in our life. In addition, over half of the people who experience at least one psychological disorder, will also experience a second disorder. Having two or more mental disorders occurring at the same time, is termed comorbidity. The new DSM-5 lists 21 major categories of disorders and over 350 distinct disorders. Now, as we mentioned at the beginning of the study, we want to remind you that not all psychologists agree with the categories in the DSM-5, or with the notion that there are 350 distinct disorders. And also it's important to know that what's considered a disorder in the past, sometimes changes over time. So the DSM isn't set in stone. For example, homosexuality was listed as a mental disorder in the DSM. Which clearly we know no longer is the case. Nevertheless, given the historical use of the DSM, we'll discuss some of these categories in this lesson. Specifically, we'll discuss some of the 21 major categories of disorders, Including, Neurodevelopmental disorders, Depressive disorders, Bipolar disorders, Anxiety disorders, Obsessive-compulsive disorder, Post traumatic stress disorder, Dissociative disorders, Somatic symptom disorders, Personality disorders, and finally schizophrenia. Although most clinical diagnosis is reserved for adults over the age of 18, there are some that are prominent in children. The DSM-5 refers to these as neuro-developmental disorders. They include things like intellectual disability, which is formally known as mental retardation and learning disabilities. In this lesson we are going to discuss two. Attention deficit hyper activity disorder or ADHD and autism spectrum disorder. Let's get started with ADHD. Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder is one of the most common childhood disorders in the United States. And it can continue into adolescence and adulthood. According to the National Institute of Mental Health, symptoms include difficulty staying focused and paying attention, difficulty in controlling behavior and hyperactivity. Let's look at three types of symptoms. First we have inattention. Someone who has symptoms of inattention can be easily distracted. They may miss details or forget things and they frequently switch from one behavior activity to another. They can become bored with a task after only a few minutes, unless they are doing something that they really enjoy. This means they can have trouble completing or turning in homework assignments. They often lose things needed to complete a task, and they seem to not listen when spoken to. Furthermore, they may daydream, become easily confused, and even struggle to follow directions or instructions. A child who has symptoms of hyperactivity may squirm or fidget in their seat. Someone with symptoms of hyperactivity may talk nonstop. They may run around touching and playing with everything in sight. They have trouble sitting still at dinner, at school. And thus they may get in trouble from teachers as well as parents for their hyperactivity. Now let's look at impulsivity. Symptoms of impulsivity means a person may be very impatient. They may blurt out inappropriate comments or show their emotions without restraint. And they may often act out without regard for consequences. They may have difficulty waiting for things that they want, and they may interrupt people's conversations or activities. Now as you can imagine, children experiencing a combination of these symptoms, can experience great difficulty in managing their day to day behaviors that are necessary, and needed for doing well in school, or interacting with others, and completing a daily routine. And not all attention deficit disorders will be exactly the same. You'll see some who are more inattentive rather than hyperactive, and some who are more impulsive rather than inattentive. In order to be diagnosed with ADHD, one must meet a set of diagnostic criteria. That is comprised of a number of symptoms of this disorder. And now the causes of ADHD, or Attention Deficit Hyper-activity Disorder, include a combination of genes, and environmental factors. Now for a long time, people suspected that the consumption of sugar caused ADHD. However, there's no research that's provided support for that idea. The next childhood disorder we'll discuss is Autism spectrum disorder. Formally known simply as Autism. Autism Spectrum Disorder or ASD is characterized by severe language and social impairment in combination with repetitive habits and inward focused behaviors. Autism behaviors vary on the continuum from severe disability to high-functioning. For example, children with a high-functioning type of autism may have social impairment and skills impairment. But they may also have more advanced speech capability as well as an above-average intelligence. Hanz Asberger was the first to describe his high functioning type of autism and it was since termed Asberger's Syndrome. However, under the current DSM, Asberger Syndrome is no longer under it's own diagnostic criteria. Children with ASD do not follow the patterns that are typical when developing their social and communication skills. If you recall from our lesson on development, here we see that these children do not reach the same milestone markers in the areas of social skills and communication as you typically develop in children. Some of the symptoms or signs of AS include, making little eye contact, failing to respond to other people, tending to look and listen less to people and to their environment, and responding unusually when other people show signs of anger, distress or affection. Children with ASD seem not to respond appropriately, as defined by prevailing social norms to emotional queues and human social interactions. In addition, some children with ASD also engage repeatitive actions that are termed stereotypy or stereotyped behaviors. Stereotyped behavior can be defined as persistent mechanical repetition of speech or movement, or ritualistic movements like hand flapping or rocking. The number of individuals diagnosed with ASD has increased throughout the years. And currently rates are approximately 60 per 1,000 births. Why do you think there has been an increase in the number of children being diagnosed with ASD. Think about it for a moment and type your response here. Although some people have suggested that ASD is over diagnosed, recent researchers believe that the rise is mostly due to an increased awareness of the disorder and its signs and symptoms. Similar to ADHD, ASD is thought to be caused by a combination of genetics and environment. Some genes may make a child more susceptible to the disorder. Others may determine the severity of the symptoms. Some of the genetic problem seems to be inherited. Whereas others happen spontaneously. Environmental factors also play a role. And researchers are examining whether viral infections, complications during pregnancy, or even air pollutants can play a role in triggering autism. What is not a cause of ASD? While there is no evidence or reliable research that has shown a link between vaccines and ASD. That is, there is no scientific data to support such claims. Now the reason I'm telling you there's no link between vaccines and ASD is because some people actually think there is a link. And one of the reasons was because of fraudulent data that was presented by Doctor Andrew Wakefield. In his previous research, he was found to be fraudulent because he misrepresented or altered the medical records of the 12 patients he used for his now infamous study. Doctor Wakefield's misconduct was so inexcusable that Britain stripped him of his medical license. Neglecting the recommended vaccines exposes children to the danger of catching and spreading serious diseases like measles, mumps or whooping cough. So vaccination is key to eliminating these serious diseases. And we know now that vaccines do not cause ASD. So vaccinate. Now, let's go to Lauren to talk about the anxiety disorders. Anxiety is a part of many of our everyday lives. Because it's a very typical response to stress. So what sort of things make you anxious? I know for example, I get really anxious about snakes or not doing well at my job among other things. So tell me what makes you anxious. List your response here. Now because I get anxious about things like failing at work or snakes doesn't necessarily mean I have generalized anxiety disorder. Because anxiety is a very normal thing. Let's discuss it a little further. Anxiety can actually be beneficial in some situations. For example, let's say you're anxious about studying for your final, well that anxiety can jump start you to actually start studying for the final in an effort to relieve your anxiety. However, for some people, anxiety can become excessive, which can lead to a anxiety disorder. Now, there are a number of these types of disorders, from generalized anxiety disorder to post traumatic stress syndrome, even social anxiety disorder. In fact, obsessive compulsive disorder used to be listed in the DSM as an anxiety disorder. However, in the newest version of the DSM, it now has its own chapter. Research looking at the cause of anxiety disorders, looks at both genetic and environmental factors. As with many other topics, psychologists use twin studies to determine what's a genetic cause, and what's an environmental cause. And using a variety of techniques, researchers have found the amygdala, and hippocampus, play an important role in most anxiety disorders. The first anxiety disorder that we're going to to discuss, is generalized anxiety disorder. This is a common disorder that's characterized by a pervasive and excessive, hard to control, state of anxiety, or worry, that lasts at least 6 months. People with generalized anxiety disorder, may also have trouble with sleep. Body restlessness or agitation. Difficulty concentrating or muscle tension. Adults must exhibit at least three of these symptoms. To receive a diagnosis of generalized anxiety disorder. Unlike other anxiety disorders, people with generalized anxiety disorder often have been anxious their whole lives, and they can't recall the particular time when they began to feel this way. These people tend to worry about anything and everything, and their level of worry is not proportional to the actual threat they're worried about. A pop culture example of an individual with generalized anxiety disorder is, Woody Allen, the writer, director and comedian. He has said that using film making and being creative has been a distraction from his pervasive anxiety. Now finally, it's important to remember that feeling anxious towards specific events is totally normal. But, for people with generalized anxiety disorder, their anxiety can be debilitating. And for some, it may even prevent them from being able to work. What do you think is a normal anxiety to have? For example, public speaking. There's a lot of people that are anxious when they have to public speak. These are different answers that people have come up with for normal anxieties. Someone with generalized anxiety disorder would be anxious about all of these, all of the time, plus some. And what they were anxious about wouldn't match the real threat that the event poses. Anxiety disorders are closely tied to panic disorders. A panic disorder is defined by frequent panic attacks and pervasive and persistent fear worry and embarrassment about having panic attacks in the future. So the center of panics disorders is the panic attack. Panic attacks involves sudden changes in body and mind. Panic attacks are characterized by an overwhelming sense of impending doom, heart palpitations, trembling, sweating, shortness of breath, dizziness, intense dread, nausea and even a fear of death. These attacks are associated with perceptions of threat. It can occur for a number of reasons. For example, fear of danger, inability to escape, fear of embarrassment or fear of a specific category of objects. Panic attacks usually last for about ten minutes. But sometimes can come and go over a period of an hour or more. Due to their physiological effects, people undergoing a panic attack may believe they're having a heart attack or going crazy. As you can imagine, this can be extremely frightening. If a person has a panic disorder, there is a preoccupation of being worried about having a panic attack. And this puts a person in an anxious mood, which increases the likelihood of more worrisome thoughts which can trigger another panic attack. To receive a diagnosis of panic disorder, a panic attack must be followed by at least a month of persistent worry over future attacks, along with the development of potentially maladaptive behaviors to avoid attacks. Such as avoidance of putting oneself in an unfamiliar situation. People with this disorder may tend to disengage themselves from activities that they once enjoyed for fear of experiencing panic attacks. For example, some people go to the extreme of avoiding being out in public. And that brings us to our next disorder. Agoraphobia. Agoraphobia is a specific phobia involving a fear of venturing into public places. Now, it's not that people are actually afraid of the public places. But rather, they're afraid of having a panic attack while they're out. In severe cases, people are unable to leave their homes. Sometimes for years on end. About 22% of Americans have reported having at least one panic attack. But this does not result in diagnosis of a panic disorder. In addition to having the panic attack, a person also has to experience the dread and anxiety about having another Panic attack. For example, I once had a panic attack. It was terrifying, and all of those symptoms felt very real. It was when I was on an airplane one time. But I haven't ever had a panic attack since that one flight, so just because I had the one panic attack when I was flying, doesn't mean I have a panic disorder. And on top of that it doesn't mean I'm even scared of flying anymore. With all the diagnostic criteria, it turns out that approximately 3.5% of people will have a diagnosable panic disorder sometime in their life. And 43% of those people who do have a panic disorder will develop agoraphobia. Now, let's go to Greg with a little more about phobias. So Lauren just mentioned phobia when she talked about agoraphobia. So, the question then is well, what is a phobia? Well a phobia is a persistent and unreasonable fear of a particular activity, object, or a situation. So, for instance let's take social phobia. Social phobia then is an unreasonable and persistent fear of social situations. Fear of being scrutinized and humiliated by other people. Now, this fear can be limited to specific social situations, like public speaking, or it can be generalized to most any social situation. The problem with social anxiety and social phobia though, is that it can be self-perpetuating. Meaning that by being anxious in social situations you might draw more attention to yourself from other people and that in turn just builds on the anxiety. Phobias. Do you have a specific phobia. There are numerous other phobias that people experience. For example, people have phobias of spiders, heights, bees, snakes, flying and being in closed spaces to name a few. So do you remember Lauren's response to Tickles. Now Lauren doesn't have a full blown snake phobia, but maybe a mild one. So what about you? Now, remember this has to be a debilitating fear of something to be a phobia. So if you or anyone you know has a phobia that you want to talk about, this might be a good thing to discuss on the forum with your peers. So people who have specific phobias are not necessarily more generally anxious than other people. In fact, they're only really afraid of their feared and phobic object. But they really do go to great lengths to avoid these phobic situations or objects. So for instance, someone might be afraid of elevators. And what that means is that they will go to great lengths to avoid elevators. So they make sure that their doctor's office or their dentist office or a hotel room is always on a lower level so they can get to by stairs. Now this treatment for these situations and these phobias is very fascinating. But we're going to save that for the next lesson. Now what causes specific phobias? Like all mental disorders, as it turns out, it's a combination of genetic and environment factors. So for instance, a person who has a specific phobia very often has the genetic disposition. But they also may have low levels of this neurotransmitter called GABA. They may have personality disorders like narcissism. And finally, they often are exposed to really chronic stressful situations in their lives. As we mentioned earlier, OCD used to appear in the DSM with other anxiety disorders, however, in the DSM-5, OCD is in its own category. Now, remember at the beginning of the lesson we cautioned people from diagnosing themselves and this is one disorder where I have seen people mislabel and call themselves OCD, when in fact they do not have OCD. For example, I've heard students say oh, for all my classes I have to color-coordinate the folders and assignments. I'm so OCD. Being neat, tidy, and organized is not the same as having OCD. So what is OCD? Let's take a closer look. Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder is a disorder that manifests in both thought and behavior. An obsession is an unwanted thought, phrase, word or image that persistently and repeatedly comes into a person's mind, and causes distress. A compulsion is a repetitive behavior performed in response to uncontrollable urges or to a ritualistic set of rules. Interestingly people with OCD are aware that their thoughts are irrational and that their compulsive behaviors are also irrational and unnecessary. But they simply cannot stop themselves. What are two types of behaviors that you think are common types, that occur in people with OCD? Think about it for a moment, and type your response here. Cleaning, checking and counting OCD are the most common types of OCD and it interferes with normal functioning of daily life. For example, a person with OCD who fears germs is going to spend an excessive amount of time worrying about germs. They're going to be thinking about all the germs that surround them. Worrying about touching something and acquiring new germs. Now these anxious thoughts that they have are combated by the compulsive behaviors that they engage in. For example, a person who's afraid of germs may wash their hands two to 300 times a day in scolding hot water. Or perhaps they wash them five to six times a day, but for 30 to 40 minutes at a time. The person is aware of these compulsions but they're unable to stop them. A person with checking OCD, may have to check the stove repeatedly before leaving the house to make sure it's off even though they haven't cooked at home in months. And finally a person with counting OCD maybe has to touch a doorknob 14 times for fear that his dog will die if he doesn't. Even though he knows there's really no connection between how many times he touches a door knob and the fate of his dog. So the main thing to remember is that the person is aware of these compulsions, but they're still unable to stop them. There appears to be a moderate genetic heritability for OCD, as seen from twin studies, but researchers are still examining the biological basis of OCD. One hypothesis has suggested heightened neural activity in the caudate nucleus. And the anterior cingulate cortex, or ACC, of the brain. Some research findings suggest that those with OCD have an overactive loop between the thought that something is wrong, which the obsession, and wanting to do something about it to make it stop, which is the compulsion. The obsession involves the ACC, whereas the compulsion involves the caudate nucleus. This cycle goes on and on and gets stuck leading to obsessive thoughts and compulsive behaviors. Now let's go back to Lauren and talk about Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. You may remember from the consciousness lesson, when we discussed the potential effectiveness of MDMA in treating post-traumatic stress disorder, so now let's recap PTSD. PTSD often develops after someone is exposed to a terrifying event that involves physical harm or the threat of physical harm. And someone with PTSD often feels frightened or stressed. Even when they're no longer in harms way. Exposure to natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, tsunami's, or even earthquakes can cause PTSD. Exposure to war whether or not you're a soldier, prisoner of war, or even a bystander of war, can result in PTSD. And physical or sexual assault or even losing a loved one suddenly can result in PTSD. People with post traumatic stress disorder or PTSD experience many intrusive symptoms that last at least one month. These include things such as recurring intrusive thoughts, feelings or memories of the traumatic event. This can happen while awake or while dreaming. A person may experience flashbacks, which are vivid reactions that a person feels when they're experiencing the traumatic event over and over again. People with PTSD are easily startled, with hair trigger tempers. They may also be reckless or self-destructive. PTSD can occur in both children and adults. And as we discussed in lesson six, many veterans experience PTSD. In fact, some research shows that approximately 24% of war veterans will experience PTSD. These veterans are also at greater risk of developing major depression, drug abuse and suicide after returning home. The death and despair of war induced PTSD is seen in a suicide note from an Iraq war veteran. In 2007, Daniel Somers was diagnosed with a traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress disorder, Gulf War Syndrome, fibromyalgia, and a host of other medical problems. He sought treatment through therapy, medication, music and film production. But eventually took his own life June 10th, 2013. He left behind a powerful suicide note. Here's part of what it said. All day, every day a screaming agony in every nerve ending in my body. It is nothing short of torture. My mind is a wasteland filled with visions of incredible horror, unceasing depression and crippling anxiety. Thankfully there are treatments available for PTSD which we're going to talk about in our next lesson. So, Lauren just mentioned that depression is a very common symptom of war veterans. So, let's move on now, and talk about major depressive disorder. But before we do so, remember that there's a continuum in all disorders. So from the everyday fluctuations to the disordered. Same is true for depression. In fact, think also about what's happened in your own life when something bad has happened. maybe you failed an exam or a boyfriend or girlfriend broke up with you. For me, it was in 2009 for instance, when my mother passed away, I was really upset for quite a while. But these things are not necessarily depression. They're normal everyday fluctuations. So what are the criteria for major depression? And for that we're going to move over to Lauren and she's going to tell us. According to American Psychiatric Association, and the new DSM-5 criteria, to be diagnosed with major depressive disorder one must have a depressed mood, or loss of interest, or pleasure in daily activities for at least. Two consecutive weeks. Now remember that this mood must represent a change from the person's baseline, that is, it has to be different from the way the person usually acts. They must meet at least five of nine specific symptoms associated with major depression. Almost everyday for at least two weeks. A depressed, or sad, or listless mood, that stays low all day for several days. A reduced interest or pleasure in doing anything. A significant change in body weight, that could be either an increase or decrease in body weight. Sleep disturbances, sluggishness or restlessness, daily fatigue or loss of energy, daily feelings of worthlessness, self-reproach or excessive guilt. Lack of ability to concentrate or think clearly, recurrent thoughts of death or suicidal ideation. Now most importantly, these symptoms must significantly effect daily functioning, in terms of both social and work related contexts, and also be a source of distress. Notice that there's a wide variety of symptoms and a person must experience at least five of these symptoms to be diagnosed with major depression. However, it's up to your doctor to diagnose you with major depression. So if you experience any of these symptoms, and are concerned about it, you should consult your doctor or counselor. Check out the PDF we put in the instructor's notes box. If you're interested in finding a therapist, this document can help you. Now you can see how these symptoms differ from our occasional sad or blue moods. This is a lot different than being rejected by someone, or doing poorly on an exam, or realizing you gained a few pounds last year, and the sad moods that can accompany those events. This can be different than being rejected by someone or doing poorly on an exam, or realizing you gained 15 pounds last year. These can be disappointing and produce negative moods, but as far as debilitating symptoms of major depressive disorder, they just don't cut it. In addition to a person experiencing the painful, and sometimes dibilitating symptoms of major depression, the person's loved ones can experience difficulties as well. Imagine one of your close relatives or loved ones experiencing major depression. You would try in earnest to help them and help them feel better. But what if they shun you or resist treatment? It can be very difficult and sad to deal with, as well as frustrating. Now, approximately 7% of the US population has major depressive disorder. And women are twice as likely as men to experience depression. So for now, let's go on to Susan who's going to talk about more disorders related to major depression. Of course, there are situations or life events that can bring on a depressive episode. But for some people, depression just seems to come on without an external event. So, here we can see the interplay between our Neurochemistry and our life circumstances. For example, people who are deficient in the neurotransmitters seratonin and neuropeptide Y, are more likely to experience depression following an extremely stressful event. Therefore, we can have two people face the same stressful event and only the person who's deficient in serotonin and neuropeptide y will actually result in depression. So, here we see the environment or nurture which is the stressful event and the neurochemistry or nature, the lack of serotonin and neuropeptide Y and the resulting depression. In addition to major depressive disorder, there are other depressive disorders that have milder symptoms, but the key is that they last longer. One of these milder forms include persistent depressive disorder, or PDD. Most of the symptoms of PDD are the same as in major depressive disorder, but they are less intense in PDD. Also the depressive mood lasts for most of the day and most of the time for at least two years. Remember, in major depressive disorder you only need to have the symptoms for two weeks. In addition, people with PDD may also experience one or more episodes of major depressive disorder during their lifetime. Another type of depression is Seasonal Affective Disorder, or SAD for short. For most individuals, episodes begin in the fall or winter, and then end when spring arrives. This seems to be due to the reduced levels of life that we experience during winter or colder seasons. For example, I spent most of my life living in Michigan. And when winter rolls around, not only does it get very cold, but it gets dark rather quickly as well. And that is not only due to the shorter days that we experience during winter, but also to the cloudy weather. We could go for days and days without seeing the sun. Now, I don't think I actually had SAD, but I certainly did experience the winter blues. And this is a nice example of how we may have some of the symptoms that are similar to a disorder, but it doesn't necessarily mean we have the actual disorder itself. Finally, the last type of depression that we will discussed is termed postpartum depression. Postpartum means after birth and this is does not equal the baby blues. It's more serious. Postpartum depression has to occur within 4 months after giving birth, however, women have reported feeling sad and anxious during pregnancy as well, and it could last for up to a year. It has many of the standard symptoms of major depressive disorder including sadness. Hopelessness, as well as low self esteem. And even a sense of being overwhelmed among others. And it's estimated that approximately 10-15% of women will experience postpartum depression after giving birth. Another psychological disorder that involves depression is bipolar disorder. Symptoms of bipolar disorder are very severe. These are very different than the normal ups and downs of everyday life. People with bipolar disorder experience severe fluctuation from extreme lows, which is the major depression end of things, to extreme highs, which are the manic stages. As we said, one major component of bipolar disorder is depression. A person needs to be clinically depressed for the most part, but they also need to experience mania. Now to help you remember the symptoms of the mania stage, there is a mnemonic device that you can use. And that's DIGFAST. First we have distractability, then indiscretion, grandiosity, flight of ideas, activity increased, sleep, which during the mania stage, you have a decreased need for And talkativeness. There are different types of bipolar disorder, but we're only going to discuss three here. Let's start with bipolar I and bipolar II. Bipolar I is more severe. That's because the person meets the clinical criteria for major depression and for mania for at least seven consecutive days. On the other hand, with bipolar II the individual meets the criteria for major depression and the criteria for hypomania. Hypomania episodes are similar to the symptoms of mania. So think about that DIGFAST mnemonic device that we just spoke about. However, these episodes are much shorter in duration, they last for at least four consecutive days. So we see the difference between hypomania and mania as the distinction between someone having a more severe form of bipolar or less severe form. Nevertheless, whenever it's bipolar I or II, it's clear to see how it can be a difficult disorder to live with. In fact, it can be exhausting. However, there are treatments available which we'll discuss in our next lesson. Of the third disorder we'll discuss is called cyclothymia. This is the milder, but longer-lasting form of bipolar disorder. This has both manic and depressive episodes, but it's less severe than bipolar II disorder, because in the manic and the depressive symptoms never reach the criteria of major depression or even hypomania. People often throw around the term bipolar without really understanding what it means, or what it's like to live with bipolar disorder. For example, people may call someone bipolar, just because they change moods during a stressful day. Check out these options, and tell me why you think it's inappropriate to call this person bipolar. Choose as many as you think apply. All of these apply except the only one that doesn't is people with bipolar disorder don't experience mood swings. Most individuals who have bipolar disorder experience at least one episode of mania in their entire life with more frequent episodes of depression. However, there is a term for more frequent bipolar episodes and that's rapid cycling. In order to receive a diagnosis of rapid cycling bipolar, one must experience at least four episodes of either depression Mania or hypomania within one year, but now lets go to Greg to talk about the causes of Bi-polar disorder So there is, in fact, inheritable component to the development of bipolar, and we see this in the fact that it tends to run in families. So, for instance, if a sibling or a parent has the disorder, it does increase the odds of anyone else in the family getting the disorder. But of course, again, this is by no means inevitable. We also have to have an environmental aspect to the disorder. Fact in this case, exposure to alcohol while a fetus increases the odds of the development of bi-polar. It also, in fact, increases the odds of depression, schizophrenia, and alcoholism. So once again we see this complex interplay between the forces of Nature, and the forces of n-, nurture. In the development of a disorder, and, in this case, bipolar. Now, we're going to switch gears and move to a different catagory of mental disorders. And those are disssociative disorders. These disorders produce extreme disruptions or gaps in memory, identity, or consciousness. In the DSM 5 puts them in their own category. This is a condition in which cognitive processes are disjointed and fragmented. This disorder often stems from exposure to trauma or extreme stress. And even physical or sexual assault that occurs. And it's most likely to occur during childhood. Individuals with dissociative identity disorder will develop at least two separate, independent identities. Now this used to be called multiple personality disorder. These individuals experience two or more distinct personality states amnesia and self destructive behaviors. Here, a person may find themselves at a hotel and not remember how they got there. They may injure themselves or not be able to remember a particular experience in their life. This is reportedly due to the fact that the other personality is the one engaging in these behaviors. This disorder is another example of a position that psychologists disagree on. Some psychologists don't agree that this is an actual diagnosis. Some even suggest that the separate personalities are ultimately produced by the therapist. So we see here that some psychologist state that this is a real disorder, and some state that it's not. Now lets go back to Susan, to talk about disorders that affect the body, and the mind. So far, we have discussed disorders that affect both thought and behavior. However, there're some disorders that actually take on bodily or physical form and actually mimic diseases. This is called Somatic Symptom Disorder. Somatic Symptom Disorder used to be called hypochondriasys and is occurs when a person complains of multiple physical disorders that cause distress and distruption of a person's life. And persists for at least 6 months. According to the APA, there are two main criteria for diagnosis. First, one or more distressing somatic systems that disrupt daily living. And second, excessive thoughts, feelings or behaviors related to bodily symptoms. Approximately 5 to 7% of US adults experience Somatic Symptom Disorder. A very similar disorder is known as Illness Anxiety Disorder. And it also involves a preoccupation and anxiety over having illnesses. But without any of the actual symptoms. We have two major areas of mental illness to cover, and those are personality disorders and schizophrenia. So, let's start with personality disorders. Personality disorders are another area where psychologists disagree, and their classification in the DSM has been controversial. For example, some have suggested that we look at these personality problems as extreme values on a trait dimension such as the big five that we learned about in our lesson on personality, and not call them a disorder. Approximately 15% of the general population of people over the age of 18 have a personality disorder. But if you look at the age range from 18 to 25, approximately 20% have a personality disorder. Now let's go back to Lauren and learn a little bit more about this. Personality disorders are maladaptive and inflexible patterns of cognition, emotion and behavior. And they generally develop in late childhood or adolescence and continue into adulthood. Now there are three distinct clusters of personality disorders. There's odd and eccentric personality disorders. There's dramatic and emotional personality disorders. And anxious fearful personality disorders. Now we're going to examine the first two in more detail. Let's first start by looking at the odd and eccentric personality disorders. First we have schizoid personality disorder. We see that people with this do not want to be close in any of their relationships. They're reclusive, emotionally aloof, and humorless. And they also want to live solitary lives, therefore we see them engage in solitary activities. They have no interest in sex, they don't have close friends. And they don't seem to react to praise or criticism from others. Another odd-eccentric diagnosis is schizotypal personality disorder. Here, we see these individuals being isolated and asocial, but we also see they have odd thoughts, perceptual distortions and beliefs. And we may see that these people dressed, act, or appear in peculiar or eccentric ways. And finally let's look at paranoid personality disorder. People with paranoid personality disorder are extremely suspicious and mistrustful of other people in ways that are unwarranted and not adaptive. They may often test the loyalty of their friends and lovers. Because they believe others are trying to harm them. People with paranoid personality disorder may be regularly suspicious of their spouses' faithfulness even if there's no evidence that the spouse has been unfaithful. But remember, these are extremes of personality. So questioning the faithfulness of a significant other doesn't necessarily mean you have a personality disorder. Remember, you would have to be extremely paranoid to the point of it interfering with your day life, to consider this a personality disorder. Next, Greg, Susan and I are going to talk about dramatic emotional personality disorders. These include histrionic, borderline, anti-social, and narcissistic personality disorders. So to start, people with histrionic personality disorder act in very dramatic, seductive, flamboyant and exaggerated ways. They can also be very emotional, intense, self-centered and shallow. So as you can imagine it can be very difficult to have a relationship with somebody with histrionic personality disorder because of how self-centered and shallow they really are. Borderline personality disorder is a serious mental illness, and it's categorized by unstable moods, thoughts and behaviors. People with this disorder have difficulty regulating their emotions and thoughts. They engage in impulsive and reckless behavior, and they have difficulty maintaining relationships with other individuals. In addition, people with this disorder have out of control emotions, they're afraid of being abandoned, and they vacillate between idolizing and despising those who are close to them. People with this disorder are more likely to experience self-injury, such as cutting themselves, burning themselves, or even attempting suicide. Moreover, they're more likely to experience substance abuse, eating disorders, or anxiety disorders. Interestingly, cultural factors or social factors may increase the risk of this disorder. For example, living in a community or culture that has unstable family relationships could increase the risk of borderline personality disorder. So people diagnosed with narcissistic personality disorder, are characterized by an overly inflated sense of self, a very positive view of themselves. All their attention is self focused. Like the world kind of revolves around them. and because of this they really do disregard the needs of other people, and make really strong demands on other people. Now, they appear to be very confident but this confidence is very fragile and vulnerable. They get really, really upset when other people criticize them. And, in fact, also the relationships, having a relationship with someone with this disorder is very, very difficult and trying because it's all about them. The last personality disorder that we're going to discuss, some of you may of heard of. It's called, antisocial personality disorder, or ASPD. Now this is formally know as psychopathic or sociopathic behavior. Now antisocial personality disorder, is a serious and potentially dangerous disorder. It is marked by extremely impulsive deceptive, violent, ruthless and callous behavior. The key here is antisocial personality disorder focuses on outward behaviors. Where as the term, psychopath typically focuses on inward characteristics. People with antisocial personality disorder are more likely to engage in criminal, deceptive and violent behaviors. For example, an individual with this disorder may break the law repeatedly. Be able to act charming and witty, steal and fight often. They won't show guilt or remorse, and they can become very angry and arrogant. Now, they're really good at manipulating other people, and have a complete disregard for the safety of others. Many more men than women have this disorder. And it's common among people in prison. As with other disorders, genetic and environmental factors are known to contribute. For example, children who suffered from child abuse people with an antisocial parent, or people with alcoholic parents, are at an increased risk for developing this disorder. In addition a lot of research has revealed, that those are the antisocial personality disorder, especially the violent criminals, have amygdala that are unusually distorted in size, activity, and function. Match this example with the type of personality disorder. Mohammad likes to be alone and doesn't enjoy being with others or activities with others. He goes to work and then goes right home without really interacting with any of his colleagues. He doesn't really care what other people think of him, they could congratulate him or reprimand him, but neither would really affect him. Check which one you think applies. Mohammad most likely has schizoid personality disorder. Let's try it again. Match the example with the personality disorder. Steven believes that a government agency has bugged his phone because they're after his doll collection. He also thinks his colleagues are after it too. However, his co-workers don't even know he has a doll collection. It has gotten to the point where he doesn't leave his house or use his phone because he thinks people want to steal his dolls. Steve has what type of personality disorder? Steven most likely has paranoid personality disorder. Taylor flirts with everyone and loves the attention that is received from dressing provocatively. Taylor's behavior is often over the top and exaggerated in order to get attention from anyone around. Taylor is self-centered and overly-emotional and will act out even if something small happens. Which personality disorder do you think Taylor has? Taylor probably has histrionic personality disorder. Caesar is a very intense manager. He forces his employees to meet the demands that are nearly impossible. For example, he forced Jonathan to work on the day after he had a major surgery on his leg. Anyone who knows Caesar knows he's incredibly confident. Too confident, in fact. Even though he is so confident if he receives the smallest criticism he is extremely sensitive to it. What kind of personality disorder does Ceaser have? He most likely has narcissistic personality disorder. Eduardo is constantly getting into fights and is very violent. He's been to prison twice for violent crimes. However, he can still manipulate people into investing in his business, only to steal their money without a care about how badly he hurts people. What type of personality disorder does Eduardo have? Eduardo probably has antisocial personality disorder. The last mental disorder that we will discuss, is one that has affected people throughout history and is a chronic, severe, and disabling brain disorder. And that's schizophrenia. People with schizophrenia may hear voices that no one else hears. They think people are plotting against them to harm them. Or, they believe people are reading their minds or controlling their thoughts. In order to be diagnosed with schizophrenia, symptoms must persist for at least one month. In addition, at least one of the symptoms must be either dilusions, hallucinations, or disorganized speech. The other symptoms must be grossly disorganized behavior or catatonic behavior, and negative symptoms. By negative symptoms we mean for example a person not speaking or being unable to experience emotion. Let's go back to Susan to look at some of these in more detail. Thanks Lauren. First let's look at delusions. Delusions are often bizarre and grandiose and they are part of a patently false belief system that is maintained in spite of its irrationality, for example a person may believe he is Jesus Christ and moreover these appear to be very real to that person, so that person would actually believe that he was in fact Jesus Christ. We also have hallucinations and these are convincing sensory experieneces that occur in the absence of an external stimulus. Auditory hallucinations are the most common and involve hearing voices inside their head often telling them negative things about themselves or even sometimes telling the person to injure another individual. However, some people with schizophrenia have reported that there are sometimes more positive voices in their heads, in terms of intentions. We can also have a visual hallucinations. This involves seeing things that aren't really there. There can be tactile hallucinations. And this involves feeling something that isn't there. And finally, we can even have olfactory hallucinations, which is smelling something that isn't there, either. Delusions and hallucinations are considered positive symptoms because they are not present in people in general. Next, we have disorganized speech, which is sometimes called word salad, because of the way the words are arranged. Meaning that the speech of a person with schizophrenia often involves grammatical rules, but the content makes little sense. Therefore, it's difficult or hard to understand what the person is saying. Their sentences make little sense. Also, topics of conversations can change with little or no connection between the sentences. And finally, speech may be completely incomprehensible. Let's give an example of what we mean by disorganized speech, or as we said, some people refer to as word salad. In the following example, a woman who believes she was the only female professor at the University of Smithsonian, in England, now mind you, there's no such place, uses words to produce a word salad. So let's try to go through this. Take a moment and see if you can read it out loud clearly. So let's take a look at this. I am here from a foreign university, and you have to have a plausity of all acts of amendment to go through for the children's code. And it is no mental disturbance or putenance, it is amorition. It is like their privatilinia, and the children have to have this accentuative law, so that they don't go into the morite law of the church. Very difficult to say. Bizarre behavior is the last of the positive symptoms associated with schizophrenia. By positive, we do not mean pleasant, but instead we mean the presence of. So we've seen the presence of delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, and bizarre behavior. In addition, we also have the negative symptoms. And these can include non-responsiveness, emotional flatness, immobility or catatonia, which is striking a strange pose. We also see reduction in speaking. The inability to complete tasks. Sometimes a lack of motivation. And even diminished cognitive function. We also see that sometimes people no longer tend or take care of their personal hygiene and they often have little to no interest in interacting with others. Now that we described each of the criteria that are used to diagnose individuals with schizophrenia, what do you think it means for someone living with this disorder? Can you think of an examples of how it can impair a person's life? It turns out there are many ways this disorder can effect a person's life. So let's discuss this in more detail. Take a moment and think about, and type your response here. Thanks for taking a moment and responding. Now there are several ways that this disorder can potentially impair a person's life, so let's take a look at this in more detail. First we see that people with schizophrenia experience a decline in their overall level of functioning. This means that it can be difficult for a person to work at a job that requires a level of skill and concentration that they may have had prior to the onset of the disorder. In devastating cases, the person loses the ability to be a working individual. Moreover, demands such as raising the children, taking care of the house, or meeting societal demands becomes overwhelming, such that the person is not able to function appropriately. However, it is important to note that the symptoms of schizophrenia differ person by person. And that includes the combination of symptoms they experience, as well as the severity of the symptoms and their duration. That said, sometimes schizophrenia is a chronic condition and the person is constantly experiencing hallucinations and delusions. However, other times people experience periods where they are somewhat symptom free, but occasionally have periods of a more acute form of psychosis. Therefore, each individual is different and will experience the symptoms of the disorder in different ways. Because of the severity of the symptoms associated with schizophrenia, there's been a great deal of research to look at the causes for this disorder. And we can see clearly from the research that schizophrenia is both a fascinating yet tragic disorder that is a result of the dynamic interplay between both nature and nurture. Let's take a look at how these two forces work together to produce schizophrenia. The major model looking at the interplay of nature and nurture in the development of schizophrenia is called the diathesis-stress model. Let's go to Greg to learn a little bit more about this. So we see that the more closely a person is related to someone who suffers from schizophrenia. The more likely that person is also to suffer from the disorder. So we know from this that there is a genetic component to schizophrenia, but by itself that's not enough. There also has to be some kind of stressful environmental experience that the person suffers from. Those two things together are really what's required and we refer to this as the diathesis stress model. So, diathesis means the biological predisposition and the stress means some kind of environmental event. It's those two things together that are really required. And this, by the way, applies to all kinds of psychological disorders. Anxiety, personality disorders, obsessive compulsive disorders. So, let's take a closer look at some of the seenvironmental risk factors for schizophrenia. So one of the risk factors involved in the development of schizophrenia is maternal infection. And so what we mean by this is that if a pregnant woman is exposed to diseases or infections, that the baby, later on in life, actually has an increased risk for the development of schizophrenia. So some of these diseases and infections include things like herpes, influenza, rubella and toxoplasmosis. And toxoplasmosis by the way is found in feline feces which is one reason why doctors always recommend that pregnant women stay away from cat litter. Other environmental risk factors include chronic stress and taking certain drugs, now again, by themselves, these things do not cause or even really increase schizophrenia. It's that coupled with a genetic predisposition that's really required. And again this is what we mean by the diathesis stress model. Does a genetic predisposition for schizophrenia mean you are, without a doubt, going to experience schizophrenia? No, it doesn't. We want to caution, however, that although genetic factors play an important role in the development of schizophrenia, just having a genetic predisposition does not mean that somebody is going to develop the disorder. However, research studies have shown that children who are exposed to abuse and neglect early in life, are more likely to develop schizophrenia later in life. And that brings us to a discussion that we had in lesson three on epigenetics, that is, a person can have a genetic predisposition and go throughout their lives without developing the disorder. Or they can have that genetic predisposition, be exposed to an environmental event, and then develop the disorder. Now we've talked before that drugs can serve as epigenetic agents, and we see here that abuse and neglect can also serve as epigenetic agents which are responsible for the onset of schizophrenia. Another hypothesis regarding the biological factors that play a role in schizophrenia is the dopamine hypothesis. This hypothesis suggests that schizophrenia involves excess dopamine activity. One reason this hypothesis came about was from the observation of individuals who overdose on major stimulants like methamphetamine and cocaine. These individuals, if you recall from our lesson on drugs, have similar behaviors and cognitions as those individuals with schizophrenia. Indeed, physicians have reported that it is difficult upon initial observation to determine whether somebody is schizophrenic, or whether they are overdosing from a major stimulant. Another factor supporting the idea of the dopamine hypothesis, in regards to schizophrenia, was that drugs that block dopamine appear to be effective in treating the positive symptoms of schizophrenia. However, there are some problems with the dopamine hypothesis. And we'll discuss that further in our next lesson, when we discuss treatments for mental disorders. Another neural transmitter that does seem to play a role in schizophrenia is Glutamate. It appears that Glutamate deficiencies may also explain the symptoms of schizophrenia. That is, Glutamate is important in learning, memory, neural processing and brain development. And it allows us to make some stimuli more important than others. Therefore, glutamate is crucial to selective attention, such as focusing attention on some items of information while ignoring others. And it may explain why these individuals have difficulty with sustained attention, cognitive control, and working memory. Now let's go back to Lauren with the brain regions associated with schizophrenia. The two main brain regions involved in schizophrenia are the prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus. If you remember, the prefrontal cortex is involved in working memory, paying attention and staying focused and organizing our thoughts. People suffering from schizophrenia have disfunction in this region of the brain. Secondly, people with schizophrenia often have smaller hippocampi, which affects learning and memory and can lead to some of the disorganized thinking seen in schizophrenia. Throughout this course, we've discussed human thought and behaviors processes that are driven by both nature and nurture. And this lesson on mental illness epitomizes the dynamic interplay between the two. That's right. And as we said throughout the course, we are like little chemical factories, making chemicals that help us live successfully in our environment. But as you've seen from this lesson, sometimes there can be a tragic disconnect between our individual nature and nurture experience which can result in mental illness. Although this lesson is sobering, we really hope that it shows you to be thankful the times that you're experiencing positive mental health. That's right, and remember that it's not unusual for us to experience highs and lows throughout our life, periods of anxiety or depression. But it's when we don't have these experiences that we should be fortunate and thankful for our good mental health. Now that you've completed this lesson, we hope that you're a more educated person in the terms of mental health literacy and that any negative stereotype or stigma that you may have once had are now diminished or completely removed. We as humans are unique and fascinating creatures and it's not uncommon for us to experience difficulties in the sometimes challenging world. However, when those difficulties manifest themselves through mental illness, that can be challenging in and of itself. However, as we'll see in the next lesson, there are a variety of techniques that can help reduce the symptoms of mental illness such that people can live fulfilling, meaningful, adventurous, and proud lives. There's absolutely no shame in mental illness. And in our next lesson, we're going to learn about the treatments for mental disorders. Mental disorders are much more common than many of us think. Almost half of us will experience a mental disorder at some time in our lifetime. According to the main guide for clinical psychologists, the DSM-5, diagnosing mental disorders involves all four of the four D's: Disturbance, Dysfunction, Distress, and Deviance. There are many different categories of disorders but some of the major ones are those experienced in childhood. Like autism spectrum or ADHD. Mood disorders, such as anxiety disorders, depression, and bipolar disorder. Obsessive-compulsive disorders. Post-traumatic stress disorder. Dissociative disorders. Bodily-somatic disorders. Personality disorders. And, finally, the major thought disorder known as schizophrenia. Now, remember, a very important point about disorders is that there is a range from normal to dysfunctional. And everyone experiences everyday forms of these, but they're not necessarily actually disorders unless they have all four of those D's: Disturbance, Dysfunction, Distress, and Deviance. In our last lesson, we discussed various psychological disorders and in this lesson we're going to discuss the treatment of those disorders. Now, the bottom line is that there many effective treatments for all sorts of psychological disorders. That's right, and we're going to break this lesson up into three broad areas, and that includes biological treatments, psychological treatments and combined treatments. I am going to be discussing the biological treatments. And those include drug therapy, psychosurgery, and electric and magnetic therapies. And I'll be discussing the psychological therapies. Which include psychoanalytic therapy, humanistic positive therapy. Behavioral therapy. Cognitive behavioral therapy, and group therapies. And finally I will be discussing combined therapies. And combined therapies are when we combine drugs and psychotherapy, integrative therapies, as well as when we combine mindfulness in psychotherapy. So without further ado lets begin this last lesson in psychology beginning with the biological treatments. Susan. Alright lets get started. Let's begin with the biological treatments starting with drug therapy. By this time in the course you are well versed in the importance of neurotransmitters and brain functioning. And in the last lesson, we discussed the medical model of mental illness. Here we see that drug therapy follows that medical model. That is, we can prescribe medicines that change the functioning of neurotransmitters. Which in turn can alleviate the symptoms of mental illness. Now, remember these drugs are called psychotropic drugs. Prior to the development of drugs for mental illness, people with mental disorders, as we mentioned in the last lesson, were often treated poorly. There were not effective behavioral therapies, or psychotherapy developed, to help individuals manage their symptoms. And therefore, many people resided in mental institutions or state hospitals. In fact, by 1955 there were over half of a million of a people of the United States who were living in mental institutions. Then came the discovery of the phenothiazines. These were initially developed as antihistamines, and they were first studied for their mildly sedating action. Chlorpromazine, that goes by the trade name Thorazine was the second phenotiazine discovered and it was found produced calmness, conscious sedation, disinterest in and detachment from external stimuli. This condition was termed a Neuroleptic state and chlorpromazine was the first antipsychotic or neuroleptic drug. And these are used to manage psychosis. Neuroleptic drugs are strong tranquilizers that are perscribed for Schizophrenia. These drugs are effective for treating the symptoms of Schizophrenia because they decrease delusions and hallucinations. In fact, these were so effective, that by 1993, fewer than 220,000 people were still residing in mental institutions. The dramatic decrease in those living in institutions was due to the development of drug therapy. These individuals were now able to manage their symptoms and they could leave the hospital and live with family members or in group homes. Since the 1980s there are a number of new and effective drug therapies for treating mental illness. Let's take a look at some of the treatments for the mood and anxiety disorders. Now, there are six major categories of drugs that are used to treat the mood and anxiety disorders. And those are the monoamine oxidase inhibitors, or MAOI. The selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRI's. The tricyclic antidepressants, the barbiturates, the benzodiazepenes, and Lithium. But let's start by taking a look at the MAOI's and the tricyclics The MAO inhibitors andtTricyclics were introduced in the late 1950's and early 1960's. They both increase levels of norepinephrine and serotonin. The MAO inhibitors work by increasing the availability of serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine. However, the use of MAOs is limited due to the side effects and toxicity. That is, users must avoid certain foods and drugs to prevent serious side effects. One such side effect is a life threatening increase in blood pressure. The tricyclics were discovered when researchers were working to create a better phenylthiazine antipsychotic and found a drug that improved mood. Although not effective for all patients, they do reduce the severity and duration of the depressive episodes. The tricyclics include the drug imipramine, and that drug was discovered accidentally. Some of the tricyclics are also used in the management of chronic pain, for bed wetting, and for the treatment of ADHD, as we saw in the discussion on drugs in our consciousness lesson, drugs can produce side effects and the side effects for the tricyclics include dry mouth, irritability, weight gain, confusion and constipation. Please read the document we posted in the instructor's note box, because you're going to need to know this information for the rest of this section. Another drug used to treat depression is Buprenorphine or Wellbutrin. And this is chemically unrelated to the tricyclics, the MAOIs, and the SSRIs. It inhibits the uptake of norepinephrine and dopemine which are associated with the arousal and positive mood. In addition, the drug is also marketed under the name Zyban and it serves as a smoking cessation aid. Now we asked you to read material in the instructors' note section on the different types of drugs that are used to treat the different types of disorders. Now that you've done that, let me ask you this question. If someone had a panic disorder that was comorbid with major depressive disorder, which of the following would most likely be prescribed? Do you think it would be a neuroleptic or antipsychotic such as chloropromazine, a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor such as Prozac, Lithium which is an element that we discussed, or a stimulant such as the d-amphetamine? Think about it for a moment and choose one. Did you choose and SSRI? If you did, good job. As you can see there are a number of effective drug therapies for treating the mood and anxiety disorders. However, drugs are also used to treat some of the neurodevelopmental disorders that we talked about in the last lesson. For example, stimulant drugs are use to treat children with ADHD. Now recall that stimulant drugs help combat some of the difficulty that children experience with concentrating. That is, the stimulants improve their ability to concentrate. Now let's switch gears and talk about drug therapy for schizophrenia. As I mentioned at the beginning of this lesson, the phenothiazines were discovered in the 1950s and they were found to be more effective than placebo. That is, when patients were given a placebo their symptoms did not improve, but when they were given the phenothiazine their symptoms did improve. These drugs help reduce the hallucinations, delusions, agitation, and paranoia that these patients experienced. Therefore, these drugs became widely used. Now there are two major groups of antipsychotics. The conventional antipsychotics, which were made before the mid 1990s and the atypical antipsychotics, which have been developed in about the last ten years. The antipsychotics produce pseudo-Parkinson symptoms, and these include tremors, and uncontrolled shaking. This indicates a link to dopamine receptors. The atypical antipsychotics reduce the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, such as hallucinations, and delusions. Moreover, they also improve the negative symptoms. Which is not seen from the conventional anti-psychotics. Now, how do the antipsychotics treat the positive symptoms of schizophrenia? Think about it for a moment and type your response here. It's okay if you can't recall, just try and remember. Did you say that they reduce hallucinations and delusions? If so, you're correct. Good job. The antipsychotics are considered safe and thats because they are not addictive, and they are difficult to use to commit suicide. However, again, as with all drugs there are side effects. The side effects include skin rashes, jaundice, photo-sensitivity, meaning they're more likely to be sunburned if they go out in the sun, low white blood cell count, and movement disorders. And these movement disorders include tremors, muscle rigidity, a shuffling type walk, and a mask like face. In addition they also produce Tardive Dyskinesia. Tardive dyskinesia consists of repetitive involuntary movements of the jaw, tongue, face and mouth. Things such as grimacing and lip smacking, and also body tremors. Moreover, these effects may continue for months after the drug is discontinued. Now we just finished talking about drug therapy as a biological treatment. So lets move on to the second major area of biological treatment and that is psychosurgery. Psychosurgeries involve medical procedures on the brain in an attempt to alleviate the symptoms of psychological disorders. Now the first psycho-surgery going to discuss was actually widely over-used, and had tragic consequences including sometimes death. This is the pre-frontal lobotomy. The lobotomy involved cutting the connection between the pre-frontal cortex and the lower area of the brain. Now this technique is no longer used today. But if you think back to the material on lesson three in the brain and behavior, you'll see why this procedure dramatically changed the individual. We know that the prefrontal cortex is important in thinking, and it's imperative for working memory and planned action, and the lower area of the brain is more concerned with emotion. Therefore, some believe the surgery will have the affect of modifying behavior and perhaps disengaging the disruptive thought patterns associated with hallucinations and confused thinking. In reality the procedure produced profound personality changes, often leaving the person listless or appearing absent. In addition there was a likelihood of experiencing seizures. In many cases, people were left in a vegetative state. Now the lobotomy was performed by taking a sharp instrument and placing it near the corner the eye, hammering that in, and then moving the instrument back and forth, thereby, modifying or destroying parts of the brain. The lobotomy has a tragic and torrid history, in that, in nearly four decades approximately 40,000 lobotomies were performed. If you're interested in the history of the lobotomy there's a lot of information available on the web. In addition, you may be interested in a book about Walter Freeman. Who's considered one of the most scored physicians because he performed approximately 3,500 of those 40,000 lobotomies. The name of the book is entitled "My Lobotomy" by Howard Dully. In that book, Mr Dully explains his experience of getting a prefrontal lobotomy from Walter Freeman. Now, we're going to post a link from a PBS special in the instructor's note box. I want to warn you that this video is extremely graphic because it shows actual lobotomies being performed. Therefore, I want to warn you that it can be very upsetting, disturbing, or disconcerting to watch. So please think carefully before you do so. Because of the tragic effects of the lobotomy and its over use, today's psycho surgeries are only used, as a last resource after all other therapies are proven to be uneffective. ECT is administered by passing electric current through the brain in a order to induce a seizure. And ECT is administered by placing electrodes on the head, and passing that electrical current through for approximately one third to half a second. And the voltage ranges between 60 and 140 volts. Now this voltage is not lethal because it's delivered to the head, however, if that voltage were delivered to the chest it would be lethal. Early in its use, ECT often produced fractures, because a person was experiencing seizure and convulsions. Therefore, today patients are given a muscle relaxant and an anesthetic, before the ECT is administered. Thus what was once a violent procedure due to the convulsions, shaking, and broken bones, now only results in a slight tremor because of the muscle relaxant. Now, it may typically take at least six to 12 sessions at ECT, before a person is relieved of their depressive symptoms. In addition, after ECT treatment, many patients are relieved of their depressive symptoms, which they did not experience with other treatments. Now the exact mechanism of action or cause of why ECT is effective, is still not known and research continues in that area. In addition to ECT, repetitive, transcranial, magnetic stimulation is another form of treatment for treating severe depression. And this involves exposing specific parts of the brain to bursts of high-intensity magnetic fields as opposed to electricity. Again, this treatment is only used as a last resort when a person did not respond positively to other forms of treatment. Some of the side effects can include a mild headache or brief light-headedness. In addition, the person's scalp, face, and jaw may contract and tingle during the procedure. Now let's review treatments from the Biological Approach. First, we have drug therapy. Remember that with the development of the Neuroleptics or Antipsychotics, we found effective treatments for people with Schizophrenia. Recall that the drugs were the Phenothiazines, including Chlorpromazine. And that Chlorpromazine reduced the positive symptoms associated with Schizophrenia. Such as the delusions, and the hallucinations. We call also that we have three classes of drugs that have been used to treat depression. And those are the MAO Inhibitors, the tricylics, and the SSRIs, Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors. These have all been proven to be effective in the treatment of depression, And we also discussed that the SSRIs are used to treat anxiety as well. We also mentioned briefly that the tricyclics are sometimes used for treating chronic pain, and for bedwetting, and also for the treatment of ADHD. In addition, we discussed the use of both the benzodiazepines, and the barbiturates, in the treatment of anxiety. But that the benzodiazepines are preferred over the barbiturates, because they are safer. We also discussed the long term negative consequences of using the benzodiazapines as they are cognitive inhibitors. Also, you read about Lithium and that it's been prescribed for a long time, because of it's ability to stabilize the mania associated with Bipolar Disorder. And we also have the stimulants. The stimulants help improve a person's ability to concentrate. And recall that, also, from the biological approach are the pyschosurgeries that we discussed. Briefly, you'll recall that we talked about the Prefrontal Lobotomy and that it produce tragic effects and is no longer in use today. So this material here is for a historical perspective, to see how far we've actually come in the area of psychology. So lobotomy, remember, is not used today. We also discussed Electroconvulsive therapy, or ECT, and it's used in the treatment of major depressive disorder. Recall here that an electric current is passed through the persons brain in order to induce a seizure. And afterwards, people report an absence of their depression symptoms. And finally we discussed Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation, also for the treatment of depression. So together, for the biological approach, we had our drug therapies as well as our psychosurgeries. Our second major area of treatment are psychological treatments. This is what a lot of people think of when they think of a psychologist, a therapist sitting on a couch talking to someone. Psychotherapy uses psychological techniques to modify behavior and thought patterns, or both. And it also helps a patient develop insight into their own behaviors. In this type of treatment, a therapist will work with a client, either alone or in groups, and in most, but not all of these techniques, a therapist will talk with the client. That's why it's sometimes referred to as talk therapies. These psychotherapeutic approaches include: psychoanalytic therapy, humanistic positive therapy, behavioral therapy, cognitive therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy. We'll start with a brief discussion on Sigmund Freud, whose ideas are at the center of psychoanalytic theory. Now psychoanalytic therapy is the original form of talk therapy. It's oriented towards major personality change with a focus on uncovering unconscious sexual and aggressive motives, especially through dream interpretation. He believed that each dream was an attempt to fulfill unacceptable desires or satisfy unconscious impulses, thoughts, feelings, and drives. Freud believed that dreams were the royal road to the unconscious. A key technique developed by Freud for interpreting dreams and getting at the unconscious motives was free association. This is when a patient says absolutely every association he or she has about an image in a dream, no editing allowed. Then the therapist helps interpret the dream through the symbolic meaning the associations have. When effective, dream interpretation uncovers unconscious conflicts, and this in turn can alleviate neurotic symptoms. Now let's move on to another form of psychotherapy. But first, let me ask you a question. Let's say you're a therapist and you had a client with very little self esteem. Who wouldn't apply for any jobs because they didn't think they were good enough. And wouldn't go out on any dates because they didn't think anyone would ever like them because they're just a worthless individual. How would you treat your patient? Write your response here. Don't worry, I'm not looking for exact wording or anything like that. Just let me know how you'd handle this situation. Well, some psychologists would argue that you should show unconditional positive regard. And that's what we're going to move onto next. Do you remember back in our lesson on motivation and emotion when we discussed Maslow's hierarchy of needs, and we talked the top level of the hierarchy, which was self-actualization? Well, our next type of psychotherapy was developed by Carl Rogers, and its purpose is to help a client reach their greatest potential. So, this top layer of the hierarchy. This is called client-centered therapy. This is a form of humanistic therapy where the therapist shows unconditional positive regard for the patient, meaning the therapist genuinely accepts the individual and empathizes with the client, no matter what the person has done. The basic idea behind Rogers' humanistic therapy is that the mismatch between who people think they are and who they think they should be, or would like to be, is the source of their low self-esteem and problems. In other words, there's a mismatch between the real and the ideal self. The job of the therapist, therefore, is to be so accepting of the person that their real self and ideal self becomes one and the same. That is, they like who they really are and they accept who they really are. The end result of a successful treatment would be that the individual develop a strong sense of self worth, and that he or she has the confidence to strive for self-fulfillment. Our next psychotherapy is based on the principles of operant and classical conditioning, and that's behavioral treatments. Behavioral treatments are used to treat a variety of disorders, from autism to ADHD, drug addiction, anxiety, depression, phobias, even schizophrenia and intellectual disabilities. And because this is Susan's area of expertise, I'm going to pass it over to her for a little bit. The first published study to demonstrate the use of behavioral principles in treating psychological disorders was published in 1959 by Teodoro Ayllon and Jack Michael, and it was titled The Psychiatric Nurse as a Behavioral Engineer. Now, Jack Michael was actually on my masters and Ph.D committees, and he continues to contribute important work in the field of behavior analysis, and that includes both the experimental analysis of behavior and applied behavior analysis. Now in this particular study, they demonstrated how you could use Skinner's operant conditioning principles to decrease the symptoms of mental disorders. In addition, this was the first study that actually started the field of applied behavior analysis. So, let's look at ABA in more detail. A key idea to many behavioral therapies is the use of reinforcement to shape and change behavior. However, other techniques are used, such as extinction, and this was used in the study I just talked about with the psychiatric nurse as a behavioral engineer. They used extinction to decrease symptoms of schizophrenia, but let's look at a different type of therapy that uses reinforcement. One successful ABA technique that is used by behavioral therapists, is a token economy. And here desired behaviors are reinforced with a token. That could be something like a sticker, a star on the board or some type of chip. These tokens are accumulated, and can later be exchanged for other items or privileges. For example, a child with ADHD may be put on a token economy. Wherein he gets a token for every homework assignment that he completes on time. After he accumulates 5 stars, he gets 10 extra minutes of recess. Moreover, if he earns 10 stars he gets to go on the field trip with the class. The token economy technique has been found to be especially effective in treating drug addiction. So, let's look at example of that. Steven Higgins and his colleagues conducted a series of studies, where they gave cocaine dependent participants tokens for each drug free urine sample that they provided. In some of the studies, the value of the tokens increased for each consecutive drug free sample. So for example, perhaps the first token was worth $0.25, if they provided a drug free urine on the next day it would be increased to $0.50. On the third day if they provided a drug free sample it would go to $0.75. Now remember these were just tokens, they didn't earn actual money, and part of this was because they wanted to make sure that the tokens could be exchanged for appropriate items. Meaning they didn't want to give these individuals money and perhaps risk them taking that money and going out and buying drugs. So again, if drugs were found in the urine, the value of the token decreased to the original starting value. So again if they had consecutive drug free urines, the token value increased each time. But if drugs were found in the urine, it went back to the original starting value. In these studies the researchers found a significant decrease in drug using. Especially compared to other therapies such as narcotics anonimous. These individuals spent longer time drug-free, than individuals in those other treatments. Given the success of these types of studies, this behavioral approach has been listed by the National Institute of Drug Abuse as the best option for drug addiction, along with medication. Has anyone ever used a token economy with you in order to change your behavior? Yes or no. If you're willing to discuss this, this would a good topic on the discussion boards. Many of us have been exposed to token economies. I remember being exposed to a token economy in elementary school, where we earned stars for every book that we read. And at the end of the semester, we could trade those stars in for all types of valuable toys and activities. Also parents use token economies quite often with their children. When they try to get them to do their homework, to brush their teeth or make their bed. So, for example, a child can earn a star for every day of the week that they make their bed. And at the end of the week, those stars can be traded in for activities such us video game playing or perhaps even earning money to buy a new toy. Finally, if any of you have ever watched the show Super Nanny, you have seen her put token economies to excellent use in trying to manage child behavior. Another technique that's based on behavioral principals is systematic desensitization. This is used in treatment of phobias. This technique pairs the event that produces the anxiety with a stimulus that elicits an incompatible response such as relaxation. This is referred to as counterconditioning. For example, think back to when we introduced Tickles the snake. Snakes are a common phobia for individuals. And for a person who has a phobia of snakes, if they saw one, he or she would experience uncomfortable levels of anxiety. With systematic desensitization, the therapist would create a hierarchy of stimuli snakes. So, for example, they may have a client just imagine looking at a snake. But while doing so, the therapist teaches the client how to relax. These relaxation techniques in turn are then used by the client when exposed to stimuli on the hierarchy. This approach relies on reciprocal inhibition which is the underlying process of counterconditioning. And it states that certain responses are incompatible with each other. So with this, the occurrence of one response inhibits the other. For example, you can't be relaxed and anxious at the same time. Systematic desensitization is a very effective treatment for phobias and is widely used. Now let's say you had a phobia of snakes, and your therapist going to use systematic desensitization. First you learn the relaxation techniques, then your therapist starts pairing the relaxation techniques with snake-related stimuli. Now I want you to place the level of exposure you are about to see on a hierarchy that you would expect therapist to use when gradually exposing you to a snake. Seeing a picture of a snake in a terrarium, seeing a real snake in a terrarium across the room. Holding a snake, seeing the word snake in print, seeing a picture of someone holding a snake. Hearing the word snake, imagining a snake, and seeing someone hold a snake from across the room. Write a letter in each one of these boxes that goes from the least exposure, so the first things that you'd be exposed to to get rid of your snake phobia, to the most exposure. For example, this would be the last day of your therapy and you are no longer scared of snakes. So to start off with the least exposure, your therapist will probably make you hear the word snake and then move up to seeing the word snake and print, remind you these two things might be switched and you may see it before you hear it, but the fact is these are going to be very low on the list. Then your therapist would make you imagine a snake. The next step up would probably be seeing a picture of a snake in a terrarium. Then after that maybe seeing a picture of somebody holding a snake. And then after that finally seeing a real snake, but it's in a terrarium across the room. Then next, you might be ready to see somebody actually holding the snake across the room. And finally, the most exposure, would of course be holding the snake yourself. Another behavioral technique that involves exposing a person to the feared stimulus is flooding. Flooding is based on the response prevention principle. Flooding involves prolonged exposure to the feared stimulus, which in turn provides maximum opportunity for the fear to be extinguished. Now, unlike systematic desensitization, which slowly exposes a person to a stimulus, flooding does it all at once. Now, at times, flooding can actually make a phobia worse and it has to be used carefully. For example, with people with medical conditions. And you can't use it with all types of phobias. For example, house fires. Another interesting and effective behavioral technique is aversion therapy. Aversion therapy works by reducing the attractiveness of a stimulus by pairing it with an adversive stimulus. For example, it can be used with alcohol. By pairing alcohol with an aversive stimulus such as nausea. Same can be said with rapid smoking, which induces nausea, and therefore makes a person feel aversive towards cigarette smoking. It's also been used with pedophelia, where they pair inappropriate sexual stimuli with an inversive response, such as nausea In the last twenty years, one approach to treating Autism has been far superior to other forms and has much empirical support. This approach follows ABA principals, and this specific technique was pioneered by Ivar Lovaas. And is termed Early Intensive Behavioral Intervention, or EIBI. It's termed Early, because the children with autism begin treatment very early in their lives, some as young as 18 months. It's termed Intensive, because it requires 20 to 40 hours of therapy per week. EIBI has been shown to improve adaptive behavior, expressive language, receptive language and daily communication skills. Moreover, it improves daily living skills, and some studies have shown increases in IQ. Therapist use the principles of ABA to teach children with Autism Spectrum Disorders verbal behavior and communication skills. They also teach these children how to play, as this is a skill that they often lack. This evidence based therapy using ABA was recently the subject of the California senate. When they unanimously passed an extension to an autism law that requires insurance companies to cover ABA therapies for treating ASD. And they did so, because these therapies are effective. We just discussed some behavioral aspects of treatment such as token economies and systematic desensitization, but let's touch on cognitive therapy and then see how the 2 are combined. Cognitive therapies any type of cycle therapy that works to restructure Irrational thought patterns. Here, the therapist will talk to the client in an attempt to identify irrational thought patterns, and then the therapist will actually challenge the client on those thoughts. For example, perhaps the client tells the therapist, I'm fat, ugly, smelly, stupid, and nobody loves me. The therapist would challenge her on those irrational thoughts. She may, for example, ask the client Is it really the case that nobody loves you? You have the support of your family, your friends, and your boyfriend. And they've all contributed in some way to help you through this depression that you're experiencing. And that's challenging the clients thoughts. Now challenging a person to look at their irrational thoughts in a logical way, can perhaps change a persons thought patterns. As you can see that combining the behavioral approach, which changes maladaptive behaviors, with the cognitive approach, which changes maladaptive thoughts, can create a very successful treatment option. Cognitive behavioral therapy, or "CBT" combines restructuring of irrational thoughts with operate and classical conditioning techniques to reshape desirable behaviours. Together, this has revolutionized the treatment of many psychological disorders. Finally, we have group therapies and support groups. Group therapy is a therapeutic setting in which several people who share a common problem all meet regularly with a therapist to help themselves and to help each other. These groups tend to be very structured. Some group therapies, for example, offer training and learning to overcome social anxiety disorder and others may use cognitive behavioral therapy to treat eating disorders. Now, there are other groups that are less structured in the therapeutic context. And these are support groups. These are meetings of people who share a common situation whether it's a disorder, disease, or even coping with an ill family member. Support groups are widely available and can be categorized in terms of their focus. For example, there's support groups for eating disorders, substance abuse, the treatment of OCD, even with coping with the loss of a loved one. Alcoholics Anonymous and other substance abuse groups are considered support groups and these are available all over the world. Now, more than ever, psychologists and psychiatrists in the U.S. are choosing evidence based treatments. Meaning treatments that have empirical evidence to support them. For the psychotherapies, cognitive behavioral therapy, and cognitive therapy seem to be the most effective tools in treating a variety of disorders. For example, some research suggests that cognitive therapy is as effective as anti-depressants in treating depression. In addition, behavioral therapy is very effective in treating a wide variety of disorder. However, we do stress that if you or a loved one has a psychological disorder that you seek a health care professional in determining the best treatment option for you. Now before we move on to the combined approach with Greg, let's do a quick recap of the psychological therapies. Let's first start with psychodynamic therapy. The goal of psychodynamic therapy is to uncover the repressed or unconscious thoughts, feelings, and motives one has. The techniques of psychodynamic therapy are things like dream interpretation, and free association. Now let's move on to humanistic therapies. The goal of humanistic therapy is to create conditions for optimal personal growth. The techniques for humanistic therapy are unconditional positive regard, and empathic listening. The goal of behavioral therapy is to change reinforcers and rewards, to change maladaptive behavior. The techniques include classical and operate conditioning, token economies, and systematic desensitization. The goal of cognitive therapy is to change emotions or irrational thoughts. The technique used in cognitive therapy is critical questioning, and challenge a person's thoughts with logic. The goal of cognitive behavioral therapy is to change behavior and thoughts. The technique used in cognitive behavioral therapy is to restructure thoughts, and use incentives for acquiring more adaptive thoughts and behaviors. There's also the use of appraisal. The goal of group therapy is to create a support group in a community to show the person that he or she is not alone. The technique for group therapy is something like a support group or a 12-step program. Now that we've done a brief overview of the psychological therapies, let's go on to Greg for our final section, which is the combined approach. So in this last section, we're going to discuss the combined approaches, of which there are three. When we combine psycho therapy and drugs and integrative therapy and mindfulness training and drugs. So lets talk about the first one first. Psychotherapy and drugs, so this is in fact a very effective and popular combination when we're treating anxiety and mood disorders. So the idea here is that the drugs will focus on and alleviate the anxiety of mood disorder, whereas as the psychotherapy helps the person manage their irrational thoughts. So another common combination treatment in therapy is when we combine cognitive behavioral therapy with drug therapy to treat depression. In fact, sometimes we also have in this mix a token economy behavior modification therapy. In fact, that combination of drug and token economy behavior modification is also seen in treating children with ADHD. So the idea is that this stimulant medication will help control some of the symptoms. And then every time the child acts in a non-hyperactive way, they get reinforced with a token. So our second combined therapy, are the integrative therapies. And these are eclectic. And by eclectic what we mean is that the therapist can use any technique he or she feels is best for the situation. So for example, in treating post traumatic stress disorder, sometimes we use prolonged exposure therapy. And prolonged exposure therapy is a combination of cognitive behavioral therapy and systematic desensitization and relaxation therapy. So the idea here is that the person thinks about, is exposed to the trauma in their, in their minds, they imagine it, but at the same time, they also are relaxed and have to stay relaxed. So, if that happens, they become desensitized to the trauma and it no longer bothers them. Now sometimes, in fact, drugs might also be added to this combination to help treat the anxiety and help with the relaxation. So the last type of combine approach that we will discuss and that has seen an increase in both research and in practice is mindfulness training and psychotherapy. Specifically, mindfulness based cognitive therapy or MBCT is an approach that combines elements of both cognitive behavioral therapy with mindfulness meditation to help people with depression for instance, to learn to recognize and restructure negative thought patterns. This therapy uses both mindfulness meditation and cognitive therapy to restructure one's thoughts. So mindfulness meditation develops skills for approaching thoughts in a non-judgmental way, and enhances people's ability to realize that they are neither bound nor defined by their thoughts, feelings, and sensations, and to detect symptoms before they become a problem. So this approach has been used successfully in preventing the relapse in depression, and in addition there's some research to show that mindfulness based meditation therapy has been used successfully in treating positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia. The idea here is that this therapy can be used by teaching people with schizophrenia to learn to live more easily with their symptoms, and to not be defined or controlled by them. One new approach focuses on changing the relationship that people have with the voices in their heads rather than trying to make those voices go away. Some early studies have shown that this technique results in less distress and improved functioning after training in mindfulness meditation. So if you're interested in trying meditaion, take a look in the instructor's note box. We've provided you with a link to more information about mindfulness meditation. So the last integrative therapy that we'll discuss today is called dialectical behavior therapy which uses a combination of cognitive behavioral therapy and mindfulness but without the meditation element. This is a common treatment for borderline personality disorder. And the idea here is that in this treatment, the person will earn to accept without judgement their actions and their emotions. And if this occurs, then they can have a great reduction in self harm behaviors, in substance abuse, and risk for suicide, and depression. And these are all common symptoms in borderline personality disorder. And dialectic behavior therapy can also be used in treating eating disorders, conduct disorders, and domestic violence. So to summarize our discussion of combined therapies, it's sometimes very useful to use the strengths of different techniques at the same time to best help treat various psychological disorders. Specifically, some of the most effective and popular combined therapies involve using psychotherapy with drug therapy or cognitive behavioral therapy with mindfulness mediation techniques. So because no one therapy typically can treat all aspects of a disorder, integrative therapies can sometimes be more effective than either one alone. We see from this lesson that there are a variety of different treatment options for psychological disorders. Psychologists from a biological perspective may use drugs or psychosurgeries as a treatment option. Whereas, some psychologists may favor psychotherapies, such as behavioral therapy, cognitive therapy, or even humanistic therapy for treatment. And given that so many of these treatments are effective and have evidence to support them. Many psychologists favor combining them. So for instance, we can combine cognitive behavioral therapy, with drug therapy to treat a lot of different kinds of disorders. And we also see that mind and space meditation is rising in popularity for a treatment option of disorders such as depression, anxiety, and even schizophrenia. In addition, if you remember our lesson on consciousness, you'll recall that there are other positive benefits to mindfulness meditation including decreased overall stress levels as well as improved mood. So it'll be interesting to see in the years to come what further research tells us about mindfulness based meditation. And finally, we see that by using a variety of these techniques, a person with a mental disorder can live a completely full, happy, productive and very enjoyable life, which is great news for all of us. Congratulations. You've completed this course. Thank you for taking the time and effort to do so. And we hope you've appreciated taking this class as much as we have creating it. And we want to give a special thanks to everyone who made this possible, from our guest experts to our team here at Udacity, with a special thanks to Calvin and Kugory who helped us produce this course. And now that we've come to a close in the course We hope you can fully appreciate understanding psychology; that is human thought and behavior. Both scientifically and clinically and about sometimes how these processes can go wrong, but if they do there are treatment options to help people. That's right. And we also hope you appreciate the complexity of our brains as well as knowing that we need to have a healthy brain to function successfully in our world. In addition, we hope that you appreciate the environment and how that shapes our behavior, and how it's really a combination of both nature and nurture that makes you, you. And because we're dedicated to making this the very best course we can make it. We hope that you can give us feedback on this anonymous survey to tell us what you liked, what you loved, and what you thought needed improvement. And even though you're done, check back in from time to time, because we're going to add new material. And you can further your knowledge on Psychology. 'Kay, cut. That's a wrap. It is a wrap. Yay. Woo. [clapping]