Hi. My name is Kevin Hale. I'm one of the partners at YCOMBINATOR. I'm also co-founder of Wufoo, which is an online form builder. I came to be a partner at YC actually because I was also someone who went through the program myself. I went through Y Combinator in the Winter of 2006, the first batch out here in California and I founded a company called Wufoo. Wufoo was an online forum builder, it helps create online surveys, power event registration, and process simple online payments. Ran that company for five years and we then sold that to Survey Monkey in 2011. Interesting thing about that company, it is not your typical type of Silicon Valley company. After we raised our funding, after demo day, we purposely only raised about $100,000 and then we moved back to Florida on the east coast and we operated out of there. We never had a centralized office so it's complete remote working team, and we only grew the company to about ten people, on purpose. There was a lot of money offered to us, but we were relatively profitable as a startup, so we never needed to take any money from venture capitalists or any other investors at the time. And when we were acquired, one of the interesting metrics that sometimes we talk about is that the average company that sold, or required, or went IPO that year was about, had raised $25 million and their average returns to their investor was about 600%. Wufoo only raised $100,000 for the life of the company and our returns to our investor was like, 29,000%. So, a lot of what I work on with companies that like combinators is focusing on building the kind of company that doesn't need to raise money from other people and being extremely efficient and productive with the resources they have at hand. Joe Kraus came to speak at Wycominator. He was the previous founder of Xsite, an old search engine company. And then eventually he did his own new start called JotSpot at the time, which was this freemium software-as-a-service wiki company. And they had set up pricing and in his talk at YC, it just made sense. It was like, oh, we thought about pricing where the top end tier of the pricing would be stuff that people didn't need to get. Permission from legal or financial or get a special document or review done, that people can just pay it on the corporate credit card. $200 a month, he said. It seems to be what the limits are for that. And then we step down the features based on the usage, downwards. And then we always knew we wanted to have a freemium plan. Or a free plan that people can try out the service because we felt like our user experience was going to be what sells a lot of what sells a lot of what Wufoo does. Although I think completely different about that now when I advise companies about going freemium. But that's how it started, it's just starting with his price and that made sense and then we figured out the tiers. Where it was going to be the cutoff for the functionality, just based on looking at our competitors. Here's what they do, can we be more generous? Do we have a guess on what's going to me us different or what have you? And I think one of the best things that we did is we offered plans that offered unlimited forms. Because it was this idea, you get them hooked into this idea that you can use forms for anything and everything. And yes, everyone's going to come in on one vertical or one very specific use case. But if you have the idea, it's like oh, there's an unlimited resource of these things. Which it kind of truly is, because the marginal cost of building another form, allowing people to make another one, costs us nothing. And so it's easy to be generous on that. But what we want to do is hook them in, where now everyone in the organization using Wufoo for all different kinds of uses cases. And then they start thinking about problem solving in the Wufoo ways, like I can use Wufoo for this, I can do this for this, or do this for this. And then that's what makes a subscription business do really well is that when people start relying you on in a long term relationship sort of way. It's like this is a long term solution for lots of different problems in the company. I think what's tricky is Wufoo's one of those generalized products where it could be used for lots of different stuff. We had every industry, market or vertical using Wufoo. And that is because forms is the first step of interaction of collecting data, interacting with people. Creativity was always our biggest problem. People not knowing what do I do with this. It sounds neat but how do I utilize it? So we spent a lot of time on education to get people get hooked on in their first use case, so that way they'll eventually learn the other ways to use it. So we knew from day one when we launched the service we were going to charge, so there was going to be paid plans on the service. We saw no reason why we should start off with a free plan. We were like, this is going to be a business that makes money, and in 2006 that was not vogue at the time. Quite honestly a lot of people were like, build it for free, get a bunch of users, and figure out how to monetize later. And we were just like, I don't know. It seems like we can monetize right now. Why don't we go ahead and start that and then we don't have to worry about the weirdness of? Like, it's easier to give more stuff for free than than it is to start charging stuff for later on. It's the way we thought about it. And so, when we did YC, we had not written any lines of code, and we started in the January of 2006. And that's when we first started writing and programming WuFu. And then we had an interface prototype in February, so in about a month. And that interface prototype allows you to see how a new way of building forms and designing them, but it didn't hook up to a database, you couldn't save it, you couldn't collect information. But it allowed people to see, like this is a better way of doing things, better than what you would see, say, from Microsoft InfoPath or other form builders out there. And we said like we should ship this. Right, like see what people say, basically do that step of talking users, getting engagement, and get people excited about it. And so we released an interface preview demo. And that demo, at the end of it you create and design the form, and when you hit the save, it says thanks for trying out the demo. When you want to know when we finally launch, give us your email address. And we got over 100,000 people to go through that demo, so that when we'd launch we'd be able to start off up front off of it. But, the thing is, part of that idea also, again, came from Joe Kraus surprisingly at the time, where he talks about like a lot of companies, what they don't realize is that they should not just beta test their product, but beta test their pricing. Right, their paid upgrade and conversion triggers. And you're never going to know that until you finally put a price up there and put a button that says you can't do this until you pay. And so like a lot of that just resonated with us. We were like, this company needs to be something that stands on its own, and I guess you could say we were the kind of founders that didn't have the risk profile that, say, like, we're going to take the risk on like, giving tons of things for free, try to figure out how to scale, and eventually monetize. To us, it was like, this is either going to be something people pay for, or it's not. And I think for 99% of BDB sort of companies and services, it's easy to do. I think I meet a lot of founders who think I'm building something, it's better than the competition, it's easier to use, it's faster, and then I'm going to charge a whole lot less for it, and I think that's usually a mistake that people have, or I'm just going to give it all away for free. That's just like, that's where you're losing out on a lot of opportunity and economics for stuff. There's pretty much a limited number of factors on reasons why people are going to upgrade to pay you for the service. For us, we had multiple tiers or pressure points that we had set up in the plan. It's going to be, for the early plans, how many forms are you going to need, if you wanted user management. For example, if you were wanting to have multiple people on your team have access to the resources at hand, you could easily charge by that. How many entries or data that you're going to process, which made sort of sense and then certain features that you wanted. For example, payment integration was one that would only be available on the higher planes. The idea was, the reason that you stratify on all these different areas is because different users will pay different things. In a product that was generalized as Wufoo, there's lots of industries, markets and verticals, different people had different pressure points. Our goal around the features was making sure people got to try before they buy. Seeing entries, being able to build the form, that was fine but like payment integration was only available on a middle tier plan but we wanted even free users to be able to try it out. We would figure out ways to say, for five transactions, you can try it out for yourself to see what it's going to be like. Having your own custom theme or logo, people care very much about I want this to be a part of my identity, and it was a big difference for Wufoo. What we tried to do was, in all the different ways that people might be pressured to upgrade, we tried to build that inside of Wufoo, and made it really obvious. Then it made sense that most people would send around the first plan that had one set of unlimited features, which would be unlimited forms on the middle plan. The reason you also have multiple pricing plans is because you don't know what the average revenue per user is going to be. If you could predict ahead of time that the average revenue per user is going to be, let's say, $25, then you could just have one pricing plan. It's free and then it's going to be this because that's about what it's going to be and that makes things a lot simpler but you don't know what that's ultimately going to be. So you have this grid, it's why people set it up, to capture that cost but some people, again, if you're going consumer versus going B2B, people have different price sensitivities. For us, we thought it was like this is going to be both consumer and B2B, and that was the case for us but it heavily skewed that most of our paying customers are all B2B. We had lots of people individually using the free plans but what would end up happening is those people and their free plans were our biggest word of mouth growth people. We made sure that Wufoo with the users on the free plan, we made it easy for them to talk about our services, share with other people and do all this, because that's who is going to be our champions on the individual side. On the B2B side, it's usually like they're spending someone else's money, someone else's budget, so they're less price sensitive. All they care about is does this help me get things done? A lot of the emphasis there is look, with one click this is just going to work, with one click you are going to install this template, with two seconds you are going to have this feature ready for you and you are don't have to worry about this anymore. It's all about that convenience and saving of time, and it's no going to cost you nothing, especially for people wanting payment integration, this is going to pay for itself really, really quickly and then showing that evidence of that. For our product line review we've had tons of features or lot's of people who are building really amazing products. Everything about my language is talking about like how do I make it so the user feels like they're kicking ass. because a lot of people like who are great building stuff, they're like they talk about features like look what we have, look what we're doing, look why this is awesome, this is going to be really cool. And it needs to be complete opposite, where it needs to be like look we use this, this is what's going to kick ass. And so it's all about the language and the features. Like I can say you get 1,000 entries, unlimited forms, you get payment integration. But that's just listing the features. What I need to say is look, you don't have to worry about data collection anymore, everyone in your department is going to have this installed on there. You get to make money off of this. Monetize like a couple of seconds, instead of having to wait for paying like thousands of dollars for someone to build a custom Ecommerce site for you. Beta test certain issues. User management like all that stuff has to be turned around when you're talking about this feature. So that took us a while to understand like okay, the motivations on why people want to be on certain plans and making sure it got communicated. You being on here, the reason you're on here is because of this, because it's all for you. And that took a real sort of empathy in terms of describing and sort of a knack for copy that's a flipside of how people think about things. Because like entrepreneurs are really good about talking about sells and pitching their company and all that stuff, but a lot of times they don't realize like the pitch you need to give is the pitch that allows people to talk about you to someone else. It's like I use this and it's my secret weapon, I'm sharing it with you now. And I'm now, like your most interesting person at the dinner able or you gave this tip that makes you look like the really awesome guy. And so a lot of people just don't even craft copy in a way that can be disseminated that easily. A lot of times they'll just use weird slogans and taglines, short phrases and stuff. And I was like I can't repeat that to someone and have it make any coherent sense on why you should use this service. In the last lesson, you learned about the most common monetization models used on a variety of platforms. And in this lesson, you'll choose and tailor a monetization strategy for your product. And you'll also learn how to set up tracking to monitor it's effectiveness. Let's get started. We seemed to have arrived at the moment of truth for our entrepreneurs. They've gotta pick a model to implement. Do you have any suggestions, Ito? Sure. In many cases, the choice is pretty clear. For example, most games are using a framing model and such, generally using subscriptions. Both benefits from the trust they created with their users. However, there is no replacement to keep trying and tuning the models that fit your special needs. There are rare cases where you have enough funding and you wish to focus on growth. It's totally fine, since the value of your company is composed from the current revenue stream and the future one. Let's also hear from some other startups to get their advise on choosing a monetization strategy. So when I'm advising companies on what kind of, on pricing and payment plans and how to think about monetization strategies. Again, asking them, hey is this a big enough market that freemium will sort of work, where a small percentage conversion of a large pool will make sense for this to be a large company and so you can just work the math backwards to make that work. Most of them have easy questions about pricing, like, what do I start charging this on? So the first comparison is like, do you have competitors charging for this? What do they charge? How does this sort of work? If you are thinking about enterprise companies, the way we usually do is try to figure out like well, how much money is the company already spending, on whatever it is, to solve this problem? Usually you're not solving a problem that nobody's working on. It's usually some problem that already exists in the company and you have a better way of doing it. And so the companies that will do poorly in an enterprise is when there's no budget carved out for solving a specific problem. So if there is no budget carved out, it is almost impossible to figure out how to generate money out of thin air. People can only spend money that is allocated to them by the division, the company, whatever the finances are at hand. Then the next thing is just saying, like how do you calculate how much money you're spending on it? So you just start off with like well how many people was dedicated the task? What's the average salary for those people? How much time is spent, and you can figure out there, and that's like your upper bound, right? And those people are already working on the problem, so you can't just charge that upper bound right to begin with, because basically you're saying those people have a job. And those people are probably going to have to be your champions. So you have to figure out some way, it's like this somehow eats a lot of their time. They want to do other parts of their job, or what have you, and you figure out some in between on that. And usually I say like figure out some kind of smart guess and just start with your first customer. And for enterprise pricing, you can adjust. Depending on how fast they answer the question, you're going to move the price up or down. The biggest thing is just start with some kind of model. One of the biggest mistakes, I think, some companies do, is they start people off on free pilots, that's like oh, just try it. The program, we won't charge you anything, we'll try it for 60 or 90 days, and we'll figure out where we go from there. And I think that's a poor way of thinking about stuff. Again, you don't set yourself up to figure out how to one, map out the organization, to figure out what is it going to take to actually close, you don't beta test your pricing. As all these questions come near that, you just are kicking the can down the road, and so what I usually advise is say look, we don't have free trials in our company. We can provide a service that is of value. Here's what I can do for you. We start off with a the three month plan, it's going to cost this much money and if you are not satisfied with the product or service, 100% money back guarantee. But that way you can play the safe. But that way you have gone through the actual process of navigating enterprise pricing and payment and accounting, and legal and all that stuff just to get to that process. And if they're not even interested in that, then that means that maybe you don't have a product that people actually want to begin with. The other one is to think about incentives in terms of your sales force. And also in terms of people's reasons to buy. And the best model I've ever heard about this actually came from Phil Libin from Evernote, and he actually talked about a concept that he learned from someone else, and it was about the pricing thermometer. And the idea is that there's three numbers associated with, like, pricing. And so you have like the cost of the product here, you have the price of the product, and then you have the value of the product. And those are three numbers associated with a service or product. And it says that gap between the cost and the price of the product, that is considered that gap in distance is incentive to sell, right? So because it's like oh, for every one of these I sell I make that much money as a company. The gap between value to price, that is incentive to buy for the customer, right? And so where you put the price on the line controls where are the pressures for buying and selling. Right, and so, for example, Evernote, they charge $30 a year, and they've never changed that pricing. And the idea is like we want all the energy around our software service to be incentive to buy. Right, because like wow. This product all it sort of offers has high value to me, so it make me want to buy it. And there's enough people and enough pressure on there, makes it worth it. And what's amazing about that, is if you can make that work, it grows by word of mouth and organically. They don't need a huge sales force to sell this because the value in itself automatically makes the sell sort of happen. Usually a lot of people want to do is, like figure out like how do I get the price as close to value as possible. And then what you do is you destroy one of those impulses for sort of people. And also, the feedback loop that you generate for your salespeople is usually pretty broken. Right? because they'll do anything to sort of sell it, and the reason why people want to talk about is completely different. It's like yeah, it's going to be really expensive. You kind of get what you pay for, but I'm not super excited about it. And anyone that is willing to increase that gap in the other direction can undercut you as a result. And they undercut you not because, oh this is a better price or better value but it's because now there is two pressures in there to make you want to consume or upgrade what have you The first and most obvious of all of the pricing strategies, is simply to have a paid apper game. This generally appears like it's going to be a minimum amount of revenue that you'll obtain, but the outcome isn't always as clear. When you're deciding to do a paid app or a paid game, make sure that the quality is extremely high because people are going to expect this for this type of an app. If you're just testing out your MVP, the minimum viable product, and you don't necessarily know where it lies on the quality spectrum. Then you might want to choose a different modulation method. With choosing a paid method, so this is outright paid, it's best to look at all of the different types of similarly paid apps or games to determine the best pricing strategy. This might vary from country to country or from time of year. For instance, if you want to get a lot of users very quickly and you're not too worried about the return during the holidays, you might want to lower a price point. If it's during the summer and you don't really see like a huge rush, maybe it's a better idea to price it a bit more. Of course, having a paid app or game doesn't mean that you also can't have IAPs. Or ads. But, you have to be extremely careful not to overdo it on those types of things, because there can be push back from your users or players. There is no best choice between interstitials that deliver CPC or CPI. It really depends on what's converting the best in the end. So you've heard some advice from experts and now it's time for you to choose a monetization model to implement in your product. Once you've chosen a model take a minute and write a bit about why you chose it, how you expect it to perform, what you might need to optimize in the model, and if it turns out you're not making money, what might plan B be? Use this box to record your response. Congratulations on choosing a Monetization Model. Whatever your choice might be, you've taken the first step in making money off of your app. In the videos that follow, we'll go through some of the steps necessary for implementing your chosen method. Let's take a look at how to add ads to your site. In order to serve ads on your site, you need an account with one of the ads providers. We will use AdSense account for our demo. We'll chose to show you how to create responsive ad units because you are building a responsive site. Right? So use responsive ad units. Responsive ads automatically resize based on the size of the device and the width of the parent container. This will ensure that the ad works in line with your responsive layout and the site will look great on any device. So, first step, we're opening the home page of AdSense, and clicking on my ads. Then we'll click on new ad unit, and we'll give it a name. For our purpose, we'll call it demo two. We're choosing the responsive size, like we said before, and then we have the option to choose the type. Let's go with the default here. Then we could choose the style. I like this one. And of course you could do here the best to match the theme of your site. And then we are just clicking, save and get the code. Now all you need to do is just to copy and paste this inline code to your html. We've gone over some examples for monetizing using ads on both the web and on native devices. Now implementation for the other methods are actually pretty similar, right? That's right. For all other methods, one-time charge, in-app payment, subscriptions, and others, you really just need to set up your payment system. Whether you choose Braintree, Stripe, PayPal, Google Pay or Apple, doesn't matter. It's best follow the instructions on each of their sites. We've included links to each of these in the instructor notes below. After you've set up your payment method, it's time to set prices and monitor performance. After you decide which model you wish to implement, it's time to shape it and learn from it what is working and what's not. We'll go into the details of how to track success in the next lesson. But, it's important to get the hooks in place early, so that you can monitor performance later. At this point, you also probably want to track as much as possible. Think about any actions and events that you can learn from, and add them to the tracking, so that it's set by default. If you have a decent audience, it might be a good idea to test your model on x% of your users, and learn from it. If you want to learn more about A/B testing, we've linked to another A/B testing course on Udacity in the instructor notes. In the next node, we'll provide resources telling you exactly how to set up tracking in your product. We recommend that you follow the steps now to get things set up early. If you currently don't have a product that you can track, then we recommend reading through the resources to familiarize yourself with the process. And then bookmark relevant resources to return to later. Hope to set up tracking and goals with Google analytic. The first step would be to gain a code from Google Analytic that will let it execute on your website. The best way to do it is to go to Google Analytic Website, and click on the Admin section then you could click here and add a new account. You could choose here between a Website to your Mobile app. Give it a meaningful name like demo1. In my case it will be Ido's project. And let's give it a URL. And from here of course, you need to decide in which category you are going to be. In our case it's Internet, the Time Zone, and some other aspects of the data sharing that you're going to do. And by clicking getting tracking ID you're basically accepting of course, the terms of use of Google Analytic. And after you accept them you'll get the tracking code. Here it is. With the right information, how to put it on your website. Once we do this preliminary phase, we can jump into setting up our goals. The first way to set goals is because goals are very versatile way to measure how well our site or app fulfills target objectives. You can set up individual goals for discreet actions like, how many users reach out our thank you page? What are the top exlending pages? What are the bounce rates on each one? Where do people interact with the site? Let's take for example, my own site and set up a goal. I'm clicking on the Admin to get into the Admin tab and then I'm clicking on Goals. It's really important to use analytics with monetization because you really want to understand your users. So as an app developer, knowing more information about your users will allow you to tailor it and change things and tweak things so that you can try to figure out, okay, why did someone stop at this level? Maybe it was too hard for them, or maybe you have to offer an in app purchase, or something like that. That allows them to really understand how to get to the next piece of monetization. Right? So the more data that you have the more it helps you understand, okay what do I have to do to tweak my app to get to the next phase of your business. So it's really great for startups who are getting started with Google Analytics. There's a default implementation that allows them to get started really quickly and easily with some key features that they'll get to get right off the bat. The first one is the number of users in sessions. The second is session duration, they can know their operating systems, the device models, and geography. So, right off the bat they don't have to do much because they get that information right off when they set it up. After that, that's when they can go even more deeper to get some more details about users. Things like who are more likely to buy in-app purchases, people who are stopping at a certain level for game specific app. Or if someone who just drops off and hasn't use the app in the long time. Well, there are lots of features within Google Analytics, but the top three that I would say that are really important, the first one is measuring events. And events is learning how to measure user engagement and with an interactive content like buttons or videos, or any other media that's inside the app itself. The second one is measuring in-app payments or transactions that are within the app. And the third one is measuring your campaign effectiveness. So this is how you can implement campaign measurement to understand which channels and campaigns are doing app installs for your app today. A common misperception of Google Analytics is that it's a web-only solution. This is not the case. We've made huge strides in the last year to make it very mobile friendly. In fact, you'll start to see stats that are very specific to mobile data within the in the user interface. So I think right now the big thing is that because Google analytics has always been known as a web tool. People don't really think to use it for mobile apps. But there's a whole section of learning on our website today. To learn more about how we can help them. There are a few really common pitfalls that developers should avoid. First and foremost, it's using your analytics improperly. A good example of this is relying on vanity metrics. Vanity metrics are things such as daily active users. These might be extremely large, attractive numbers, 100,000, a million people but they don't actually tell you how the app or the game is performing. You might have a huge number of people but nobody's actually monetizing, or the percentage of the people that are monetizing, even though the average revenue per user is really high, the percentage of total people who are making a purchase is absurdly low. You're leaving money on the table. Make sure that you're not relying on those vanity metrics. Make sure you're tracking exactly the right things. Only things that actually determine whether or not you're making money or retaining users. It might be interesting to see how many people are engaging with the multiplayer feature within your game but if it's not actually contributing to your monetization, the percentage of people that are making a purchase or sticking around or sharing the game with their friends, then it makes the most sense to leave that out of your analysis. Finally, when looking at your analytics, make sure you're not getting consumed with the minutia. In a lot of cases, there will be a great degree of noise but not a whole lot of signal, particularly statistically significant signal. Make sure that in the end, if you see a small day to day, or week to week fluctuations that you're only acting on it if it's actually something that is significant. One mistake that we see a lot, is that developers rely on one particular ad network, or a monetization method for all of their monetization. You don't want to put all of your eggs in one basket. Even if you have a great relationship with whoever the person is that sold you that particular method, make sure that there are fallbacks, just in case there's a problem. Finally, don't use emotion or don't rely on an emotion in order to make your decisions. Do everything based on the numbers. There's great data somewhere out there that's going to determine exactly what's right for you, all you have to do is find it. Sometimes you implement a monetization strategy that looks great on paper, and after you give it a chance, you realize it's not making any money. There could be a lot of reasons. In these cases, you want to see what your users are doing while they're interacting with your sites or app. In the examples that follow, we'll use google analytics, and you can take the principles from our examples and use it in other tools if you want. We'll be investigating in four areas: user behavior, crashes and exceptions, out performance, and special events. What is a behavioral report? There are several types of behavioral reports. They show the performance of our content, the action visitors took. It visualizes the path users travel from one page to another or from one event to the next. In apps it will be from screen to screen. These reports can help you discover what potential content keeps user engaged. It also can help you identify potential issues. Okay, let's see how to use it. Here, we just click in the behavioral pane on Overview, and we'll get the first report. The Overview gives you a high level summary of what users interact with your site or app. For instance, here you can see the page views, the unique, time on page, bounce rate, and many more. If you want to see the full report, just go to the bottom and click, and you'll get all the detailed scenarios and data of what happened with your site. Another very useful report is the behavioral flow. If you clicked on it, you'll what are the paths that users took when they traveled your site? This report could help you identify potential problems or where are the pages that the users are most engaged with Performance and speed is something that user love. In order for us to see what our performance is, we need to look at the speed report. Speed reports show us how different request took in our app or site. You may want to track how quickly the screens for each new level of the game load, or how fast search result have been brought back to the user's page. You could also toggle between different version of this report, and I'll show you what to gain from the distribution, and the overlay reports. By the way, this report is important enough to be taken to the dashboard so you can face it on a daily basis. In my last startup, we also sent it on a weekly basis. So we could see if and how we improving after each new version. The main metrics that you gain from this reports is definitely to see what is the average load time of each and every page. And here you can see that I definitely had a problem with my site at the beginning of last May. When we clicking on the Distribution tab of this page, we could definitely see what is going on in different buckets, and that could help us a lot to identify problematic sections or buckets in our site. Another very important aspect of this report is to go to the Map Overlay. It's important because we want to see how different users around the globe are using and leveraging our site. What is the global distribution, let's say of the average user timing? We could see here that the darker shades indicates longer load time. This report can show if your app or site experience got any issues on particular geographic regions. It's especially important if you are using CDNs or stream content that depends on a geolocation of your users. Here for instance, you can see that I clearly got some problems in Chile. And luckily in the States and Canada, and over Europe, I'm quite in a good position. There are certain analytics that game developers should always be thinking about, and it always starts at the high level of lifetime value. Once you have a good idea of how you want to measure or calculate your lifetime value, then you can determine what other analytics in particular that you want to be looking at. For instance, usually everybody starts with retention, so that's the number of people who are coming back or the percentage of people who are coming back on specific days. Day 1, day 14, day 28. On the monetization side, it really depends on the type of monetization method that you're using. So, if you're using primarily in-app purchases, then you want to look at the average revenue per purchase. The average purchase size. If you're looking at things such as monetizing through ads, then you want to look at ad specific monetization metrics. So things like the effective cost per thousand. The ECPM, the fill rate. As well as, frequencies that you're showing ads, things like that. All of this is generally distilled into the ARPU, the average revenue per user. Or the RPPU which is the average revenue per paying user. And along the way you can make up whatever acronyms make the most sense for your game. Ito just went through a lot of information in those last few videos. So before we finish this lesson, let's take a minute and reflect on what you've just heard. What is the most important report that you'll use to monitor the success of your monetization strategy. Do you think that you'll set up your own custom dashboard? What might it include? Use this box to record your response. As a startup, and learning all this great data within Google Analytics, I think the best advice I would say is stick with it. It's a lot of information, and I think a lot of people think it's a little daunting because they don't know where to get started. What's really great is that we have a lot of amazing tutorials online. There's actually a video overview that kind of walks them through the different steps. Talks about someone who's a bit more, you know, has implemented and maybe used it a little bit more further than like a brand new start up can give them all the tips and tricks to be successful. So I think the best advice is to keep at it and don't give up. And make sure that you can get help along the way. At this point you should know what monetization method you want to use, and how you'll implement it. You might also have a plan B in the back of your head, in case that first one doesn't work out. And you should also have a plan for tracking and measuring the success of your model. Keep in mind, you can apply the user segment to creating the previous unit to any of these reports. This will help you get insights per group, which is much more accurate. As Yogi Berra said, you can observe a lot just by watching. In our world, keep watching your users. In the next lesson, you'll learn how to iterate on your monetization model, changing your approach when you're not making the amount of money that you need to. This wonderful app developer out of the United Arab Emerits, the company is called Megabit. And he creates games, basically. But he started out making his first game, in his first year, he made like $2,000. And he is living at home with his parents. And his parents are like why are you doing this as a business? This is crazy. I can't believe you're spending all your time building these apps, right? You should go back to school, become an engineer. You know, maybe, become a doctor. You know, whatever it may be. And he was like no, no, no. I really love doing this. So he started doing it more. And then the second year, he made probably like $14,000 and he was like well, at least, I'm going up, right? And kept building, and kept moving, chugging along. And a year later, he made close to $250,000. And his parents were like, stay in it. Do everything you can to stay. [LAUGH] Now his brother's helping him out. And he is looking to hopefully, create close to $1 million this year. So it just shows you monetization, even though you start very small. There's no guidebook to what's successful. Really understanding your users, and then trying to build off of that. So you can grow your business. Hi all. Today we are going to talk about a subject that usually does not get the attention it deserves. Money! Why? Because if you wish your startup to last, it must be profitable. There is no other way. And, you should think of your business funds as air, as long as you have enough of it you don't have to think about it at all. But the minute you run out of it, it's game over. I'm Ido Green and in the past 20 years I've started six companies. Two companies were acquired, one became profitable, and three flew into a wall just like Buzz Lightyear. Currently I'm having fun at Google as a developer advocate helping startups and developers get the most out of monetization. And I'm Jess, a program manager and course developer here at Udacity. My role in this course is to ask questions. Questions of Ido on how we monetize. And questions of you, to help you start thinking about how you'll apply what you learn here in your own product. In this course, you'll learn basic monetization principles for a variety of product types, how to implement these strategies, and how to track their effectiveness. Let's take a little look at how we'll do this. This course consists of four lessons. Here, in lesson one, we'll go over the basic of monetization strategies. And why it's important for you to think about monetization from the very start. In lesson two, we'll go into detail on monetization models available for different types of products. Feel free to jump around to the content that is most relevant to your needs. Then, in lesson three, you'll develop a monetization plan for the model that you've chosen. And finally, in lesson four, we'll cover best practices for measuring the performance of your monetization strategy. We'll also talk about when is the right moment to change your strategy and optimize it. Our goal in this course is to help you plan your monetization strategy in order to have a sustainable business. Sustainable business is all about making money. Let's start by talking about profitability There's a difference between a business making a lot of money, and actually being profitable. Right? Absolutely. We want our start-up to generate earnings that eclipse its expenses. If our business generate 1 million a month in revenue, but need to pay in expenses one and a half, we are in a problem. However, if in the same scenario, our expenses are only half a million, then we are generating real profits. So, how do we make our start-up profitable? It's very easy. You should follow these three simple steps. First, build a wonderful, amazing product, so good your user can't ignore it. Second, charge money for it. Third, boom profits! Oh yes, that sounds so easy. Let's just end the course right here. I mean, but just because somebody puts a price tag on a product doesn't mean that someone's going to pay it. That's right. As Warren Buffett used to say, price is what you pay, value is what you get. This is why you should focus on creating real value for your customers. People will be willing to pay if they see and recognize the value in it. You got a bigger chance of building a profitable business that is making 2 million a year, rather than trying to create the next multi-billion dollar business. If you think on your start-up from this angle, you got a higher probability to make it happen. As an aspiring entrepreneur, there are number of terms that you'll need to be intimately familiar with. Throughout the course, we'll help you talk the talk of a business owner in these short Terms to Know segments. We'll start with the basics, profit versus revenue. Now, we've already spoken a bit about the differences between the two. Revenue is the total amount of money your company collects. Now, profits are the most important number for you to focus on as an entrepreneur. After all, it's the only way for your business to survive. If you're a business that maybe makes a lot of money, but maybe your expenses and operating costs are eclipsing that, you can still go under. Now, there are even further distinctions between types of profit, gross and net. These terms are some of the most easily confused for those new to the world of finance. But see if you can identify the definitions for each of these terms just by entering the correct letter in the boxes provided, Now, gross profit amounts to your total revenue minus your cost of goods sold. So that's answer B. Cost of goods sold may also be a new term for you and this refers to the costs associated with making your product. For example, say your business is selling water bottles, and this is a water bottle, I promise. Now, you sell these water bottles for $19.99. But it costs you $5.60 to make them. Your cost of goods sold is then this $5.60 and when you subtract that from your total revenue per water bottle, you get a remainder of $14.39. Also known as your gross profit per water bottle. Net profit is then your total revenue after subtracting all of your expenses as an operating business. Now, keep in mind that this can easily be a net loss. And your goal is to implement a monetization model that keeps your numbers positive. I mentioned in the last video that gross versus net are two of the most easily confused terms for those new to finance. So, just to drill this difference into your brain a bit more, I've got another quick quiz for you. Now, another way to think of profits is in terms of margins or the percentage of funds that your business retains, or loses, depending on your situation. So just like before, take a look at these definitions and using the letters, match with the correct terms in the provided boxes. So let's start with Net Margins this time. Its the percentage of revenue retained minus all expenses. So the correct answer is B here. You calculate Net Margin as follows. Take the total Net Profit, divide it by your total revenue and multiply by 100. Gross margin is calculated as follows. Take your gross profit, divide it by your total revenue, and multiply by 100. Now both metrics give us an indication on our quality of performance. Many companies tell you that we have a 40% gross margin on our products. So it can change from sector to sector, but you can always measure yourself against other similar companies. And see how well or not well you're doing in relation to them. As an app developer, you don't think of monetization at the end of when you build the app. You should really be thinking monetization when you first are thinking about building your app. I met this amazing app developer in the Bay Area who built a game. And he came to talk to us recently, and he said, you know, I have to start all over again. We were kind of scratching our heads. We said, why? He said, I never thought about building the breaks inside the game for where an ad would actually sit. He's like I have to kind of start over and think about okay. You know, where, maybe in this level, I'll put one here. And maybe, during where it shows the scores and all that. So, he had to actually go back and redo his game which was unfortunate. But, it just shows you that, when you are thinking about monetization, or even just building your app in the first place, think about the future. Don't think about right then and there. Think about what you really want to get out of your app in the long term. I think any founder who ultimately plans to sell something to somebody should be thinking about their modernization strategy from day one. The reason is not, because the early revenue, I think makes a meaningful difference for your business from a cash flow perspective. But because acquiring revenue is the ultimate form of customer validation. It's pretty easy as an entrepreneur to go out and find somebody to tell you that you have a cool idea. The difficult part is getting them to open their wallet. So from that perspective, I see it as a really, really great tool in understanding your customer and understanding that you've found something that people want. We've heard a bit about customers in the last few segments. Not surprisingly, customers will play a huge role in the success or failure of your business. Are they giving you money or aren't they? There are a few metrics you should keep in mind in terms of customers, loyalty, retention, and acquisition costs. Customer loyalty measures the performance of your customers, how often they purchase, how often they visit a site, basically have they made your product a habit. Customer retention then measures the number of users retained in a given time period. And this is particularly important for subscription-based models, which we'll learn more about later. You can calculate customer retention by taking the total number of customers at the end of the given period and subtracting the total number of new customers that you got during that period. And you divide that all by the customers that you had at the start of the period. Multiply that by 100 and you'll get a percentage. Customer acquisition cost, as the name implies, is how much you spend to acquire new users. You can calculate customer acquisition cost by taking the total acquisition expenses and dividing by the total number of new users in a given period. Now, what constitutes good for each of these metrics is really up to you. Obviously, a 100% customer retention percentage would be ideal, but it's also not very likely. You'll be referring to these metrics a lot later on, once you've implemented a monetization method and are looking to iterate on it. So take a moment to think about what success might look like for your product. You'll be referring to these metrics a lot later on, once you've implemented a monetization number and are looking to iterate on it. So take a moment to think about what success might look like for your product, what metrics might you use to measure customer loyalty, what percentage of customers do you reasonably hope to retain. Use this box to record your response. Now I can almost hear you at home thinking okay dudes. I got it. Now what? One of the first things you should do is to think on your business model. What is your profit model, and how are you going to execute against it? A few important questions that could guide you in the right path. Would you or someone you know that represents the target audience pay this amount for that service? Why? Are there any great alternatives out there that are free? What is your expected burn-rate? How would you control it? What is the gross margin? What are the net margins? How many sales do you need to make in order to break even? What is the worst case scenario for your business? How would you overcome it? Lots of question, no? Well, it's just a tool to put us in the right path. Even if some of these questions are not applicable to you right now, it's a good idea to address them when you are ready. The next step is to establish the key performance indicators, or KPIs, for your business. This is an important step for you to monitor and understand how your company's monetization plan is performing. In successful companies like it does it in Google, we love data in numbers. The main reason is that with regard to monetization, numbers give a clear picture on where you're standing. Numbers will tell a real, true story, no excuses or emotion here. All you need to do is listen and act. If the numbers show that you are not going up and to the right, but rather decline, you need to take action fast. However, you can only do it if you have meaningful KPIs that you are constantly measure. We are not saying that all month will be positive in terms of monetization. In fact for every startup there are many weeks where you encounter major problems. What distinguish successful entrepreneurs, is the way they deal with those issues and problems. So, how can you increase your odds of building a sustainable business? It's a fact that both luck and timing play a role, but you can improve your odds with good planning, and the agility to maneuver when things change. Let's talk a bit more about Setting Good KPIs. A Key Performance Indicator or KPI is a measurable value that demonstrates how effectively a company is achieving their key business objectives. Organizations use KPIs to evaluate their success at reaching targets. As opposed to metrics, which simply demonstrate the current state of events of a company. How much money they're making, how many customers that they have. KPIs clearly indicate where actions for change should be taken. For example, you could set KPIs to measure increases in customer satisfaction. You could also look at app installations per whatever days, ten, 15, 30, 100. You can also look at the number of active users after 30 days. The important aspect when selecting KPIs is to ensure that they're tied to your own business objectives. It's a good idea to be agile here and to customize your KPIs as you progress with your startup. So take a minute and think about some of the KPIs that you might set for your product. And then, how might you evaluate whether or not the KPIs that you've selected are the right ones? Use this box to record your response. So, sometimes it feels like users are from Earth and monetization is from Mars. What do we know about users? We know that most of them favor free apps. In 2014, over 90% of the apps that were downloaded were free apps. Users wish to avoid paying upfront, but they don't mind paying in the right moment when they see the value in front of their eyes. This is the reason most apps are using in app payments. Okay. So users prefer free apps, but they don't mind paying once the app proves its value. So besides in app purchases, what other models do we have? We have many monetization options. In-app billing, you can sell digital goods and real goods to your users from the free app. In app payments, you let your user purchase item, level, points, special tools from your app. Ads, we got lots of options with different types like display advertising, in text links, videos, and many more. The important thing to note here is that you wish to blend the ad into your experience and not to interrupt it. Another opportunity is with affiliate. You could make money by referring to other services. Ahh, and there's lots of other models if you want to check if they are appropriate to your case. Email campaigns, selling data, auction, flash sales, merchandising, premium support and many more. That's a lot of models. I mean, how do you know that you're choosing the right one? It's a real challenge. We will provide more information that will help you get to those answers in the next lessons. One thing to take from this lesson is that your goal is to deliver direct monetization to the right user at the right time. Hi, my name's Kevin Hale, I'm one of the partners at Y-Combinator. I'm also a co-founder of Wufoo, which is an online form builder. I think when people are choosing between growth or monetization. They think that decision applies to every single kind of company. And I think for some companies it makes sense that you're going to pursue growth. And I think the way you're thinking about growth is in terms of people who decide to hold off on monetization until later. And usually that means that you have to build some other kind of asset, that allows you to sell. So, for example, social networks are the easiest one, right? The thing you ultimately the way you're going to monetize that is your audience or your user base and that information that you have from there. And the only way you're going to get that is if you have a large amount of information. And so you focus on growth in regards to getting people and getting people engaged and what have you. And then the monetization will happen because you finally have product market fit where advertisers say, this is enough information or data, this is enough audience that we're willing to pay for this. Most B2B companies or enterprise companies, you don't think like that. It's actually far more straightforward. It's a one-to-one relationship. I'm making something, I'm making a service. And on whatever parameters that you think your paid upgrade trigger is, whether it's convenience or it helps you make more money or it saves you on time or energy or people or cost savings. That one-to-one relationship is a lot more straightforward and you can say oh, that obviously it makes sense. It's this for that. Take a minute and think about your users. What might make them purchase your product? When in the flow of your app should you introduce that purchase? How does the answer to these questions affect how you think about your product? You can use this box to record your response. Developers, entrepreneurs, designers and all the rest, please come a little closer. Here's one of the secrets that we wanted to tell you. The key is to focus on the long time value of the users. This is the best way for sustainable, profitable businesses. If there's one thing you should take out from this lesson, this is it. So we're done. Almost. Let's go just a bit deeper here. You want to avoid a quick sell, Netflix, Basecamp, Zendesk, and many more are giving the user the opportunity to try before they buy. Moreover, they let users use their service on almost any device from any shape and form. This is another critical success factor, be everywhere. One look at the amount of devices that Netflix supports will reveal to you what we mean by saying be everywhere. I guess one question I think I always have to talk to people about is when does freemium sort of make sense? Or what is the advantage of going with freemium and how is it different from other typical models? And then why is it good for a subscription software company? The reason you approach freemium is because the idea is, one, you approach your free users as if they're lead generation. And that they're part of your marketing side of the equation, like these people are the ones who can get the word out on there. And the most important thing that you should be aware of is like. Is the market large enough that a small conversion of those people using the product is enough to make the company large? So for example, a local bakery can only serve people within a small area, their potential market size is a lot smaller. So you can't just give ton away for free because that conversion rate won't make that business sustain. But when you have an internet software company. The marginal cost of replication of offering services is very, very cheap and the potential size of the market is huge, because it's the whole world, everyone on the Internet and those forms are big enough, like all of the use cases for it. If you have a software that is very niche, and that the cost of each new user or free user is extremely high, you want to rethink maybe the mechanics of using freemium. Like, it's not a one size fits all for every company. We've just heard a lot about the freemium model, and how it's benefited a lot of businesses. But does this try before you buy, or freemium model, work for your business? Are there any adjustments you might try in order to improve your freemium model? Use this box to record your response. In a startup's life, there is no single day that will not bring a new challenge. So what are sort of the common challenges that students will face as they're on their path to monetization nirvana? There are three main ones: acquisition, retention, and earning. Acquisition, this is not an easy step. How can you put your product in front of enough users so some of them, 4% or less, will convert and pay for it? In many cases, you should focus and narrow this search. Less is more here. If you can focus on a niche segment in the market, you will get a better chance to reach the users who are willing to try your product. Second, exciting your audience. Surprise them with your quality. It's easy to say how to do. Nevertheless you want to do it. You wish to invest in their attention of your users. And a known way to do it is by creating wonderful experience. Users love quality and simplicity. Third, earning in commerce, make it easy for them to pay. In mobile eCommerce there's lots of forms with lots of fields. We go into more details on how to reduce the friction in that process a bit later. In app purchases, charge the right users with the right offer at the right time. There are many user segments and each deserve its own customize offering. For example, in a mobile gaming app, 5% of the users drove 95% of the revenue. So it was a smart move to improve the offering for these 5%. Ads, Do your best to use ads that enhance the user experience. In start ups there always seems to be a tension between two paths. Distribution, give it for free and capture a big chunk of the market, or earnings, also known as making money. Charge for your work but then you limit the distribution to only paying customers. However, if you think on your business plan in advance, there are many cases where you can do both from the beginning A great strategy will be to use the freemium model. You allow your users to use the service for free and then convert the power users to a paying customers. Take for example a company that does it very well, Wufoo. The free version lets you try the product and see the value in it. They show you the benefits right there on the first step of the registration. They focus on the most important benefits. If you need to become a heavy user, in their case more than 100 reply per month, they ask for payment. But at this point, you as the user understand the work they did for you, and it's valuable and worth the price. Okay, so you get to the end of the first lesson. Here are the main takeaways. First, build a wonderful, amazing product that creates value, charge money. Try to charge the user who use it most. Also, think about profitability from the very beginning. Have a strategy to identify the challenges, and manage them. Then stay agile for new challenges. We can promise you, they'll come in waves and will surprise you. At this point, you should have few thoughts about ways to monetize your product. But wait! We'll go into detail on the monetization models available for different types of products in the next lesson. Please join us when you're ready. In the last lesson, you heard about different types of monetization methods available to you, but we kept things at a pretty high level. So now in this lesson we'll dive into the nitty gritty of what you'll need to know to monetize your app. By the end, you'll be able to develop an implementation plan for your model, relevant to your product. You're encouraged to jump around in this lesson. I mean, after all, not all of these methods are applicable to your product. We'll provide more information later on, on where to jump, if you know what method you want to use. We talked a bit about different monetization models in the last lesson, but let's refresh your memory with the highlights of some of the most popular models. First, there are ads, serving advertisements provide a way to make money while you are giving your content or app for free. Ads are very popular on the Web, but they aren't the only model. Let's see another common way to make money. There's also the one-time charge model. Now in this model, it's similar to what you would experience in the real world if you went to a brick and mortar store. You go to a shop, pay a certain amount to the shopkeep, and you walk away with a t-shirt, let's say. Now in apps you can do this in two different ways. First you can charge a fixed price. So the user pays a price, and they can download the app. Or you can charge a price after a trial period. Now in both cases there are two things that you want to pay attention to. One, make sure that payment is quick and easy, and it doesn't require the user to log in. Second, use an established payment model, Stripe, PayPal, GooglePay, ApplePay, what have you. This will make sure that your users have a convenient and consistent checkout flow. The subscription model is another option there are many cases where we wish to sell our service on a monthly or yearly basis. The big advantage that made this model so popular is the fact that you get to earn more due to the increase in the lifetime value of your users. And they feel more comfortable because in that pay-as-you-go model they got full control on their expenses. Lastly, there are in-app payments, and this is a very popular model these days, as it combines two main user preferences. Free apps as the starting point, and then a way to monetize on that user after they've decided that your products worth it. Before students choose a monetization model, it's a good idea to research how competing products monetize. Where would you start this research? Try to search for similar products in the stores. The play store or app store of Apple. If you are on the web, try web search and see what the competitors are doing. Try to analyze, what are the numbers that will make their businesses cash flow positive and profitable? Take a second and scope out your competition. What monetization methods do they implement most often? In your searching, have you also found any hidden competitors? And, by hidden, we mean companies that might be fighting on the same budget as you, but offering a different service. This might require you to get a little bit creative in your search terms. Maybe getting very specific or drilling down to page two or three of the results. But seeing what people in the same monetary class are doing to monetize, is a great way to get ideas for your own product. When researching your competitors, take a moment and jot down the pros and cons to their approaches to monetization. You can do this using the provided boxes. When monetizing an e-commerce site, there are four main principles you should keep in mind. First, let users explore before they commit. Second, let users purchase as guest. Third, make it easy to finish from another device. Four, use existing information to maximize the convenience. Now lets go deeper on each rule. Requiring a log in or account creation too early in a site experience can be harmful to conversions. Beware of making enemies at registration gates. Don't require customer account registration up front. We understand that getting access to the customer information and preferences can be integral to your website success. But don't ask for it too early in the process. You can see here on the left side, an example of a pop-up that could block the users from achieving her goals. However, here on the right side, you could be productive and browse the site right away. Offer the option to check out as a guest and encourage registration with tangible benefits. If purchasing is something that people can do on your website, then you want to aim for the option to clearly enable users to check out as guests. The guest option is universally preferred when users didn't have an existing account. At the end of the guest checkout process, you have another opportunity to get users to create an account. And you can communicate tangible benefits to them for doing so, for example, so that they could track their order. Also remember that you don't want to negate the benefits of free users' purchase by having a process that isn't smooth here. All browsers including the ability to auto complete forms, so make sure you are using them. Offer an easy way to save or share information across devices, providing functionality to allow users to pick up where they left off. Seek opportunities to scaffold users behavior and facilitate cross-channel conversion through your mobile website. Your users move from one device to another, or simply want to go back to where they were on the same device. This functionality could help them a lot. As you could see here, they could email it or share it on social networks. Please take advantage of information you already have or use third party payment service to make conversion as easy as possible. Another useful way to streamline the conversion's experience for users is to know and use what already exists in terms of information that the user has provided. We also find that autofilling, when possible, was a huge benefit to users. To learn more about it, just click on this link. I'm Kadir Annamalai and I'm a Product Manager here on Teespring. And specifically, I work on the purchase flow experience like on our product. So, as we thought about creating the purchasing flow, what we wanted to do was we wanted to create an experience that was familiar. But, what really made it super optimized is for if you had a product out there to make people purchase it. And for us, it is really important.to make it like a clean purchase experience. And so, as we thought about how we wanted to make our purchase flow uniquely Teespring, one of the things which we did realize was that Teespring content is very much targeted. Or is very much optimize for people wanting to show it to their friends and share it like on all the different platforms out there. And so one of our thoughts was how can we make this an experience where kind of people are actually purchasing from the page but at the same time encourage them to share it via email, Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest and all these other channels. And so that was kind of the only other kind of special optimization layer, I'd say, that we did on the purchase flow. But otherwise, the purchase flow kind of is a very [INAUDIBLE] understood thing across most e-commerce companies. So as we were building out our purchase flow. One of the things which we became attuned to is the importance of making sure people feel comfortable. Putting their payment information into the purchase experience. And so one of the things which we did learn is that it's important to offer multiple different options. Because different buyers have different levels of appreciation of the security as you're going through the purchase flow. And so for us that meant being able to offer both a credit card option or offering like a PayPal option. And so, I think traditionally it's kind of understood to try to make your purchase experience as simple as possible. Like remove all the different options. But, particularly as you think about payments, creating options which give the sense of security. Was pretty important as we built out this experience. As entrepreneurs are trying to build our their e-commerce business, it's really important to understand the impact mobile devices had on commerce in general. For a long time, it was thought that purchasing on a mobile phone can't happen. You have to type in all this extra information. But more and more it's becoming really obvious that that's where people are spending all of their time. So in the same way people were shopping online on their PC's a long time ago, now a lot of that commerce happens on the phone. So, it's really important to really think about how do you optimize your experience, and your purchase experience specifically, for the mobile device. And so things like thinking about how can you auto fill information based off of what's already in your phone built in there? And thinking about, as you're actually have different interactions with your website. Think about how much space do I actually have on this screen to actually fit in all the different buttons. Like if you want to offer reviews, like the ability to choose color, ability to choose size. Like ability to sort of switch between a lot of different images of the same product. One of the things that you realize is that you have to make trade offs. And the only way you can really understand how to make those trade-offs is through testing. And really figuring out, if I have this button here, which takes up the full screen, or opposed to having two different buttons on that screen. How does that impact the conversion rate? Because of the focus more and more on the mobile device. Testing becomes more and more important because you don't have all that much real estate to actually work with. When building a successful e-commerce business, the first thing that you have to realize is that the best customer is a customer who keeps coming back. And so as we look at Teespring, the people who do really well on our platform are people who've been able to build a brand with our buyers on Teespring. And been able to bring them back over and over and over again to be able to purchase more and more products. And the best thing, what you can do to actually ensure that is really invest in customer service. And really invest in sort of answering any questions that your customers have. And kind of really making your customers feel that you as the kind of e-commerce platform, or as a product owner, actually care about what they want. And so it's really easy to kind of think about, all right, let's optimize the purchase flow, let's kind of cut costs where we can, let's offer the cheapest price. But at the end of the day, what's going to bring that buyer back again is the customer service and the actual end to end experience that you offer them. So subscription models, why do they rock? And is there anything that people should look out for? Absolutely. They rock, because they offer win-win situation. The lifetime value of the user is much lower in one time charge. With subscriptions, we let users test before they buy and their trust enable us to increase the lifetime value. As an entrepreneur, you're facing two options. Make, create your own service or buy a third party service that offers the ability to manage your subscription models. Stripe, Braintree, PayPal and others are offering it for you. We recommend to go with the second option, because the first one will create a lot of work that won't make your product better. It's a classic reinventing the wheel scenario you wish to avoid. When I'm mentoring young entrepreneurs, I ask them about money and their business model. When I get an answer like, we'll throw some ads here and there, it makes me real sad. It's the wrong answer. You must have a solid business model in place that will put your company on the profitable track. So, even if ads are the answer to your monetization model, you need to put a little bit more thought into it. So, let's define what an ad is first. Basically, it's any public announcement of something that someone wants to sell. On the web we have ads in the form of text, image, video or interactive media. The power of these ads is coming from the fact that they are targeted to site content and our audience. You make ad spaces, also known as ad inventory, available on your site. Advertisers bid to show their ads on your site and the highest bid wins. Then you get paid when users click on the ads. This model works when you have lucrative traffic, meaning you focus on verticals that advertisers are interested in. For example, a finance or an automotive site with a lot of users will earn higher CPMs than a site that focus on fish or white elephants. We just threw a lot of terms at you in that last video, so let's take a closer look at common metrics and acronyms used when it comes to advertising. There are five we'll be exploring, CPC, CPM, eCPM, CPI and CTR. Knowing the definitions for each of these terms is extremely important, especially as you're evaluating the success of using ads in your product. Let's start with CPC or cost per click. Now, this is essentially how much an advertiser pays you if a visitor to your site or a user of your product clicks on their ad. The acronym CPM is a little tricky. This stands for cost per thousand and the M actually is the Roman numeral for a thousand. CPM is how much you earn for every 1000 views of an add. This can also be referred to as CPI or cost per impression, another item from our list. eCPM is then the estimated cost per thousand views and is calculated by dividing your total revenue by the total number of views of the ad in thousands. eCPM is helpful when you're evaluating the performance of different ads on your site, and you want to estimate how much you'll make as the views increase. Lastly, we come to click-through rate or CTR, this metric measures how many users have actually clicked on an ad. It's calculated by dividing the total number of clicks by the total number of impressions or views, and multiplying that number by 100 to get a percentage. So now that we've gone through each of these definitions, let's test your memory and see if you can remember these three-letter acronyms. Fill in the full names for each of these acronyms using the provided boxes. CPC stands for cost per click and this is how much an advertiser pays you if a user or visitor clicks on their ad. CPM was the tricky one and that stands for cost per thousand. And that's how much you earn for every thousand views of an ad. eCPM is then the estimated cost per thousand views of an ad. CPI is the cost per impression and its definition is the same as CPM, the cost per thousand views of an ad. CTR stands for click-through rate, and this metric measures how many users have actually clicked on an ad. Don't worry if you didn't get all of these in one go. Acronyms are inherently tricky. The important part now is just to familiarize yourself with the lingo and you can rely on Google for any definitions that you forget. Here are a few examples where ads are used fairly effectively. You could see here a banner ad. Banner ad are images based advertisements that often appear in the side, top, or bottom section of a website. They use PCC, paper click model, In which advertisers pay a fee each time a user clicks on this ad. You can see here on the verge, that Spotify is actually taking quite a lot of real estate over the top. If we scroll down, we can see another ad over here. And in most cases, if we continue scrolling, down to the bottom we can see another ad just over here. Another example would be the Huffington Post, and you can see here another ad. And another example in Yahoo Finance would be actually two ads one for their mobile app and the other very prominently on the right side. Now that you've heard a bit more about the different monetization methods available to you on the web, what options are you considering for your product? Why are you considering them? How would you implement it? Use this box to record your response. Now, we're moving into the world of native apps. And this is a world that's flourishing. You might notice some similarities between what we spoke about for the web, but there are also some specific monetization methods for native apps. At first, you need to think, what would be the best model for your app? It's likely to change, but that's fine. You need to be agile and listen to your customers. Let's look at some of the most popular options. First, you can monetize premium apps. That's selling your app for a fixed price. In a lot of cases, this might not provide you with enough revenue, so you can also optionally include ads or use in-app billing to sell additional features or content. Now this model works great for certain categories, like games for kids. In this example, parents can pay a full price up front, and a model with like ads or in-app purchases may not work as well since the kid would have to make those purchases. However, this model may also limit your app's monetization potential in developing markets. You may be able to achieve greater revenue using the freemium subscription or advertising model. And monetizing freemium apps. Users are more likely to download a free app. Later, you could use several options to monetize. First, use in app payments to unlock more features. For example, games like Angry Birds, Clash of Clans and many others, and productivity apps, Evernote, Springnote, all are using this to provide a free tier. Second, subscriptions for recurring services. It might be used progressively or expire after a period of time, such as a game booster or a news subscription. Many examples like Pandora, Financial Times, Strava, Dropbox and many more are using it. Another option is just to leave the app free, and use it as a marketing or as an enhancement to another product. E-commerce is another monetization option In this model, you can sell physical goods, like tomatoes, clothing, electronics, what have you. And you can also sell other services. Think about Etsy and Amazon as good examples of e-commerce. The question is, which model gets the best results for your app? Most app services are made to help you figure out what combination works best both for your audience and your bottom line. You should remember that you will need a lot of traffic in order to make this model work for you. You may not heard of this mention many acronyms for Native Apps monetization but they do exist. Let's take a look at a few of them. First, we talked about in-app purchases a bit. You may see this abbreviated as IAP. Important metrics to measure, especially with IAP are ARPU and ARPPU. ARPU, or average revenue per user, is calculated by dividing your total revenue by your total number of users. ARPPU, or average revenue per paying user, is calculated by dividing the total revenue by the total number of users that made a purchase. The advertising terms we discussed back in the website monetization section also apply here. So if you wanted to implement ads in you native app, we recommend you go back and check out that content. Now it's once again time to test your memory skills with another acronym challenge. See if you can recall the definitions for each of these terms that we just discussed. Enter their meanings in the boxes provided. ARPU is the average revenue per user. And remember that's calculated by dividing your total revenue by your total number of users. IAP stands for in-app purchase. And that's anytime a user makes a purchase inside of your app. ARPPU is then the average revenue per paying user. And that's calculated by taking your total revenue, and dividing it by the total number of users who have made a purchase. So, when you're walking into a brick and mortar store in the real world. It's pretty obvious that you're going to put down some money and you're going to buy something. Is that similar for apps? Yes and no. If you wish to charge user before they download your app, you can do it in a simple way. First, create a Merchant Account. Second, set the prices for your app in the Developer Console. Third, you can optionally include advertising or use In-app billing to sell additional features or content. Web links to all the three stages in the instructor notes down below. It's important to remember who are you targeting? Since this model may limit your app monetization potential. Particularly in developing market. You may be able to achieve greater revenue by using the freemium or subscription models. Let's take a look at more examples of using the model. Remember that users are more likely to download a free app compared to a priced one. There are numbers of ways to monetize free apps by using in app billing. Yeah, there's actually two avenues that you can take. There are objects that users can purchase once, and they're always able to access. So, example, something like levels, Telltale games, Angry Birds, all allow users to unlock new levels by paying for it. There's also objects that users will always need to keep purchasing, coins, extra lives, boosters, gems, whatever. Clash of Clans is an example of this. In this model, the goal is to gain trust. We want to lower the entry barrier and allow users to try us and fall in love. After that, we can offer users who are using the product to pay for it, and they will be willing to do it with a big smile if we are doing everything correctly, because users will recognize the value that we created for them. In a subscription model the customer pays your required price to have access to the product. Subscription provides an excellent opportunity to create continued revenue streams which is wonderful because the lifetime value of our users will be higher. And when users purchase subscriptions in your Android Apps, Google Play handles all the check-out details for you. If you have an iOS App, the Apple store also does the same. In other words, you don't have to directly process any financial transactions. This insures a consistent and familiar purchase flow and improves user experience. It also causes you a lot less headache. Some tips for using this model. It is recommended to use a free trial subscription to allow users to explore the app first and see the value. You could set a time limit or any other limit that fit your scenario. For example, Dropbox will limit the space you could use on their free tier. Due to some direct carrier billing limits, we also recommend monthly subscription. Annual subscription may exceed limits, causing the purchase to be blocked. Now let's take a deeper look at some e commerce options for native apps. There's a lot of ways that you can sell physical goods in an app. Like clothing, bikes or even movie tickets. In any platform, you wish to allow the users to make a purchase process as smooth as possible. In other words you should minimize data entry and enable payment flow with only one or two clicks. Both Android and Apple have a built in ways for you to do. Both systems will keep your existing payment infrastructure. So when it comes to putting ads in a native app, there's actually a lot of different things we have to consider. Especially because the screen size on a phone or a tablet is a lot smaller than it might be on a desktop application. So what do we have to keep in mind? There are several things. Every app offer a different type of experience to its users. So it's important that your ad format match that experience. While a banner ad may work well for a flashlight app, a gaming app could benefit much more from a full video app. In other words, you need to take into consideration the placement within your app and the different ad formats. You could try the two leading platforms. Adsense or double-click. However, there are other platforms out there for you to check out. And we've linked them in the instructor notes below. Hi, I'm Nate. I'm an Evangelist for Chartboost. Chartboost is the world's largest games only advertising and monetization network. I help developers take their existing players and monetize them, as well as find new players. There are various types of ad formats that game and app developers can put into their apps. The first and most familiar to people are banners. And probably the newest that you'll see used are video ads. There's different reasons you might want to choose each. Of course, it depends on the type of app, but there are also some other factors. What's the location of most of your users? Do you have an in game economy if you're trying to offer rewarded, videos for instance? You have to take those into accounts. Understanding the payouts is a really important part of understanding your game monetization strategy. So ads pay according to how the advertiser bids. These completely range. Understanding all of these is important because they're going to determine when you're looking at your analytics. Why you are or are not getting paid? And then you can optimize the ads, so that it's a greater likelihood somebody's going to engage with them. If it's a cost for per completed view and your doing a rewarded video ad then maybe you want to show your video ads right at the point where somebody needs whatever say your offering them extra life in your game. Well you want to show that video ad right where somebody needs it. So that they're more likely to complete the view, so you're more likely to get paid. If you're say, monetizing from cost per install ads then you probably don't want to bombard your users with interstitials pop up ads because they're going to see them, accidentally click on them and then never install. The ad networks themselves are going to be optimizing based on the performance of the ads within your app or game. So if they see something that looks odd or has a really low conversion rate, you're less likely to get ads served or even high quality ads served to your app or game. So it's really important to keep an eye on those analytics and then work with whoever the providers are, to make sure that you're delivering the right results. Mainly when choosing an ad partner, it's important to choose ones that offer features that you're looking for. These features might be cross promotion. So if you want to have the ad network do double duty for you so that you can also do things like promote in game items or perhaps promote your next title. It's important to choose an ad network that can satisfy those objectives. Another feature that some ad networks have that people like to choose from are things like transparency. Can I see all of the ads that have been shown if I have a kid's game, for instance? I want to make sure that the ads that my players are seeing are age appropriate. If I have a really sophisticated back end that I'm working with, I might want to choose an ad network that has APIs that I can work with. Perhaps I want to choose an ad network that functions well with other elements within my game. For instance, If I'm using something like Unity to build my game, a development platform then I want to choose ad networks that have plugins. If I'm using a mediator, I want to choose ad networks that I can then plug into that mediator and that all work nicely together. So there are a number of other monetization methods out there and I brought a list of them, just because there's a huge number and I want to make sure that I'm not leaving important ones out. I left this to the end because the performance is really going to vary app to app, where some of the other monetization methods that we went over are a little bit more common. Firstly, there are surveys. This is where you're offering players in game rewards. Generally for branded surveys, what's your favorite soft drink, things like that. There are also real world rewards. So this is the most popular case for this would be if somebody maybe gets level four in whatever your game is and they get a reward for free Kleenexes or something like that that they can them redeem at a real world location or order to their house. There's also Affiliate or Ecommerce. So I've seen with a lot of cases, particularly games and apps that are extremely well designed or arted, that sometimes they'll sell prints of popular characters or other elements directly to players. In some cases they'll direct them to other App Stores and thinks like that, that they can purchase this. And in a lot of cases you can get affiliate revenue which is a percentage of the users purchase. Even if they're not purchasing whatever you're directing them to, which is key. So if you send them to the App Store and within 24 hours they make a purchase of another game, you'll get a very small percentage of that. If you have a wide enough audience base, this adds up which is really cool. There are also things like notification ads, little pop-up notifications, text ads. There are things such as offer walls that were for I guess, like the beginning of the App Store, extremely popular. And that's where you're offering players the ability again, to get in game rewards, if they either download and install other games or if they complete offers for subscriptions to magazines or Netflix or something like that which is extremely popular. Finally, there are app walls which is like a hybrid of offer wall and banner ad unit, where you display a list of different games or apps. Perhaps some of them you own, some of them you don't own, and players can pick and choose what they want to download. There's a whole range here and it really depends on what converts best within your game. The apps and games that are at the top of the grossing charts, on any of the different platforms stores are generally using IAP's in order to drive that revenue. It's where the bulk of it's coming from. And there's a couple of key things that they keep in mind when the app developers are determining which IAP's they should offer and how to price them. First and foremost, when choosing which items to offer as in-app purchases, you have to make sure that the items are content that enriches the game. I wouldn't rely on just having something that prevents ads from being shown or maybe just one or two variations in graphics or things like that. It has to really be something that stands out and takes somebody that may have never paid and turns them into a paying user. There are a few different forms of IAP's. This first are content, so if you want to offer new items, perhaps new maps, if it's a game, that falls under content. The second is functionality, so if there's a different way to use your app or game, perhaps a different mode. Perhaps you want to unlock different weapons that might dramatically change the game play experience. That would fall under functionality. There are also services. So if you're building an app or a game where there are services that you need to offer that aren't necessarily something that you can do really quickly within the game itself. Perhaps there's a superior level of support if you're offering an app that's a little bit more sophisticated, that's another type of IAP that you can offer. Finally, there's subscriptions. If you're doing an app that functions a bit more like a magazine or a game that requires a multiplayer subscription in order to play online. This is where subscriptions lie. They're probably the least popular, just because the use cases are a little bit more limited. But they're no less valuable than any of the other types of IAP's that you can offer. So IAP's can be consumable, use them once and that's it. They can be non-consumable, so something like an additional map pack that somebody should always have access to is a non-consumable. There are different types of subscriptions that you can offer, you can offer a free subscription, an auto-renewing subscription, a non-renewing subscription. And it really depends on what you think people are most likely to purchase. And all of this can be tested, so you don't have to determine right off the bat how this is going to go. When you're selecting IAP's, it's important to select a wide range of price points. Anything from the lowest up to the highest. Somebody will always buy whatever that highest point IAP is, and there's no reason to prevent yourself from getting that revenue. Even if it might seem a little absurd that somebody wants to spend $99 on a coin pack. There will be somebody who inevitably wants to spend $99 on a coin pack. It's important to offer that range, all the way from the lowest to the highest, and then a good mix in between. Amazon generally recommends at least 12 price points, I think that might be a little overkill, but somewhere in that neighborhood is probably right. Finally, for any of your IAP's, it's extremely important that the non-consumables can be restored. You get a lot of backlash from the platforms if you have all of these IAP's that people are purchasing, yet they can't get them back on their device. You also see a significant user backlash there which won't be good in the long run. Now that you've heard about the most popular means for monetizing a native app, which methods do you think might be best for your product? Why? How might you implement them? Use this box to record your response. If you take nothing else away from this lesson, just remember that there are five main monetization models available to you. Premium, freemium, which is currently extremely popular, subscriptions, e-commerce, and ads. Also remember, that no matter what model you choose, your goal is to charge the right users, at the right time with the right amount. So, now we've kind of got an overview of all of the methods available. How do our entrepreneurs choose one? We'll get into that in the next lesson. Come back and join us when you're ready. In the last lesson, you learned how to implement your monetization strategy. As well as some basic techniques for monitoring the success of your strategy. And in this lesson, you'll learn how to iterate on your model if you find that it's not performing in the manner that you expect it to. Now, this ability to quickly react to change is one of the advantages that you have over big companies. Remember, our goal here is to tailor the monetization solution per user. In this lesson, we will see what to do in order to improve our process and reach our goal. We want to solve a real problem. It's better if we could address a real pain point and not just nice to have feature. If you can create a real value for your users, they will be happy to pay for it. Harnessing habits leads to more revenue. It drives a higher customer lifetime value, and it gives us greater flexibility to increase prices. If you are able to create a customer habit, it will super charge your monetization plan. However, it's a challenge. First, make sure users form a habit, using your app at least once or twice a day is a good start. Second, identify the four aspects of your product. Triggers, actions, rewards and investments. In the following videos, we will see how to identify them. So these hooks, this four step process, starts with a trigger to an action, then a reward, and then an investment. So every hook starts with a trigger. A trigger prompts the habit, and we have these two types of triggers, an external trigger or an internal trigger. External triggers are things in our environment that tell us what to do next. They give us some piece of information, click here, buy now, a friend telling you about this great new app through word of mouth. All example of external triggers. These external triggers prompt us to action. That's the habit itself. Opening an app, scroll through Pinterest, search on Google, push the play button on YouTube. These are these actions that we do with little to no conscious thought, that are these very simple behaviors, these very small behaviors that we do seeking a reward. Which brings me to the third step of the hook, the reward phase is where the user's itch is scratched where they get what they came for, and yet there is a bit of mystery around what they might find next time they engage with the product. So it's not just a reward, it turns out that habit forming technologies integrate what's called a variable reward. So this comes from the classic work of BF Skinner, the father of operant conditioning. Skinner found that when he gave rewards to his pigeons in these little boxes, on a variable basis, so sometimes the pigeons would peck at the disk, they wouldn't receive a reward, the next time they would receive a reward. What Skinner observed was that the rate of response, the number of times these pigeons pecked at the disk increased when the reward was given on an intermittent new schedule of reinforcement. And so in all sorts of products that we find most habit forming, most engaging, we find this bit of mystery, this bit of variability. So searching and scrolling and scrolling on a news feed, or what makes sports fun to watch is the uncertainty of will our team win the game, or what makes for a great TV show or movie? Right, the uncertainty about how the happy ending is going to unwind. All of these are examples of variable rewards. And finally, the investment phase, the last step of the hook. The investment phase is where the user is prompted to put something into the product to invest in the product in anticipation of a future benefit. So the purpose of investments is to increase the likelihood of the next pass, that's what the investment phase is for, and it does this in two ways. The investments load the next trigger. So loading the next trigger, an example of that would be, when I send someone a message on WhatsApp, I don't get any immediate rewards, right? There's no leader boards, there's no badges, there's no points, nothing really happens. What I'm doing is I'm loading the next trigger because I'm likely to get a reply, and that reply comes coupled with an external trigger, hey here's a message from your friend, which prompts me to use the hook once again. The second way that investments increase the likelihood of the next pass is by storing value, and this is a big deal. Storing value is when the product gets better and better with use. It appreciates in value, and it does this by storing data, followers, reputation, content. [INAUDIBLE] Right, anything that I'm putting into the app that gets better and better over time. And so it's through successive cycles through these hooks, trigger, action, reward, investment, that now an association is built with that second type of trigger. Remember, I told you there was two types of triggers, external triggers and internal triggers. The internal trigger are these things in our life that prompt us to action like a place, a situation, a routine, a certain person, and most frequently emotions that prompt us to do this next action, this next habit, with little or no conscious thought, but without any explicit information. So over time, through successive cycles through these hooks, now we use the product, not with a message that tells us, hey, click here, but with a need, exactly. We internally trigger ourselves, we have these associations. So I'm lonely, I check Facebook. I'm uncertain, I Google. I'm bored and I'm on YouTube, or Reddit, or checking stock prices, or sports scores, right? We do these things instantaneously because of these successive cycles through these hooks. In these next videos we'll use the Hooked Model that near just explained as a means to optimize your monetization strategy. First let's look at Triggers. The point where users open your app. It's a good place to start because you can't make any money if people aren't using your product. Now in order to improve your trigger, think of the following questions. Who is your user? And if you have a few types of users, try to identify each of them. Then, what might these users be doing before they decide to interact with your product? Take a moment and jot these ideas down now. Next up, let's take a look at actions, or those behaviors that result in rewards and stem from the triggers that you sent users. Here, you'll want to optimize your model to eliminate your user's pain and get them to interact with your app, thereby increasing their potential to spend money. Ask yourself the following questions. Where is the most challenging action in your product? Why is it challenging? How can you test and improve this action? Here's a hint. Analytics play a huge role in finding answers that are based on data. Take a minute and jot down how you might use analytics to help identify and eliminate these roadblocks. Now rewards are what users get for performing actions. It could be likes on a post, or maybe some extra coins in a game for doing something. The most important question here is whether or not your reward leaves the user wanting more. So how are your rewards making users want more? Use this box to record your thoughts. And if the answer is they don't actually want more, you might want to rethink your rewards. Fun fact, I continued watching the show Lost long after the plot soured, only because I had invested so much time into the series. Now similarly, in the investment stage of the hook model, where you ask users to put a little bit of time or effort into your product. How do you ensure that users come back? Take a moment and jot down your thoughts on how your product makes sure users come back and what they might feel invested in. Let's imagine that your product looks amazing. Everything's working smoothly, the colors are awesome, but the revenue stream is low. What could be the problem? There could be a number of roadblocks that prevent users from spending money in your app. A roadblock could be a design issue that discourage users, for example, a complex registration form, or a user exceptions on particular devices. You can use the reports we've talked about in the previous lessons to help you identify the road block, and more effectively monetize your users. Let's take a look at a few examples that will help us investigate and find the reasons. As like any e-commerce company should do, we constantly optimize the conversion rates as we think about the purchase flow. In traditional e-commerce, when you have a visitor come to your page, and a visitor actually checking out, it's just a really big drop-off anywhere from 90% to 98% depending on the e-commerce site. This is because there's a lot of different barriers in that process as you're trying to understand what type of product do I want, what type of color, what type of size, now I have to put in all my address information and payment information. We constantly try to optimize that experience to make it as easy as possible and making it as few clicks and things people are typing in. An example of that was as we are thinking about, we have people coming into Teespring and they have already purchased from us before. What is a way we can make that process easier for them to actually be able to then import all their previous address information?. This was a feature which we hadn't ever built prior. As we looked at this, one of the things that we really wanted to optimize for was around speed and especially for people on their devices, like on their phones being able to type in a lot of fields is really painful. That's just one example of how we tried to optimize for this, is to say that if you're a buyer who's come to Teespring before, what are the different ways that we can actually import your previous information into the checkout experience? So users, we talked before about how important they are. So what can we be looking at to gauge their interest in our product? There are two reports that could help us. The Loyalty and Recency reports can show users interest in your app based on the frequency and recently that they used it. It's a great way to recognize the users that love your app, over the ones that just like it. As Paul Graham said you want 100 people to love your app over 1,000 that just like it. Once you've identified that users engage with your app infrequently or they've stopped using it entirely, how do you re-engage those audiences? You can appeal to those users with a variety of marketing strategies like push notification, email marketing, and re-marketing campaigns. But remember, it's important to find the golden path and not over do it. Iteration seems like a very specific process for most products. I mean, entrepreneurs, you need to analyze data and act accordingly to improve your specific monetization model. And it can vary a lot by product. But are there any instances where we can provide specific, actionable tips for a given product? Actually yes, companies in the game industry seems to follow a few proven paths for increasing revenue. First, promote certain items at the right situation for heavy gamers. The challenge here is to identify these players and to find the right situations. Second, offer an item with a big discount only to the potential paid users. The challenge is to segment these users and control the exposure of this discount. Third, use ads for non paying users. The challenge is to blend the ads and protect the experience so the users will still love the game. And for everyone else we've got some key takeaways for this lesson in the next video. The top three things I would recommend any game developer do, is to first get analytics and make sure you're measuring all the important things for your game. Then determine which mix of monetization methods is most appropriate. It will really vary accordingly, depending on the type of game that you have as well as a number of other factors. And finally, to use those analytics to optimize accordingly. We've talked about a lot in this lesson, but really there are three things that you should take away. First, listen to your users, for real, over the phone or by looking at the reports we just talked about. And move fast to correct and improve your models. Test new ideas and let the data talk. And do your best to solve a real need. Users will be happy to pay for something that create value. Congratulations! You've reached the end of this course. Before we say good bye, we want to leave you with some of the most important takeaways from this course. First ,think about profitability from the very beginning. Don't fly blind, use data and keep improving the way you collect and analyze it. Make sure you're charging the right users the right amount at the right time. So work hard, be nice, and make money. Your business valuation comes down to profitability and growth metrics. Go have both.