Welcome to the course. I'm Lauren, I'm a course developer here at Udacity, and I have a background in experimental psychology. And I'm Roni, I'm the program manager at Google. I run a global program called Launch Bed to help startups launch high quality apps. My background is in startup marketing, and I love mentoring startups on how to think marketing from day one. And this is what they're going to learn in this course. Marketing helps you understand your user, focus your product on your user needs, and take your product to market. But this isn't going to be a marketing 101 class. This is more of an applied marketing course. Yeah, we set up this course to mimic what you would go through when creating, launching it, iterating on your own marketing plan. The lessons in this course are divided into several stages. Like the understanding stage, the prepare stage, launch, iterate, and scale. So tell us more about that. We'll start by understanding the market we play in, or the users, how we're going to segment them, how we're going to position our product in one competition and what's our value position? Then, we'll prepare everything that is worth the launch. >From the marketing plan, all the way to the landing pages, and cover the launch itself, including PR and how to grow your user base, from one to 1,000. Then we'll learn how to scale, with paid advertising and free growth hacking tips. And finally, how to iterate and keep improving you product in marketing based on your measurements and analytics. But marketing's so much more than just advertising and social media. It's about truly understanding the market, how to best build your product and how to understand your customers and their needs and where you fit with the industry. In this first lesson we'll cover market segmentation, competition, and value proposition. By the end of this lesson, you'll have a better understanding of your users and where you fit in the market, based on things like your variable position and competitive analysis. So let's sign into the understanding part of marketing. Only few companies are big enough to supply the needs of an entire market. Even the large ones must break down the total demand into segments and choose those that the company's best equipped to handle. Market segmentation is marketing strategy that involves dividing a broad target market into subsets of consumers who have common needs, wants, demand, or characteristics. You'll be developing a marketing strategy that targets the individuals in your chosen segment. You can learn the basics of it in the book that become the bible for startups 25 years ago. And it's still valid. Crossing The Chasm, by Geoffrey Moore. Let's meet Geoffrey Moore himself to learn what he has to say about market segmentation. Hi, so my name's Geoffrey Moore. I live in Silicon Valley. I'm a business author, I'm a member of a venture capital firm, and I consult and advise technology companies, largely. Entrepreneurs tend to have visions of global domination, and in that model you want to segment the whole world. Because eventually the whole world is going to buy your product, it's just a question of who's going to buy it first. So, I think the whole world thing is a great fantasy and it keeps you going at night and on the weekends, but eventually if you're going to actually light the fire. You know when you light a fire, you don't want to run a match up and down under a very big log, you're just going to burn your fingers. What you want to do when you light a fire is you get some kindling and then you get some crumpled up paper, and you get the match. And you hold the match in one and only one place until it starts to burst into flame. Then the flame can grow. But so, the key thing with the segmentation at the beginning for an entrepreneur is, where are you going to hold the match and how long are you going to hold it in place until it lights? And sometimes you put it, holding in the wrong place. You're holding it under a brick and bricks do not burn, right? Okay. So, you've got to move the match but, what you don't want to do is just continually moving it back and forth. And entrepreneurs who are in love with their product have a very tough time with this problem. Entrepreneurs who are in love with their customer, do not have this problem. Okay, so how do we start this fire? Let's explore the different types of segmentation. Here are a few common types of market segmentation practices. Behavioral, psychographic, demographic, geographic, occasional, and cultural segmentation. Let's start by talking about behavioral and psychographic segmentation. Behavioral segmentation considers a few things, such as the knowledge of your product. Their attitude towards your product. How or how often they use your product or how they respond to your product. Their loyalty to your product. And you can also think about creating a segment based on what your customer will benefit from your product. Behavioral segmentation is a great place to start when you think about segmenting your market. Let's take an energy bar, for example. What's important to you? Do you look at the price? Do you look at the calories? Do you want something that has less calories or more calories? Do you look at the protein? Or maybe you don't care, and you're just hungry? Our messaging for each of these segments, so the people who are just hungry, the people who want more protein or less calories, or the people who care about the price. The message is going to be different. And it's going to be affected by the different benefits that these customers seek. We also need to think about the places, online or offline, where our customers may find each of these segments. So, say it's offline. We may consider to put a poster in a gym, marketing our energy bar. And online, we might want to add an add to a page that sells workout clothes. Now let's talk about psychographic segmentation. This segmentation is achieved by studying activities, interests, and the opinions of your customers. You're thinking about the lifestyle of your customer. How do they spend their downtime? What are they influenced by? What image are they trying to project? What are the needs and wants of people in this common lifestyle group? For example, usually people who buy a luxury car can not only afford it, thus defining their economic status, but it also shows a preference to spend money on more luxury lifestyle products. So we can extrapolate that they may travel to high class destinations, wear specific brands, or visit certain establishments. So, say we're trying to sell a luxury car, if we want to market to people who can afford it, we're going to consider doing that in other high-end places. Such as a luxury magazine found in the first class section of an airline, or sponsoring the valet outside of an expensive restaurant. Okay, now let's break up the Demographic and the Geographic segments. So the Demographic segmentation is, you guessed it, based on your customers Demographic characteristics, things like age, gender, occupation, education level, income level, and much more. If you're coming from a B2B or a business to business point of view, this could be the size of the company, the number of employees, or even the location of the company. Now for the Geographic segmentation, this is just segmented by geographic areas. such as the country, regions, different cities, postal codes. Now, you can do a geo-cluster approach, which combines Demographic and Geographic segmentations. You'll look at demographic information within a certain area To create a more specific profile. Do your graphic segmentation is really important for international marketing, it's usually your first step. So an example of a Geographic segmentation would be warm climates versus cold. Climates. Now you're probably better off marketing the coats you make to a cooler climate than you are to a warmer climate. Just as bathing suits might not sell as as well in Alaska as they would in Brazil or the Caribbean. Now, finally let's talk about the occasional and the cultural segmentation options. The occasional segmentation focuses on certain occasions that are completely independent of the customer. Now, you don't care about demographics. You just care about occasions such as going out for ice cream, taking a vacation, or as Coke famously did it, being thirsty. Coke's campaign doesn't care if you're a man, woman, living in Uruguay or Ukraine or if you have high socio-economic status or low. All they care about is are you thirsty, it's very simple. And finally there's cultural segmentation. With this you'll classify the markets according to cultural origin. Now this can be incredibly powerful given that understanding a culture can give you so much insight to certain groups of customers and their behaviors. Now when you use cultural segmentation, you'll be able to communicate well with a given culture in the most effective way. Cultures can be large, they can be nationwide. Or they can be small and reflect a particular region such as the Bay Area or even the startup culture. And so now we've talked about a few different types of segmentation. Behavioral psychographic, demographic, geographic, occasional and cultural segmentation. Let's explore how to best segment your market. When defining your market segment, you want to make sure you don't define segments that are too narrow. Ask yourself, is my offering really different from one segment to another? Could be different by price or by features. And if you realize that you offer the same to two different segments, maybe you should define them as one bigger segment. For startups, it's crucial to measure not only the quantity of the potential segment, but its quality. A quality segment will help engage users quickly. Learn from them and iterate over your products. Make sure you choose a segment that is accessible for you, your university, your group of friends, or your neighborhood. If relevant, choose a segment with the shortest sales cycle, so you don't wait too long between the time your customer is exposed to the product until you can show value. You could do that by choosing the segment that will consume a more simple product, or the segment that will be willing to pay maybe less but buy your product more quickly. If you have a bit of a product, you better start with the smaller companies as your customers and reach out directly to the decision maker rather than going through a lengthy process of a big company. In addition, try to find a segment that is less crowded, so you have no or few competitors. For example, the messaging company Slack found great opportunity in the enterprise segment, with very little competition. They realized their value was to focus specifically on tech teams and small companies and start-ups that work quickly and needed to communicate quickly. With tech features integrated in their product. Had they wanted to focus on consumers rather than enterprise, they would have been faced with a great deal of good competition like Whatsapp and WeChat So, now we've had the chance to explore market segmentation. We're going to advice into some exercises, and we want you to be able to be involved, even if you don't have an idea of your own yet. So, Ronnie and I have some exciting news we want to share with you. We decided to create Embarkment. Like many entrepreneurs, our idea came passion and need. Lauren is obsessed with dogs. That's very true. And I'm passionate about finding good, safe, and fun place for my dog to stay while I travel for work. So, Ronnie needs reliable and affordable place for a dog, and I need to spend more time with dogs, because I can't have my own right now. Plus, I could use the extra cash. We figured we were not alone in how we felt and what we needed. So we decided to create Embarkmetn, a safe home for your dog to stay in with people who are excited to spend time with your dog while you're away. So the idea is simple. You sign up for our app, as either a sitter and tell us your availability and about the environment you'll be keeping the visiting dog in. Or, sign up as an owner, and tell us what you're looking for in a sitter and when you'll be away. We will match you with the best sitter for your dog at a reasonable price. So, we need to use market segmentation to come up with a marketing plan. Obviously the first should be sitters versus owners. But even within each of these, we have to understand who are the different users and who to focus on. Why don't you join our team and help us conduct a market segmentation for Embarkment? You can start with one practice of market segmentation and then try another until you have a solid segmentation of the market. Thanks for helping us out with our first steps of marketing plan for Embarkment. Some of the things we considered for the geographic segmentation, for example, were neighborhood and proximity to dog parks. So, we can tailor our solutions for each neighborhood and map other solutions available for the dog owners there. When thinking of behavioral segmentation, we came up with dividing families that are going on a family vacation from individuals going on business trips. This way the service they are looking for might be different and so do our messaging, and the places we decide to advertise on. But there is no right or wrong here. You could go with demographic segmentation, and divide it based on demographic characteristics of the dogs themselves. Like big dog versus small dogs, for example. Or even psychographic segmentation of the owners with different solutions that may be priced differently. Like come and get a deluxe service versus come and be just another dog in our backyard. Yeah market segmentation is probably at the very, very center of a go to market strategy that's successful. So first let's talk about what is a market segment. So a market segment is a group of people that have two things in common. One is a used case. They have a common set of needs that they would be fulfilling through a product like yours or someone elses. And secondly, and this is the one people miss, they talk to each other. So a segment is actually a unit of conversation and therefore, and the reason why that's so important is if you can get your marketing message circulating inside a segment, the segment will circulate it for you. No entrepreneur can afford to go out and pay to address every prospect that they want to sell to. You have to have your community selling for you. But that means you have to be able to model the boundaries of that community and be able to aim your marketing communications activities in a way that that community embraces them and it resonates inside that community. So just to make that point crystal clear. When yo talk about your product, your saying things that apply to many communities, that will not resonate inside a community. When you talk about the specific needs of that community in the language that community talks to itself about even when your not talking about you now your going to resonate with that community. So this market segmentation in that sense. Is a communications vehicle to make sure you talk the talk of the customer so they can then walk the walk with you going forward. That's idea number one. The second thing about market segmentation and this is kind of a fun experience you have if you've been marketing for awhile. Fun if you like learning with pain. So, the idea is whenever you think about a segment, people usually draw a circle they say, okay so we're targeting this segment. And then inevitably somebody comes along and says, what about this customer who's right at the edge of the circle and almost inside but not quite. And then well you, well okay we'll bring them in too. And then well, we'll bring these people in here, and then we'll bring. And pretty soon there's just no integrity in the process at all. So what we've learned about segments is you cannot define a segment by its boundary. because wherever you draw a line there'll be somebody just on the other side of that line who's pretty darn close to the segment, right. So what you do instead is you define segments by their center points. This is where they get this idea called the poster child. The poster child is the perfect exemplar, the ideal representation of the target customer with the compelling reason to buy. And that person, and often you create something they call a persona, which would be the embodiment of that target customer, and then you aim all of your marketing communications at that one person because they resonate with all the people around them. And furthermore you get your engineering and you name, aim all of your engineering at solving the use case exactly the way that customer would like it solved, and again that engineering will resonate with people around, and so therefore you can act on the world in units of used cases and word of mouth groups. And so segmentation is designed to allow you to leverage engineering to the point where the world is on your side. As soon as you go outside the use case and as soon as you go outside the conversation group the world is no longer working with you. They may not be working against you, but they're not working with you. And as an entrepreneur, at the beginning, you desperately need the world to work with you. Eventually, if you become a global standard, then you don't need conversation groups. Google does not need a conversation group, it is a global standard. But most of us are not Google, and so particularly at the beginning. And even at the beginning, Google was not Google, so how do you get started with those early groups? As more mentioned, you can also focus your segmentation on a Persona. Personas are fictional characters created to represent different user types then they're going to use your product in very similar way. So, the best practice is to define three to five different personas and describe them as if they're real people, so with a name, a job, values whatever hobbies and maybe even a quote that the user might say. We'll use these to create an actual profile for each persona. Let's take you to kids for example. This is Art, he's a dad, and as much as he'd love to expose his son to all different content music he really wants to make sure that his son only consumes age appropriate content. And this is Finn, his son, he's 3 years old. He wants to watch YouTube all day long. And he wants to do everything by himself. He needs an interface that's going to allow him to do it himself, and be easy to navigate. These are two personas: Art is our decision maker, so as a company YouTube needs Art to trust in their product with his son. And Finn needs an app that he actually enjoys using. So, a persona for a could be a Dalia, a 29-year old finance executive who frequently travels for business. When she's not working, she loves the outdoors, trying new upscale restaurants, cooking, and of course spending time with her Golden doodle, who she considers a child. In a business to business example, creating a persona can be a little bit more complex. You really have to understand the business you're targeting and the individual constraints of each user and decision maker. So, the user could be a marketing person or an engineer, but the decision maker could be someone more senior level like the CEO or CFO. So how do choose which market segmentation to use? You want to look for buyers that are filling strong pin points, and also have money, a sense of urgency and a good fit with the features of your current version of your product. We can go with your graphics segmentation and choose our own city to start with. This will allow us to map out all the local competitors and easily research potential clients at the dog parks. On the other hand we could focus on behavioral segmentation and target people with dogs who vacations frequently. Focus, focus, focus. It will help you to develop a clear messaging. And will make it easier to decide what product features to build next. You can focus on building the best product for this segment's needs. Don't compromise on 80% satisfaction of few segments. Make one specific segment very, very heavy with your product. Let's ask Geoffrey Moore for his advice on choosing the most valuable market segment to begin with. I think actually, so the problem statement of choosing the most valuable one, I think is too hard a standard. So you just want to start a fire, so if it will burst into flames, it's good. Now did you hit the perfect place? If I had started the fire over here, would it have burned faster and bigger? Maybe, but I started the fire. And so that means, how do I recognize a segment that's not very inflammable. So, what does wet wood look like versus dry wood? And I think a couple of things, with the target customer, the key issues are going to be, is this a target customer I understand? Do I have access to them, can I communicate with them clearly, and do they have the kind of funding or money necessary to participate with my offer? Okay, so if you say okay, I got that, okay. Then we go to the compelling reason to buy, and the key issue there is how compelling is my compelling reason to buy? Entrepreneurs have a compelling reason to sell, so we think our products should be bought, and we think the compelling reason to buy is I need your money. But that's not how a customers thinks, right? The customer is thinking, now I'm going to participate in your offer because of something I need, not something you need and so and then the issue is it, before if you're just doing it for free, and a lot of this stuff innitially stars for free, then you can kind of be a lot looser because I'm giving you a few clicks of my life. Most people are willing to donate a few clicks of their life. The third one's then going to be, does my offer generally scratch the itch that I said it would. And so they call it product market fit. Does my product really, really do this? I mean I know I want to say it does, I want them to buy it, I've said all the right words. But is that really me, is that really who we are? And there you have to be brutally honest with yourself. A lot of times you hope it will, and the market's giving you a message saying, no, no. And you're going, yes, yes, no. Being an entrepreneur is a very funny state because, you need to have enough confidence to hear a bunch of no's and keep going. But you can't be tone deaf, right? You have to learn and not just be stubborn, and that's a bit of a touch. And then the final one is, is my offer in this context truly differentiated enough. Because when you're starting out, nobody knows who you are. So it's not like they're loyal to you. So you really do have to stand out at the beginning, or else the world would go, well why wouldn't I just go with one of the other guys? We've talked about a few different things so far like market segmentation and personas. And I know you're a startup, so you just want to get to the bottom line. So where do you start? What do you do first? Well, let's talk to an expert. What does Moore have to say about this? As a startup, I think it's best to start with persona and I think the persona is the target customer with a compelling reason to buy. And then I think as you start to engage them with that persona. And so you put out your app or you put out your downloadable thing, and you're hoping this persona will download. Your communication, you use pictures that you hope look like the person you want. And you say things you hope they want to hear. And then you start seeing how well they engage with you. And sometimes as you watch them engage, you realize, I have the wrong persona. This thing is actually getting traction, but it's getting traction with a different group of people. So you say okay, well now maybe that's my persona, right? So you have to be willing to move. I think when you start getting quantitative around the discipline of segmentation is when you want to scale. When you start scaling and you start saying, I'm going to actually make significant marketing, I'm going to raise capital somehow. And I'm going to spend that money on marketing. Now you need to have a more analytical approach to where you're targeting that money. But the beginning I think it's much more qualitative. Great, so let's move forward and understand where we position ourselves among our competitors. But first we need to analyze our competition. Now, there are four levels of market competition which we use to assess our competitors in the industry and how we are placed in the industry. So, the four levels of competition are product form, product category, generic, and budget competition. So, let's go through this with a tangible example. Let's take flavored water a. This is a lightly flavored water without any added sugar. Competition at the product form level will include products that have the exact same features and similar values as our product. So a competitor at the product form level would be flavored water b. This is another flavored water, without any added sugar, just gives you a little extra kick to your water. Now, product form competition is extremely narrow. We only consider products that are actually the exact same, just different brands. So both of these waters are flavored waters without any added sugar, they just are different brands. Now, product category competition includes products with similar features but it's a little bit of a bigger scope than product form. So an example of that would be flavored sparkling water. Now,, this is also flavored water that doesn't have sugar, but it's a sparkling water. So, it's a competitor on the category level. Now ,thinking about our flavored water example, I want you to consider your own app. Who are your competitors? Now thing about product category competition and product form competition. What competitors do you have in these areas? Now fill in each competitor's name in the appropriate field. If you don't have your own app to use, feel free to use a Embarkment. For product form, it's important to remember that your competitors offer nearly the exact same thing as you do. So we found a competitor that did just that. They had a few small differences, such as allowing the sitters to stay in the owners home rather than the dog going to the sitters home. Now for product category, it's important to remember that the scope was a little bit larger. Now your competitors here don't do the exact same thing you do, but are pretty close. So for aBARKment, the local dog kennel is our main competitor at the category level. It's more like a hotel for dogs rather than having your dog stay in a home with someone, and it's a little bit more expensive. For your final two levels of competition, generic competition and budget competition, think larger scale. Now, generic competition includes products and services that fulfill the same customer needs. So, a generic competition for our flavored water here, would be any other drink that our potential customer can choose. So, regular water, sparkling water, juice, tea, sports drink, sodas, you get the picture. Budget competition includes all products and services that compete for the same amount of money. Okay, so wow, let's think about that. This is a $2.50 water in the Bay Area, so, everything else that's $2.50 is our budget competitor. So, this adorable stuffed monkey, a sponge, pack of trading cards, some breakfast cereal, some pencils, some post-its, a hamburger and fries. You get the picture. Now, for more expensive items in the budget category, like lets say an engagement ring, you might be competing for a car, or a down payment to a house or part of it or vacation. You get the picture. Just think larger scale. These four types of competition may seem like a lot, and they can be. But you don't need to focus on all of them at once. It's just really to help you organize your thoughts. Now with our flavored water example, if you're a brand manager of this water bottle, you'll need to analyze all four levels of competition so you know how to position yourselves in terms of the brand and in terms of real placement of this product on store shelves. But as a startup with an app, it's good to know the different types of competition you have out there, at the different levels, but don't bother over-analyzing the competition at levels that make less sense for you right now. Like the budget level. So now that we know the different types of competition, how do we figure out where we fit among them? Well, let's talk about that now. So how do you identify competitors? Well, you could always just ask. Ask potential customers how they solve the same need you solve. So with the bark myth, we can go to a dog park and talk to different dog owners and ask them how they solve the problem of having someone watch their dog while they're on vacation. We can ask them, do you take your dog to a kennel? Do you get your dog walker to come a few times a day when you're out? Do you ask your friends to watch your dog when you're gone? We can try to find out how they do research to figure out where to put their dog. Maybe it's just word of mouth between people. Maybe they go online. Maybe they ask each other at the dog park. Another way to identify your competitors is to just search for them yourself. Here, let's try it with a bark myth. If I search dog sitting online. I can see who my biggest competitors are. Look, the first people who come up are Rover and Doggy Vacay. They're very well known names in the industry. And I can see who's buying ads for this same keyword search. I want you to take a moment to think about your own app idea or business idea. Who are your competitors? I want you to think about some keywords you would use to search for your potential business. And so some search queries to see whose at the top of the list. You can check out the Playstore or any app store to do the same thing. Now if you don't have an app idea feel free to use a bark myth but don't use the competitor examples we already talked about. Insert the competitors names in these three boxes. So what we found for Embarkment is rover.com, Dog Vacay, and the Pooch Hotel. Now you know who are your competitors, but what are your competitive advantages and disadvantages? Think about your values and be honest with yourself about it, so you are aware of where you stand against others. Analyze your competitive advantages and disadvantages. An advantage is gained by a company when it can provide the same value as its competitors but at a lower price. Or I can charge higher prices, by providing greater value for differentiation. Competitive advantage results from matching core strengths to the opportunities. Being familiar with your competitive advantages and disadvantages will help you position yourself among your customers. You may want to include this in your pitch deck, or somehow share this information with your customers. What is your unique value? Now if you know this answer, it's going to help you shape your marketing plan. The advantages can be based on one of the five P's of marketing. Let's look at those. The 5 P's of Marketing are, product, price, promotion, place and people. Now, these are going to help you evaluate your main advantages over your competitors. For product, do you have any features that others don't have? Do you provide value in some way? For price, are you about to bring the exact same value but lower the price? Now that would be a great value to your customer that are on a budget. And for promotion, maybe you have some marketing channels that you use to promote your business or to generate sales. For place, do you have a unique place you can sell your product? Maybe it used to only be sold in stores. And now you can sell it on line, or vice versa. And finally we have people. What are the strengths of your team? What are your co-founders bringing to the table that's going to help make you successful? Now I want you to take a few minutes to think about your own competitive advantages for your idea? Or you can use Embarkment if you don't have one. Go through each of these and think about what your advantages over your customer. So for product, what features do you have that your main competitor doesn't? Or are you cheaper, more expensive than your main competitor? Things like that. Now using the blanks below, fill in a competitive advantage for each of the five Ps of marketing. Now be sure to save your answers somewhere else, because we'll be using these again. So let's go over this for a bark ment. One of our features that our competitors don't have is on call vets. And we also have insurance for the animal and the sitter's home. Now for price, we actually have a little bit of a lower price than our main competitor. But we have added value that we just talked about in the product. Now for promotions, I don't want to give too much away, but we have the Pal + Paws Walk. This is where our sitters and our owners get to meet each other and do a 3K for charity to save shelter animals. For place, we're only going to accept nice homes and yards. We're going to vet the environment the sitters have for each dog. We'll talk more about this part in a few. And for people, well we have Ronnie and me, we're both passionate about what we do. And we're going to go above and beyond to make sure this company gets off the ground. Once you've identified your top few advantages, there are a few frameworks you can use to outline them. We're going to use a grid to map all your competitors on one slide and position you as the leader. You're going to create something like this for your final project. Let's start by focusing on two things that you really excel at. These are your competitive advantages. We'll use these to label the two axes of the grid. And we want you to place your main competitors here. But again, you'll be positioned as the leader, right in this area. These competitive advantages can be price versus value, or you can write a specific value to your customer. Maybe think of something that your potential users or investors would be really, really interested in, or excited about. So we'll have to name our two axes accordingly. So if it's price, it will be low price and high price. Now let's say our value is innovation. We can have high innovation and low innovation. Or you can choose something else. So for specific and generic, let's talk about this. For Embarkment we started to realize that the general market was a bit crowded. So we needed to find a unique value to differentiate our app from, let's say, a dog kennel. So we decided to focus on a niche market. And go the same idea, but only for fancy dogs with the most refined tastes. We're going to offer high end services. We'll only accept sitters who have nice homes and nice backyards. Those sitters must take the dogs on multiple walks a day. And the sitters must only offer the highest quality food and care for the dogs. For the more refined of Embarkment, we chose a grid that includes one axis for quality, let's change that now. One axis for quality, so we have high quality and low quality, and we're going to keep the specific and generic axis. So now that we have our grid, we're going to choose competitors from the product form category, so these are our direct competitors. And we might also find a few other relevant competitors. So we have the local kennel, which is pretty generic. And the quality's not great, but sometimes they're associated with vets, so that's good. Then we have The Dog House, which is more specific because they only take dogs, but they're not as specific as we are, and the quality's not super great. The don't really vet their sitters. Then we have Doggie Vacay, which they are pretty good quality but they're not as specific as we are. And finally we have Rover, who also has great quality, but they're more generic than we are. So notice that we're here in the top right-hand quadrant. This is the best place to be, and it really sets us apart from all of our other competitors. Now that we have our competitive analysis laid out, we need to complete a key part of our pitch deck, and coincidentally, part of your final project. This is the value proposition. Our value proposition is our promise of value to our customers or investors. Now it explains what problem our product solves, and what benefits we're giving our customers. We need a frame or value proposition so everything we learn in this lesson is clear, organized, and powerful. The leading template for value propositions in use today was written by none other than Geoffrey Moore, in his book Crossing the Chasm. So let's hear from the expert himself. When it comes to articulating a value proposition, we have a template that we use in our practice which has got six lines and it's proved over the years to be pretty useful. So the first line is for and that's just like who you're talking to. And we'll talk about market segmentation, but we're going to talk to what we call the poster child in your segment, you're perfect target customer. And the next line is called who. And that specifies the state that your target customer would be in, in wanting your offer. So you have for these people, who are in this state of mind. Then the third line, it's called our product or our service is. And that's where you categorize your offer generically. It's a little bit like, what aisle in the supermarket would I go to to find your product? It's sort of that sort of thing is in line three. So you're not trying to differentiate in line three, you're just trying to say what you are. And then that, and then the fourth line is your primary benefit. The thing that basically, it speaks a lot to the state that the customer's in. Typically if the state is a problem state this is the answer to that problem kind of thing. And then the last two lines help position you against your closest competitor. So unlike, and this is where you put your closest competitor, and what's important here is that you not pick a competitor that's ineffective or not valuable to the customer. You want to pick a legitimate alternative that this customer should probably be thinking about. But then what you say is unlike this competitor, our offer, and that's the sixth line. And you state your primary differentiation there. And it's not that our offer is better. It's typically what you normally do with differentiation, is you say, they are good for this and we're good for that. Okay, so for our value proposition, we're simply going to fill in Moore's Template. Our first line is For. We're thinking about our target customers here. So who is your market segment or persona? Then we have Who. So our target customer is blank. Now what is their main problem that our company is solving for? So this is where you write in their problem or their need. Our product or service is, blank. Now this is where you describe the product or the solution. You want to categorize this generally. Remember, this is not the differentiation line. Then we have that provides. What is your primary benefit to your customer? What is your solution to their problem? Cite your breakthrough capability here. And the main benefit that the customer receives. Next we have unlike. This is where you want to reference your competition. Now you're not trying to compare a Michelin star restaurant to a Subway here. This is a real alternative to your business. And finally, our product or solution, blank. This is where you state your primary differentiation with your competitor. This is your key point of competitive differentiation. Not every way that you're different, and some consider this last line optional. So taken together, the template is for your target customers, who, what is their main problem, and you state your product or services, describe the solution or your product, but don't differentiate. And what is it that you provide for your customer? Unlike, who's your main competition? And what is it that differentiates you from that competition. This is simple framework, but really helps you clearly define your product and where you fit against the competitor. Now, I want you to take the time to fill this out yourself. I want you to fill in the blanks to complete your value proposition. You can use your own app idea, or you can try to fill it in using the aBarkment idea. Let's check out the final advice Moore had for us on value propositions. Now, you'll notice he uses the term positioning statement. And that's totally okay. Many people use the term positioning statement and value proposition interchangeably. So, you hear a lot about positioning in marketing. And I think your first instinct is to think about, that's something I'm supposed to do. But the first way you want to think about positioning is actually where you fit in your customer's head. So, in other words, the world, or your customer base, only has a certain number of little compartments to put things in. And so the first question is, what compartment are they putting you in? And so remember in that positioning statement we were talking about where we said, our product or service is a blank. So the first positioning is to make sure you're in the right box. You're put in the right aisle in the supermarket. And that seems obvious, but sometimes there are multiple boxes you could be in. So it's important to think about, where do I want to compete and in what category do I want to compete? So the first thing is then just get yourself into the right category. Then the second thing is, the way customers actually understand you, is relative to your competitors. In other words, that's how they understand the category, and that's how they're going to understand you and how you're different than the rest of the people in the category. So it's important that you assemble a set of legitimate competitors that you have respect for. You don't want to be the best house in a bad neighborhood. You actually want to be the best house or the right house in a good neighborhood. So, you want to pick worthy competitors that, for some situations, you would acknowledge, they're actually better at solving that problem than I am. But together, we're all in the business of providing this general type of service. And then the last piece of positioning. So after we've done the generic category. After you've established what we call the competitive set, then the last piece of positioning is okay now, why are we different? How are we different? And why does that matter specifically to the value proposition that the customer will be bringing to this purchase? So you're helping the customer saying, the question you want to answer is, you would want to call us when? And the opposite of that answer is, on the other hand, if it were more of this situation, you probably should call one of the others. Congratulations, you completed your first lesson. Now we've covered a lot of information here. So let's just take a moment to reflect on some of the main takeaways. First, connect your offer to the world. To do this, you need to understand your market. So you can make sure you solve the right problem to the right audience. And second, I want you to focus on the most qualitative segment first. That way you can really show how to light the fire and make impact quickly. Third, it's good to have competitors. It shows that someone else agrees that there is a real need and real market for your problem. Just make sure you find your unique value or main competitive advantage you can differentiate your product with. And finally your value proposition isn't just a useless exercise. I can really help you connect deeply with your product, and know what's important when you're pitching it to other people like customers and investors. So we'll see you next time in lesson two, when we talk about what to do when you launch your app. At this point, we've gone over how to understand the market. We did this by creating a market segmentation and identifying our most valuable customers to focus on. We learned how to position our product to these customers and how to, differentiate what we're offering from our competitors. And we were able to sum all of this up in our value proposition statement. These skills help you to not only prepare your marketing plan, but more importantly understand your users. Who are these users you want to market your product to? Hopefully you have this picture by now. Now, we're going to add to what we've learned and go over what to do before you launch. With pre-launch we're going to explore what it takes to prepare for your launch in an efficient and productive way. We're hoping to provide you with a toolbox, bunch of things you have to learn and do before you launch your product. This preparation will help you launch more successfully and more effectively. If you have a good app, and I'm sure you do, you may be able to create some buzz around your launch. So, you want to make sure your all prepared to it. In this lesson, we're going to go through finalizing you marketing plan. This is going to include what we learned in the last lesson, Understanding the Customer. Along with your marketing goals, your tracking and metrics setup, and your distribution plan. Then we're going to go through preparing your materials that you're going to need for launch. So your landing pages, your app store listing, and your beta testing groups. So to be as effective as possible with our plan, let's first start with setting your marketing goals. And answer the question, what is this that you're trying to achieve? As a startup it can be challenging to set your marketing goals. You don't want to waste your time on things that you'll do nothing with later. This is why setting your goals is so important. Consider this. Please tell me which way to go from here. That depends a good deal on where you want to go. I don't care much where. Then it doesn't much matter which way to go. You're sure enough to get somewhere, if only you walk long enough. You need goals that are realistic and attainable. It's fun to spend a few minutes thinking about your vision and high level goals, like to be the most visible brand of the industry. Or, make sure every potential user wants to talk about our app. But as a startup, you probably don't have enough time to spend full weeks on wording your high level goals. You'll want to jump into your actionable objectives. I want you to take this opportunity to quickly draft two actionable marketing goals for your own app idea. There is no right or wrong answer here, but we still encourage you to try it. If you don't have your own app, help Lauren and me by drafting two actionable marketing goals for Embarkment. So now that you've set your two marketing goals to work off of, let's explore this a little bit more. Now make sure you're thinking about what you hope to actually achieve and what outcomes you're really looking for. You need to think about different objectives for different stages in your product lifecycle. Is your goal now branding, or drive traffic? Increase ad downloads? Improve engagement? Is it a call to action? We don't have to be too visionary here. These are not our startup's high level goals. And we're not going to change the world with our marketing goals. We want you to set goals that are down to Earth and attainable. So think short-term goals, like within the next few months. That way, you can break them into smaller pieces and can track them easily. Also be authentic. Pick a goal you actually care about, that will be meaningful to your business. This will help you to stick to it and achieve it. To be able to track your goals, they have to be measurable and aligned with your performance. Your goals need to be really specific, with numbers and deadlines. For example, increasing app downloads by 5% in 30 days. You can use these goals as your KPIs or key performance indicators for the next few months. This will help you evaluate the success of your business. Remember, a KPI is a business metric that you'll use to evaluate factors that are important to your success. Each business will have different KPIs. For example, a clothing store's KPI may be net revenue. The government's KPI may be employment rate. Or as for Embarkment, our KPI could be the number of sitters we have on our site, or the traffic we get to the site. So to choose these goals, you'll want to start thinking about the stage in the funnel you want to improve on. Is your goal to try and bring in more visitors? Here you're going to want to consider traffic. So your goal could be to increase traffic by 5% in the next 60 days. Maybe your goal is to convert customers to leads. You can consider sign ups here. So your aim could be to obtain 15,000 sign ups to receive launch notifications over the next 90 days. Or maybe your goal is to convert leads to customers. We could consider enrollment here. Our goal could be to enroll 5% of our leads into our premium subscription, or just to turn them into paying customers. Goals like these are trackable, and we can easily tie them into our Google Analytics account to track. We'll discuss that later in the course. Okay, so taking in what you've learned so far about setting your marketing goals, I want you to revisit the two goals you created earlier and change them to reflect what you've learned. Now challenge yourself with this, but be realistic. You don't have all the money in the world, yet, and your team is probably understaffed. Fill in your responses here. Thanks for your response. Now remember, your goal should be authentic and specific, something you actually care about. They should have short term deadlines, so within the next few months or so. They should be measurable. And finally, they should realistic. Now you want to pick something that's challenging, yet attainable given your staffing and financial resources. It's just not realistic to think that you're going to go from 0 to 100 million users overnight. Okay, so here are our goals for Embarkment. First, increase traffic of dog owners to our site by 5% monthly for the next four months. And second, increase the number of qualified sitters by 8% within the next 60 days. We set our goals in the beginning because they will effect the rest of the decisions we make. For example, if our goal is related to brand awareness, we may choose to advertise on bill boards and the online equivalent of bill boards, display ads. If you goal is driving more traffic to your website, you'll probably focus your advertising with online ads with clear call to action. Like join us today and get free membership for a year. If your goals are very specific to one segment or audience or location, then you may choose some local channels to advertise on. It might hanging posters in the local dog park. Or having your online ad on the homepage of a local popular business in your town. For us one of the goals we have set for Abarkment is to increase traffic of dogs owners to our website 5% monthly. That means that we're going to focus our marketing plan on online ads that target our niche audience. We might also produce a funny video, fancy dogs, and a call to action at the end that says, receive our promotional offer or a launch special. And then we're just going to hope the video goes viral and we get even more customers. Now, for our goal or brand awareness, we'd probably prefer to use display ads on dog related websites. Or run a Facebook, Pinterest, or a Google+ campaign inside dog owner communities. Most marketing plans will start with a lot of what we learned in lesson one, like who's your audience? Who are the personas, or what segments are you going to focus on? You'll consider your competitive analysis and your value proposition. So now we've identified our marketing goals, we can focus on creating our distribution plan. The distribution plan will focus on how and where we're going to reach our potential customers. Now of course, we're not trying to make a full marketing plan that the chief marketing officer at a Fortune 500 company might make. But we try to focus on the most effective parts of the plan, that will help you figure out your action plan to take your product to market. But first, we need to do some research. There are a few tools and different options we'll go over to help you conduct market research. The goal is to look for insights that'll allow us to select some starting points, not to come up with a super elaborate plan. Remember marketing is all about making a hypothesis, testing the market, and then adjusting. Be sure to write down your hypothesis and results, so you that you learn what worked and what didn't work. Now we're going to go ahead and use Ebarknet as our research example when we talk about different tools. I encourage you to follow along with your own app, or feel free to follow along with Ebarknet if you don't have one yet. A great place to start when researching your distribution plan is through Google Trends. Google Trends is a completely free service that allows you to see the popularity of search terms in relation to the total volume of search terms across the world. And in various languages. Google processes over 40,000 search queries every single second, and they're willing to share those insights with you. The reason why this is a great place to start is that not only can you see some really interesting things from all of these search queries, like the most searched topic of the day. But you can also see the history of these search terms and of related terms for your business. So I have Ronnie here with me, let's use her expertise to dive into Google Trends a little bit. Let's go to Google Trends and see what comes up. Let's go to explore topics and type in pet sitting. So we see here that interest over time is relatively consistent, although I see that there are some big- Yeah, that's interesting. If you look at the dates, yeah, you can see that there is a peak every summer. Oh yeah. So people are searching more for pet sitting during their summer vacations. Yeah and maybe not as much during their holiday vacations, that's interesting. Yeah let's scroll down. So what are these regional interests? Here we can see where the search term is most popular. So like the United States is most popular? Yeah, you can see here the United States, it has 100. So this is where the search is most common. The place with the greatest volume will always have 100, and then all the other numbers here are always relative to the 100 number. Okay, so we see that people in the United States, Canada, Australia and even the United Kingdom, I guess, are the most interested in pet setting. Not exactly, we can assume that these countries are the top ones to search this exact search term in English. So it's not that surprising that the top countries are English-speaking countries. Let's make sure we compare apples to apples. So, either we compare a few different English-speaking regions or we decide to compare between different search terms. So, if we click on United States, let's see a breakdown. So pet sitting is the most popular in New Hampshire, it seems, and North Carolina, Arizona, Colorado. Yeah, actually, we can choose these regions as our pilot regions or something like that. Oh, that's awesome. Let's go back for a second with the world wide view. This can also give us insights on popular related terms. Let's go down. This can also give us insights about related searches and related terms. So in our messaging and tag line and wording that we use in our website and messaging, we can use not only dog sitting, but also pet sitters, pet sitter, pet care, pet sitting services. And other terms that people already search more. It's cool how they break it down I'm sure that'll help you develop what keywords you're going to want to use. Let's go back to the top. I want to show you the categories section. Here? Yeah, this can be very helpful in research. So we have options like Hobbies & Leisure, Pets & Animals, Jobs & Education. Categories are important if you want to expand into the Google Display Network. The Google Display Network allows you to place display ads on related websites. And you can choose where to advertise based on categories. What we learn here will help us choose a category of websites to advertise in. Clearly pets and animals seems relevant to us, but look, under jobs and education, the interesting pet sitting shot up after 28. That's interesting, I would have never thought to look at this. So what else can we find in web search? Just a second, before we do that, let's go back to jobs and education and go back to all categories. Yeah so this will show us the interest level based on specific types of searches. For example, if we learn that our top search term is super popular in image search too, we might consider this as another advertising option. We can make sure that there are plenty of relevant images that will link back to our website. Another cool thing you can do is actually to compare different search terms, and it's not necessarily for image search, it can be for web search too. Let's go back to web search and- Yeah, let's just add another term, like dog services. And it's interesting to see that maybe a few years ago, the demand was quite similar, but recently, you can see that the demand for the red one, which is dog service, is much higher than pet sitting. It's interesting. Yeah, pet sitting seems to slowly be declining. Yeah, so whether you have to decide how to phrase your tag line or which key words to choose for your campaign, either way it helps you focus better. Sometimes it can really show you the demand of the market. I mean if people search more for Product X or Product Ym so you can develop the product that has more demand on Google Search. Demand can be seasonal, as you can see here. So you could use that either to choose which app to develop or at least to plan your advertising campaigns around things people search for on holidays or in the Summer, or around back to school, for example. So for us, if we see in that during summer people are searching more for pet sitting, we know that this is a time where we want to really, really hit our campaigns. It's surprising to see how seasonal pet sitting is. So maybe we should target families more than just business people. Yeah, we learned something. Look at that. Okay, well let's go to a question about this. Okay, so we saw this tool. I think it's pretty awesome, and I could have a lot of fun with it, but I think it's time for you to explore it a little bit more. I want you to go to Google Trends and explore a search term that's related to your app. If you don't have one, go ahead and use Embarkment, but don't use the same search term we did. Then fill in the blanks below. First I want you to tell us what term you used. Then what city was that term most popular in? Then check out the related terms. What are the two most popular related terms? Add one here and here. And finally, just for fun, what was the most surprising thing you found out when exploring Google Trends? Thanks for your input. Okay, so when I went through this just now, I used the term dog sitting. I found dog sitting was most popular in Colorado, and specifically in Denver, Colorado. And the two most popular related terms were pet sitting and a dog sitting. I thought the A was interesting in that. I found it most interesting that the term tended to peak during summer months. So we may want to pick up our advertising around that time. Using what we found in Google Trends, you can further explore keyword options using Google Keyword Planner. Keyword Planner is an awesome tool that's similar to Google Trends in some ways, like identifying related keywords and seeing historical statistics. But the biggest difference is we get to narrow down options by their performance and what we can afford. This will help us make our plan more realistic. And we'll support our decision about keywords and budget when we build our ad words campaign. Now the biggest takeaways for keyword planner are first expanding your keyword options. Based on your first set of keywords from Google Trends, you can get ideas to more relevant keywords, and hopefully ones you haven't actually thought of before. Second, you can use it as a simulation. For different bids, budgets and learn what estimated number of clicks and conversions you might get from certain keywords. This will help you choose your bid on every keyword and plan your budget accordingly for you AdWords campaign. However, if your keywords are really popular among advertisers it might be challenging and expensive for you to bid on clicks. We'll learn more in lesson four about how your placement in a search results list is a combination of your performance and your bid. Now, as a beginner it's usually pretty tricky for you. It'll take you a while to perform better than the existing players. Especially if it's a crowded market, like insurance, for example. And obviously your advertising budget is going to be a little bit lower than those big name advertisers. Make sure you're focusing on keywords that are really specific for your added value. That way you'll perform better than your competitors and have fewer competitors. For us, for example we learned that in Google Trends pet care is a more popular search term than pet sitting. So we may want to go with that search term and reach a bigger audience. However the truth of the matter is, then we would be competing with veterinarian services, insurance for pets and other advertisers. Who have a much larger budget than we do at Embarkment. So rather than having us walk through Google's Keyword Planner with you. We highly encourage you to check out Google's documentation, it's really wonderful for people of all skill sets. So if you're an expert at Keyword Planner or just starting out, the documentation is really easy and engaging. There's a link to a video in the instructor notes that talks more about Keyword Planner as well as a link to the documentation. This documentation will be endlessly helpful for you when you're exploring keywords and other Google tools. It's great practice to get comfortable exploring documentation because technology is ever changing. We learned how to use free tools to understand what people will search when searching for a solution. Now let's think about the places either virtual or physical that potential customers will be exposed to your business. These places are the path to get your product to your customer. We call them distribution channels. For Coca-Cola, a distribution channel can be a grocery store or a restaurant. Usually for consumer packaged goods, the distribution channel is wholesale, retail, distributors, e-commerce websites, things like that. Now for your app, it'll probably be one of the app stores, or a website, or even a creative partnership you can think of. So on that note, let's talk about partnerships. Partnerships are a great way to maximize or initiate distribution of your app. Partnerships can be mutually beneficial for many companies and can be cost effective when you're just starting out. When thinking about potential partners, you need to think about touch points, which are the methods you use to connect with your customers. So is it a face to face meeting, is it through online ads, or is it through a partnership? You'll need to figure out the lifestyle of your customer. And when they need to solve a problem, you have the solution for it. For Embarkment, our customers will be looking for a solution to their dog sitting needs when they are going to travel. Let's think about the behavior of a person that goes on vacation, and where we might find an opportunity to connect with them, when they need us most. This person might book his flight online, maybe search for a hotel or AirBnB in his destination, and perhaps also rent a car. For example, we could consider partnering with a travel agency to be their preferred dogsitting service. When booking with a travel agency, you'll have add-on options, like renting a car, booking a hotel, flights, getting travel insurance, and now we'll pitch them adding dogsitting. Now we need to consider why somebody else would want to partner with us. In this case, we would be great for a travel agency because they're now able to offer a more holistic booking experience and being the one stop shop for their customers. More than that, these players are usually basing their model on affiliate networks. So, they get a fee for each click or conversion coming from their site to ours. For us, it's great because they're putting us in front of people who are planning to travel, and we will be paying them only for a successful outcome. Either leads, which are clicks. Or customers, so conversions. It's a mutually beneficial relationship. Take YouTube, for example. When they were just starting out they sought a partnership with Myspace to host their videos, and look where YouTube is now. You're actually watching a YouTube hosted video right now. On that note, let's hear from Steve Chen, a YouTube co-founder. My name is Steve, Steve Chen, I am most well known for being one of the co-founders of YouTube and one of the probably the earliest employees of PayPal, PayPal link. And a little known fact I was also one of the earliest engineers at Facebook for about 3 months before so that was kind of this in sandwich between PayPal and starting YouTube. I was working at Facebook and so in 2005 when I was filing my taxes, I was filing taxes with both PayPal, Facebook and YouTube on it. And I don't think anybody else can make that claim, ever. [LAUGH] I think for a while there, so I left YouTube in about 2009, 2010. And probably for the first 12 months there, was trying to figure out, because all throughout the twenties and even early 30 was just working on startups. And it was always the kind of, there's no difference between Monday, Wednesday, Saturday, Sunday there's no difference between whatever, 9 AM and 3 AM in the morning. And so I've been doing that for over a decade, and I was always thinking throughout that decade while I was having fun. There were all these other things just starting to get into coffee and photography and headphones and just speakers and watching all these movies that came out throughout all that time that I never got a chance to watch. But after the first 12 months I just realized that none of it is as fun as kind of the challenge and the excitement, the sort of just everything that motivates people to start companies. Nothing really compares to that, so got back into starting a company and so that's what I'm doing now. I went back to Google, Google Ventures as an entrepreneur in residence for about 18 months and got the support from Google Ventures. And then just about a month and a half ago in August of 2015, left Google Ventures because we were ready to start getting external funding and doing our own hiring. With the early days of YouTube started and sort of in that 2005 time frame. I think that the idea and domain name itself, we bought it on Valentine's Day, so February 14th 2005. There was another co-founder, Chad Hurley, we were in Menlo Park California and if you can imagine we search for a YouTube on Google and zero results came up, right. And so we went out, bought the domain name youtube.com and started talking about this site. The site itself originally the idea was, it's a little embarrassing to talk about but it was actually supposed to be kind of a dating site. It was supposed to be a dating site where instead of posting your personal pictures and your personal introduction you would post a video and that would just aggregate everything together. A little introduction to yourself but you would actually see this person and be able to interact with them. Which you know we started developing all the back end was still more or less the same as of what you see with YouTube today. Being able to upload videos. Being able to transcode videos. Being able to embed these videos onto different sites out there on to social networking sites. And the development of the site took about three months. And we launched in May of 2005. And for the first week, it was a total flop. We didn't get a single video uploaded. That was within the category domain of what we thought the site was going to be. Nobody was introducing themselves using the site as a video dating site. However, what we saw was that videos were being uploaded and so within that first week, we quickly changed. Again the back end of the site, we made exactly the same. It was just changing, instead of searching for male or female in the age, you would just search for whatever you wanted to search for in a video. And the look and feel of it was changed a bit, but it was a very quick two day effort to convert what was a sort of a dating video site into a general video site. And one of the things is, Chad, I met Chad, the other cofounder at PayPal, the first day I moved out here to California. He was the original designer of PayPal and I was one of the first engineers and we worked on a number of projects together at PayPal, And same thing, I think one of the ideas of startups and success of startups is this idea of pivoting from what you're originally starting to do and something else instead. And PayPal, many people know what it is now, many people use it as a P2P payment service or personal business payment service. But when it first started, it was this palm pilot security application that one, it never really got off the ground as a security app. And two, these days I don't know many people that still own, carry around palm pilots. But the valuable lesson there was just, if you take a look at what the users are doing, what the user feedback is, and if people aren't using it, taking that technology and maybe pivoting it to something that the users will use. And we did that at PayPal when we took the security side of it and created a payment service on top of it, and the same thing at YouTube. And in the beginning it was not so, the relationship with MySpace started with just the ability for MySpace users to embed HTML onto their profile pages and YouTube had an HTML snippet that you could copy and paste and put into your MySpace profile. After a while it became more of a formal relationship because so many of their users were using YouTube, but it became almost a marriage. That if YouTube went down, so much of the content on MySpace would not be available to view. So we started actually formalizing that relationship when we became, we became aware that so many of their users depended on our service. I think especially early on in a start up in a company when you have very limited internal resources, right. I think some of these partnerships, especially early on when you don't get a lot of these invites, a lot of people asking you to be a partner, you get easily excited by it. I do think that it's valuable to not be overly aggressive in accepting some of these partnerships. So early on at YouTube but sort of an example of this was, we had a lot of people asking us for white labeling the product and just removing YouTube off the label, removing sort of any references to YouTube, and they just wanted us and were willing to pay hundreds to thousands of dollars for this. And at that time, that meant a lot for a YouTube. But at the end of the day, we always still hinged on the fact that the brand name of YouTube was very important to the product. And the earlier the company I think, the more resource starved the company, the harder it is to make that decision. But I do think that it's very important to actually choose the right partnerships that actually will help the company in the long run rather than just something in the next few months or next few weeks. I think that there are even a few companies that wanted to put their own video player on YouTube. When I was there, we didn't allow it. I think now YouTube has accepted some of those deals. But I think it's a whole different world by this point. And some of these guys, I mean they just, it's like ABC or something, there's like only one unique creator of this content, you either do it their way or you'll never get their content. I think it's important to approach the question of any kind of partnership or any kind of agreement is looking at it, from their perspective what they benefit from a deal in the making with you, and I think in the case of YouTube it was always the same. We didn't provide the revenue share, really. We didn't do the sort of ads early on, at least when we were there prior to the acquisition by Google. So when we did these deals it was always for marketing purposes, it was always. Yes, prior to the acquisition of Google, there was still not a lot of ads coming in, so there was not a lot of ad revenue, so there was not a lot of the revenue share that you see on YouTube. So, what can we actually offer the content creators out there. It was really still for, at that time, it was really still for short length content. So things are 30 seconds to two and a half minutes. It wasn't for long length. In fact, we had a rule that no content could be longer than 10 minutes for the large chunk of the start of YouTube. And so it was for short-length content. It wasn't for, so you wouldn't upload an entire 30 minute episode of The Daily Show or something. You wouldn't upload an entire two hour movie. One, we didn't allow it. And two, we didn't want the platform to be seen as that. It was still for short pieces of content that was uploaded to the site. So when it came to actually working with these content creators, we branded YouTube as a way to be able to market your longer form content. So it was just maybe seen as a place, a platform to show movie trailers for your movie, but you wouldn't actually upload the entire movie onto YouTube. I think that's gradually evolved and changed over a period of time as higher quanlity content has become possible. A bandwidth of 30 getting cheaper, people are more accustomed to watching this content on multiple devices now that YouTube actually offers and caters to watching the same content on multiple devices at one time. But at the time during 2005 all the way throughout 2007 it was always sort of short form content, it wasn't the same quality. And it was a way to be able to get more people that would have not heard your music or would've not heard your movie be able to use the two minute length to be able to showcase whatever it is that you wanted to show. Now given your own app or using Embarkment for example, what would be some good partnerships? Now obviously don't choose the ones that we listed before, but who will help you promote your app? List your three potential partners here. And let us know why you chose them in these boxes Remember to think about touch points when thinking about partnerships. What are the touch points you have with your customers? When is it that you're going to be in contact with your customers? You're going to need to use your deep understanding of your customers to help you figure this out. Think about their lifestyle or other general information you have about them. Now for us with The Bark Vet, we know that our customers need us when they travel and obviously when they're looking for dog sitters. So traveling and being out of town are good touch points for us. So we need to look at partnerships related to travel. This could be vacations or business travel, travel by plane, travel by train, travel by car or booking hotels and other accommodations. These are all potential touchpoints with our customers. So, for our Landing Page Content, we're going to need to show a clear value proposition that interests people. Let's break this down. Think about what problems you're solving for them. Now, you should already know this after going through value proposition in lesson one. Our main value for Obarkment is our quality. So, the quality in this sitter and the quality in the location your dog will be staying. With a high end dog sitting service. You also need a notification form or call to action. It needs to be really obvious where call to action is or where the notification form is. It has to be clear and simple where they can subscribe, give their email, or download your app. Users can get connected with your app in many different ways, from recommendations from family, friends, or colleagues, searching an app store, or using a search engine. Research done by Google and found that about 52% of app users surveyed found new apps through family, friends, and colleagues. 40% through just browsing an app store, and 25% through search engines. So, you can think beyond just the app store to get your app out there. You're going to want to get family, friends, and colleagues talking about your app and sharing it. So there are a ton of different distribution channels to give your users access to your app. But what's right for your business? Now here are some ideas to kind of get you started. You could consider having your app preloaded into a phone. No, I'm sorry, Apple and Samsung probably aren't going to come beating down your door just to load your app on their phones. But you can pay for it. Pay a lot that is, it's pretty expensive. Your app will be preloaded onto a specific mobile device and people will just be exposed to it. And their more likely to actually use it. So the conversion rate for these preloaded apps is significantly higher than average. You can optimize your own website, make sure to have a widget that can be pasted on to a mobile website or Facebook pages for example that will take your users directly to your app. Or, you could create a mobile web version of your app. Now creating a mobile web version coded in HTML5 is a great way to enable wide distribution outside of just the smartphone audience. Also, people can engage with your product before they commit to downloading it, which is a much higher commitment on their end. And don't forget about the marketing workhorse, email. You can also consider just emailing links to your app to your users. We'll go over many more options later in the course, but I want you to get started thinking about these things. Start getting creative, because when it comes to marketing ideas, sky's the limit. Okay, so now we've done some research so we can finalize our marketing plans. >From lesson one we already know our audience is dog owners who travel. We've chosen a persona to focus on, we completed our competitive analysis and our value proposition so we know how to position ourselves in the market. And now we know our distribution plan and the keywords we're planning on using. We've done a great job so far, and now we're ready to move on to actually creating the materials we're going to need for launch. First, we'll need to create our landing page, create our app store listing, and then do some beta testing. Okay, so let's start getting our hands dirty in creating our customer facing marketing materials. Step one is to create our landing page. >From a marketing perspective, a landing page is a stand alone web page that in the beginning can serve as our website. It has a specific objective and usually limited options for visitors. In the early stages of your business, you might want to use just a landing page rather than a full website. To generate interest in your product and to collect contact information from potential users before you put a lot of effort in a full website. This is when we really get to figure out and test our messaging. We can track the reaction and behavior of people to our messaging, sometimes by having two or three different versions and running an A/B test. We'll talk more about A/B testing in lesson five. One of the cool things about your landing page is that it can help you validate your idea. You can build out links to potential features. And depending on the number of clicks it gets, you can decide if that feature is worth investing resources and developing. On aBARKment, if we added a link to cat sitting and no one clicked on it, we would know not to build out this feature. Given that we are a startup with a limited team and budget, this method can be game changing. Some startups would prefer to launch their landing page before their product is even viable. So they can measure traffic or start collecting email addresses of interested users. Once you have a basic product or MVP, minimum viable product, you can use your landing page to measure conversions. There are nice free tools out there to simply build your own landing page. We used InVision. For a refresher of how to use InVision, go back to our prototyping course. When thinking about creating your landing page, you should answer a few questions for your customers. Let's cover those now. Beta testing allows you to assure the equality of your app, by having real users actually use it. As a startup without a quality assurance team, it's great to build a community of beta testers that can give you the feedback you're looking for. Let's hear from Amir Shavat about what a beta testing community is, and how to create them. Amir's had a chance to start some developer communities on behalf of Google and is also the instructor of Udacity's product course. Beta Testing communities give you insights you may miss about bugs in your app or ways to improve your app that you haven't thought of. Now choosing your beta testing community members or audience is really important. There are a few things you need to consider. They must be representative of the actual users that'll be using your app when it launches. For aBARKment, we should actually find people who are dog owners, and who are willing to let their dogs go stay with a sitter. They also have to be unbiased. They can't have predetermined notions about how they feel about the app before experiencing it. And of course, they must be willing to give feedback and share their thoughts. It'll be of no help to you if the beta testers don't actually talk about their experience. The members of this community should want to be a part of the experience early on, and really want to be a part of the creation and improvement of your app. Through beta testing, you're going to have the opportunity to learn a lot of things. Such as, does your app even do what should do? Does your app crash or does it have bugs? Is your app too slow? What do users think about your app? How does your app look or work on different types of devices? And so much more. So you'll need to think about how you want to interact with your beta testing community, because it isn't only important for them to be unbiased about the product, you also need to be unbiased. So how should you gather this information from your beta testing community. Let's talk to Amir about that. So first of all I don't think you need to ask questions. You need to observe behavior. One of the key with beta testing is that you get a lot of the data, and rather than asking the questions, you see how people behave with the app. And that's super important. Second, if you must ask questions, you need to be very, very sure that these are unbiased. Like, asking things like, is this a great app? Will probably yield, yes this is a great app. Although it might not be a great app, right? Or, are you using it every day for sure, will probably be a bad question. So try to not prime the right answer, your right answer. So ask a question in a very unbiased way. So here are a few things you should remember when interacting with your beta testing community. Observe behavior first. You don't always need to ask questions. You can just observe the behavior. But when you do, be unbiased. Don't ask leading questions to allow the users to give room for honest response. For more information on developing questions for beta testing or surveys in general, check out the article in the instructor notes. Another option is to create open beta rather than a user testing community. Google has a tool called Open beta. You don't need to create a community with this option to run your test. You'll use Open beta when you want any user with a link to your app to be able to join your beta test with just one click. One of the major advantages with open beta, it allows you to scale a large number of testers. However, you can still limit the maximum number of users you want to join your beta test. And finally, don't forget, you need a collect data somehow. As Amir said, beta testing without collecting data is pointless. You can set up a free Google Analytics account to attach to your app. It'll be able to track user behavior, and provide you with reports on data you're collecting, so that you can make data driven decisions. We'll dive deeper into Google Analytics later on. Once your launch page is ready to go, you'll have a few options for where to list your app. Like the Google play store, the IOS app store or even the Chrome web store. You can develop your app to be compatible with all the different app stores out there, but before you work too hard, you may want to start with focusing on the best app store for your needs. Now think about your audience and what they're more likely to use. Read the market share research to validate your assumption. Now if you focus on a specific region, you can easily find out which operating system dominates that market, and you can develop your app accordingly. Our example here will be how to launch on the Android Play Store since Android dominates the global market. Each stores has its own methods and requirements to launching. These things change over time, so the best thing for you to do is check out their documentation. We've linked to various stores in the instructor notes. In the long term, you don't don't need to choose one app store over another, if you have an app that fits many different platforms. That way you can reach more customers. But focusing on one first can help you validate and perfect your idea before expanding to another platform. One thing you may consider is reaching out to other markets. There are vastly growing markets out there that maybe a great opportunity for you to expand. This is called Localizing Your App, localizing your app can maximize your distribution potential resulting in users and ratings from around the world. Now if you do this there are a few things you need to consider above and beyond just translating your app into different languages. Check out the localization checklist and the instructor notes if you want to learn more. Now that you have your plan in place and you've gone through all the preparations from exploring keyword performance, thinking about different distribution channels, and creating a landing page and app page, you're ready for launch. But this is still the beginning. We'll be iterating on our marketing plan as we learn more through launching our product and getting our first users, which is exactly what you'll be doing next lesson. See you there. Welcome to lesson three! We've covered marketing research and positioning, and then went through the most important things to do before you launch your product. Now, we are ready to talk about the launch itself. In this lesson, we'll cover the launch process, tips to get your app discovered, and how to gain traction and build your first user base. Now this will include engaging with users through views, growth hacking tips, and other things you can do with a small budget, like how to gain media attention, or just a taste of social media efforts. So let's kick it off with discussing the launch process. There are a few major steps in a launch checklist. Creating your basic website, or even just the landing page, which you should have already done or updated in lesson two. Creating you social media pages, Facebook, Twitter, Google Plus, LinkedIn, Instagram, or whatever makes sense for your audience behavior. Getting some media attention, whether you do it with a PR firm or do it yourself. Creating a press kit that you'll use to share with the press. And starting to build your user base. And you'll be doing that by using promo offers, and being active in the relevant groups and events. So let's look at these more closely. Things to think about for your social media page are making sure you follow the guidelines for each platform. Make sure you have all the things like a cover photo, a profile photo, and a description. And make sure that you have a tone of voice for your brand and you're sticking to it. You want your company to have a voice and a personality that's recognizable by your customers. Because you already know your market segment or your persona, you'll know how to communicate with them. Now, if it's relevant to your audience, try to be a little bit light hearted and delight your user in a funny way. Make users smile from the way you communicate with them. MailChimp lets you have a little bit of fun when you're setting up your account. If you try to choose a username that already exists, they say, maybe it's your evil twin, spooky. You kind of get their personality through that and it's delightful and it will make you smile if you notice it. Check out readme, when you're about to put in your password the little owl covers up his eyes, it's a cute little extra touch. Once you have your basic setup and your unique tone of voice, all you have to do is simply find the secret sauce to make your content go viral. Easy, right? Well, no, it's actually the most challenging thing with social media. It's really hard to predict what your audience will share, and what they're really going to engage with. Hopefully, you'll measure everything you do and be able to learn from it. If your app is great, users will spread the word for you. You should make it easy for users to share by adding a social feature to your app. Google recently launched app invites which will allow your users to easily share your app with their contacts. App invites will recommend your users their closest contacts to share your app with and give them an easy to download link right in email or text message. You see this a lot with game apps, where your users are given an image to share on Twitter with their highest score or their ranking in the game. You can also see this in shopping apps when they recommend that you post what you just bought to Facebook. Let's get an expert's advice on social media. My name is Noam Schwartz. I'm from Similar Web. Similar Web is a web company that helps marketers grow and win in the online marketing world. We basically solve the major problem of understanding what your competitors are doing in digital world, what's working for them, what's not working for them how do they go? What people are doing on their website and the mobile app? And we working with Fortune 500 companies, with startups. We really love to help people grow and win in digital world. Before joining Similar Web, I was CEO of a company called Tap Blog. We were actually competing with Similar Web and then Similar Web acquired us. I became head of innovation and head of US operations for Similar Web, and since then, I'm working with a lot of companies, advising them about their marketing strategy, about how to win and how to grow, and having a lot of fun. When you're starting with social media, you've gotta have a goal in mind. What exactly are you trying to do? Don't just try to do social media for the sake of it, because you want to get more users, you want to get them to buy something, you want to retain them, you want to remind them that your there. You want to promote an event, what do you want to do? Then after you decide what you want to do, you need to be associate it with the content that your creating. And I can't stress it enough how important it is to correlate your voice, the content, and the actual platform. So let's say that you're a small startup that is trying to sell clothing. Does it make sense to you to be present on LinkedIn, and keep updating there? The medium sometimes is more important than the actual message. One other thing is localization. Let's say that you have a huge user base in Brazil or in China or in India or in Russia. There are specific social networks that exist there and they are more popular the Facebook. You want to have presence there because you can acquire a lot of users from there. Obviously you need to use the language that they speak in those countries. But the ROI on using those social networks can be amazingly high. Another thing is to treat web sites like Stack Overflow, or GitHub, or even Reddit like social network because if you have a presence there that you keep maintaining and you keep posting interesting stuff, you're educating or entertaining you users. People will keep exploring who is this user, who is the president, who is the company behind this amazing social present? And you'll get even more value for your money, for your efforts than you will get on Twitter, on Facebook or or wherever you're being present today. One of the most important things when you're doing your content marketing strategy is first of all, don't look at the processes creating content or creating inventory. That's a recipe for failure, because you don't want just to create content for the sake of it. You want to create stuff that people will actually like. And the best way to do something like that is to try to imitate the way a newspaper works. You want to get interesting content. Something that will keep people intrigued. Something that people would like to read. And then produce it. Don't measure your content creators based on number of folds. Measure them based on the engagement that they can create after they published their content. And not all the will get the same thing, the same number of likes, clicks, whatever you would like to measure it with. But eventually, that's the best steady way to measure the success of the content marketing strategy. Another example of great content marketing strategy is Buffer, for example. Buffer is a B2C2B company basically that gives you the ability to schedule your Tweets, your Facebook updates, and schedule your for sure activity. And their blog, which is one of the most popular blogs in tech, has nothing to do with their product. It has nothing to do with productivity, with being transparent with your employees, with being a better person. And people that don't even know that they have a company, that they have a product, keep following this blog. And this works amazingly. One of the things that we do at Similar Web and we did in [INAUDIBLE] is following the activity of companies. Following what's going on on the internet. And the best way to understand what you want to write about, what kind of content you want to create. Just checking it out. So, one of the things that we do at Similar Web, really to create content that engage people is to track the trends that are currently happening on the internet. If it's the Sony breach, or if it's Netflix, what people are watching on Netflix today, new products, new investments. The Pope's visit to New York, whatever! And we write blog posts about it, we create content about it, because we see what people care about. And then if people see the content we create and they want to share it, because they want to feel smarter, because they want to educate their friends or they want to entertain them that's a huge win with every locals like that. Let's imagine if we really start a we need to be scrappy. We need to not use a lot of resources and get a lot of traction, a lot of, we need huge ROI's. So, we invest a lot of time in creating the content and crafting it. But that investment in understanding what people care about, understanding the specific medium, the specific timing and the specific context that we're going to release this content is everything for us. Another example is. Before they sold and also after, they have an amazing blog. They are the best in entertaining people. I think the blog is called Sriracha Tales or something like that, and they are using it for rants about food, and just bragging about new stuff that they did. And they entertain their users in such a way that you feel better when you're sharing some of the content. This is amazing. Press can help you achieve your goals quickly. You'll want to have writers and tech magazines mentioning you to help spread the word about your products. If you can, getting a tweet, a public donation, or a mention from a relevent celebrity or peer leader who supports your product can be a huge help. Working with a peer firm can be expensive, but might be worth considering. If you have a big bang launch, like a KickStarter campaign or any other specific launch date that you want to create a big buzz around. PR firms can help you get big names supporters or celebrities to promote your business. However, if it's too early for your start up to spend budget on PR, you can always do it yourself. If you choose to do it yourself, you will want to start by writing a paragraph that you like writers to write, if you could have them write whatever you want. This will help you clearly identify how you want your company to be presented in the press. Check out the instructor notes for for an article on tips on how to do this. And lets see what Tali Saar has to say about PR in the early stages of a start up. Hi, I'm Tali Saar, I'm the founder and CEO of Rooster. Before starting Rooster, I spent four years at Google. I was on the marketing team and I was part of the founding team that started a program called Google Engage, which developed today into Google Partners, which is a global program. I left Google, I came to Silicon Valley, and I was first employee for a start up called Honey Book. And then I started my company Rooster a year and a half ago. Rooster is a pay it forward movement. We're building a local network that brings people together to help, borrow, and share with one another completely for free in their local communities. So the idea is you join Rooster in your location, and you create a profile, you have your real identity there, and then the rules are you can ask for whatever you need and help whenever you can, but it has to be for free. So people use it to hand down used furniture and items they don't need, like sofas, TVs, art supplies. They borrow baseball bats and baby cribs from one another, they walk each other's dogs, they help each other fix their bike chains and things like that. We're currently launched in three cities with thousands of users, and a lot of them use it daily and meet each other, and have all these great experiences. Starting with PR with low budget. It's funny a lot of start ups operate under the assumption that doing PR is this really complicated thing, and you have to build personal connections with all the reporters, and you have to be in the scene so that they'll want to write about you. In my experience, not true at all. PR and journalists, their job is to get these stories. And all you need to do is understand their world and where they're coming from and know how to pitch them, and have an interesting story to tell, right? So you want to have a product that's interesting enough, you want to have some kind traction, or some kind of story, something that you know, can make a news story and you'll know when you have it. And then you just want to be very thoughtful of the journalists' time. So you want to research who your journalists are that cover your space that will potentially be interested in this. Don't go and pitch a thousand irrelevant people. And once you have those people, just write in a very clear and concise way and just consider that they're getting hundreds of emails per day and you have to grab their attention first, right? So just write a very compelling title, write a very clear and concise pitch about why this would be interesting to them and just go and do it. Go and reach out to all these people, and in my experience, I got great stories in local press and in the tech countries of the world, and everywhere I wanted just by giving the right person the right story. As Tali said, you don't need a lot of money to get media attention. But like other things with startups, when you spend less money, you'll have to work harder yourself to make things happen. A best practice to get prepared for media coverage is to have your own press kit. The press kit holds all of the things you want to share with the press when they cover your story. You're going to want to make sure your press kit has quality assets. This is simply an information packet about your business or your product with images, screenshots, icons, and other media you want to share. You should include general information about your startup, your product, and your team. You should also include high resolution files with your logo, icons, screenshots of your app, and other marketing images such as people using and enjoying your app. The goal here is to make your product shine. So include whatever does that. You could also include a picture of your team, especially if it's an A+ team you want to brag about. Check out the instructor notes for additional examples of press kits. There are many ways to gain users but in the beginning a promotional offer or incentives are great tools. There are many different types of promotional offers you can use to attract new users. If you have an app that people need to pay for, you can offer a free trial to it. If it's a free app you can offer a premium version. For example with abarkment we offer the app for free but, maybe we can give them their first booking without any fees. There's so many options. You could host a give away for a service or a product related to your app. You can offer discounts to products or services you offer. You can give away bonus points that they could use for something else on your site. You can even come up with a special offer for referring someone new. You and a friend, $10 off your next order. The bottom line is you want to get people excited enough about the offer so they share it. And once your promotion is on social channels or in a press release, it's more likely to go viral and attract more users to your app. Now it's really wise to track your promotions that you're offering. That way you can figure out what promotions work the best and give you the most return on investment. You can use this by tracking a discount code people use. Or using something like Google Analytics to track traffic to your site after you release a promotion. We're going to cover Analytics more in lesson five, but we want to get you in the mindset of measuring everything you can. That way, you can make future decisions based on your results. Now let's see what Noam has to say about promotional offers and incentives to gain users. So as a startup, when you want to implement an incentive plan into your marketing plan, what do you need to do? So first of all, like everything, it has to make sense. Your offering should be part of your product, which means that your offering should make sense to you and you need to encourage something that you want your users to do. You want the offering to be precise for your users, is something that offer money. It doesn't have to be money, it can also be virtual coins. Let's say that I'm promoting a virtual game, and if you're going to invite your friends. I'm going to give you 50 coins. Okay. I don't care about it, but my users care about it, and they will eventually, hopefully pay for it. So they think this is a good thing. So a few examples about how to create great promotional plans. First of all PayPal, they probably created the first and most famous promotional plans for start ups. They basically paid the users to open an account and invite someone else. Thinking the target was if you open an account you get ten bucks into your account, do whatever you want with it. If you're inviting someone else, you're getting ten bucks and he's getting ten bucks. And that helped them to go to about 100 million users in a very fast way. They obviously didn't pay so much money for so many people, they reduced it gradually from five bucks to one buck, eventually to nothing. But that really helped them go significantly. Another example that people may know even better is the Dropbox example. They gave a lot of storage to their users who invite other peoples so you could get a free account basically of up to 12 gigs of free storage room. Back in the day. Back in the day was like three years ago, four years ago. That was a lot to get. Today, I have like two tera and I'm paying ten bucks. But that was huge and people was competing each other. Who will get to their friends faster, know to invite them and make sure that they will accept the invitation. And both examples the people in DropBox makes perfect sense. People, it's all about the money, you're getting the money in your account, you can do whatever you want with it. And you can use it to buy on eBay for example, that was the best source of growth back in the day. And for Dropbox. We're a storage company. You're getting free storage. Invite your friends. That had them grow to so many users, and people are still trying to imitate those promotional trends. Another example is Zynga. When you're inviting your friends, you're getting virtual currency for to see the games that they're promoting. Not only Zynga, obviously, everybody who creates games that has some kind of virtual currency in it, let's you do that. And by earning that virtual currency, by earning those things that you want in order to pursue your dreams, they can encourage this behavior. Another example is Lyft. Lyft is competing with Uber in many geographies throughout the US and throughout the world. And Lyft wants to get more market share, how can they do that? One of the strategies is to pay you to ride with them. So let's say I want to get from point A to point B in Manhattan and this is a ride that will cost me with Uber 20 bucks, with a yellow cab, 15 bucks. Lyft will give you money to ride with them so it will cost you five bucks, or six bucks. In this way, they can encourage the behavior that they want to encourage, that forming a habit, if you associated Lyft with taking a cab by encouraging you and giving you money to use them. One major thing that you need to be very cautious about when you're doing incentive problem is making sure that your lifetime value, your LTV, is higher than your customer acquisition cost, your CAC. A lot of companies tend to exaggerate with acquiring users, focusing on growth, which is obviously the most important thing for an early stage startup. As you grow, as you become more and more successful, people take advantage of that. The math doesn't make sense anymore. It was working for paper. But as you're growing more and more users, you don't want to do it anymore because you want to encourage them to actually pay for that data. You don't want to make them dependent on your specific dynamics and mechanics for earning virtual currency. That can be something very dangerous for a startup, to be dependent on the incentive plan. And are focusing on keeping the users engaged further the dynamics of the product itself. One more thing is that incentives can only enhance the quality of your product. It will not replace anything, so if your product is great, the thing that you're doing with incentives is encourage what you hope that your users will be doing, that's the final push, that's not the main thing. You push them to share, you push them to activate, you push them to use it one time because you know that once they use it for that one time they'll be hooked, but it won't replace that product. It won't replace that user position structure. Okay so now that we've gone over the general checklist for launch let's explore ways to get your app noticed. Now let's help our users find our app and get some organic traffic for free. We can do this by search engine optimization, or SEO for short. We can also do the same thing in the App Store, which is called App Store optimization, ASO. How does it work? The search engine uses an algorithm that scans all of the information on the web and for app stores, the algorithm scans all of the information in all listings of the App Store. The algorithm will decide what is the most relevant based on the content of your site and the most relevant sites and apps will appear at the top of the results but under the paid ads of course. Let's talk about some of the techniques you can use for SEO and ASO. In the past, people used to find tricks and detours to make Google search engine think that they should be ranked at the top of the page. But the algorithm just became smarter than us, and it understands when people try to do evil. Tricks like writing your top key words in white in the background of your page just don't work anymore, but nice try. That being said there are still things that you can do to help your SEO. Your best choice is to make sure your website is relevant to the key words that you're trying to promote. If your keyword is pet sitting you really want to make sure that people that are searching for pet sitting will find your website useful and will want to spend more time on your website. That being said, words matter. The search algorithm searches every single word on the web, including every word on your page so the words you put on the page matter. However, don't just pack your site with search terms. Because the algorithm is going to be able to tell if they're actually relevant to your site or not. And if it's actually useful to the person doing the searching. So if it's not, the algorithm is going to end up working against you. You're going to want to make sure that you refresh your content so it's always up to date and staying alive. If you have quality, growing content on your site and growing links to your site, the better the search engine algorithm is going to rate you. On that note, what other people say matters. It's even better when other people say the great things about your website that you would like to say yourself. For example, if on the first page of TechCrunch they say that Abarkment is the best pet sitting app, with a link to our site, that makes us look really good, because they're validating that, well, we're awesome. So this will help our SEO. However, don't forget that the algorithm is smart. If you try to just buy links to your site. That aren't actually relevant, the search engine is going to know. The more trustworthy your site is, the higher the algorithm rates you. The title of your page or the meta data on your page also matter. Now, this isn't visible to users, it's actually hidden in your code base. But it matters because it's used as a suggestion for the title in the Google search results. This is where you're going to want to describe your business in an informative and concise phrase. This is also true for your domain name. It needs to be easy to read and easy to understand. And finally, don't leave your images hanging. People often forget to optimize their images. You're going to want to give your images a short, descriptive file name, and in the alt attribute, describe what the image is. And don't forget to add a caption for each image. Your caption should also contain your keywords. So how to be successful with SCO. The first thing that we need to remember is first of all not to overdo it and not to underestimate it. Back in the day you could make a lot of money with SCO just by exchanging links and optimizing for specific keywords on your website. That was amazing. That was the gold rush of SCO. But that's not happening anymore. A lot of websites are getting slapped and a lot of people who made a lot of money are not making that money anymore. And they don't have a choice because what was working back then is not working anymore. And the best thing that you should remember with about SCO is that it's the most the relevancy of your offering to the audience. And when people are using search engines, they are basically asking questions. So if you'll think about it, if you're typing into the search engine, cheap clothes New York. We're basically asking a question, right? Where can I find cheap clothes in New York? Or what kind of cheap clothes can I find in New York? And so on and so forth. So you want your website to be ranked in the top. So you want to create some kind of answers to those questions. So if we are thinking also about what kind of content to create, so we need to entertain, or we need to educate. We need also to answer questions. One of the most important things is how to know which keyword we should invest on. There are so many keywords. People are arriving to our site using 50,000 different kinds of keywords. Some of them are even titles. So they were branded, that they were using our name, some of them were not. How can we know what to use? So there's a lot of ways, similarly is one of them that you can search for the keywords that are leading users to your competitors, the keywords that are leading users to the websites on mobile apps that you think are similar to yours. And you can start and finding those keywords, creating the list, and then you know what kind of content to create and what kind of questions you want to answer on. You want really to avoid nasty tricks, black header CO. This can be very gratifying in the beginning. You can get a lot of users, but you'll eventually get slapped. It happened in the past, it will happen in the future. One of the most important tips I can give what they saw is think like a search engine. You want to give signals to the search engine. If it's Play, if it's iTunes, if it's whatever search engine there is that you're app is relevant and useful. So for example anchor text. Anchor text is huge SEO. If you'll think about most of the, let's say, articles that we know in the Internet. Google Play, iTunes, Download, the anchor text has nothing to do with the actual app. We're losing SEO juice. We're losing ASO juice. Make sure that the anchor text has something to do with your app. The best closing app or a game that's worth downloading or a game about fish, whatever. Make sure that the anchor text makes sense. Also make sure to be that relevant. Make sure there's people that are not uninstalling your app immediately. On that note, another great technique to get users is paid campaigns. There's many ways to do it. There's many affiliate networks and there's a lot of display campaigns. But because one of the best signals that the app stores are getting is a lot of downloads, a lot of installs. Sometimes we want to invest in getting more paid downloads. Because that will eventually get you more organic downloads. Another thing is the comments. People that are giving bad reviews are giving them mostly for a reason. And mostly because they didn't get what they were expecting to get. So if you're using a name that makes sense. If the images that you're using actually elaborate and explain what this product is all about and is not some kind of illustration that has nothing to do with your website. If the description is accurate and describes exactly what you're going to get the metatext makes sense. Everything makes sense and correlates with your product, that's the best approach. So, ASO tricks. The best thing that you can do is optimize your web page. You can A/B test everything from the icon that is representing your app, to the description to the metatext to the images to video that you're using. You can optimize everything. Another thing is if you have something in the app store if you have an option to do something targeted, use it. If there's special display for tablets, do it. If you can translate, localization is so important. If you can use Portuguese for Brazilian, translate your app because that will be much better. Translate the images. Be professional. Invest time in creating the presentation because that's the only asset you can control. You can't control how people will react to your app but you can control about what they understand. You can test it. You can test it. You can iterate about it. You can iterate on it. And that's the best advice I can get. We all get feedback sometimes, and so does your app. Take these reviews seriously. They're a pretty clear view into the mind of your users. When you're developing your app you can be so close to it, that it can be hard to step back and see the forest for the trees. You might also be so in love with your app that you ignore some of the things that don't work so well. It's an easy pit to fall into. Now once you launch your app, listening to your reviews and feedback is a perfect opportunity to iterate and revise, so you can make your app even better than it was before. Use the feedback to improve the app, and make your user happy, because ratings are incredibly important. Highly rated apps generates significantly more in sales. Three and four star rated apps are nine times more successful than two and three star apps. And four and five star rated apps are four times more successful than three and four star rated apps. And don't forget to respond to your users feedback and reviews, this is going to help your users feel more engaged, and it's going to keep you connected to the most important person, the customer. It's good to find a community in anything big you do. Be part of the scene for your industry. Follow, and hopefully one day also be followed by, the right investors or competitors in your industry. Be active in relevant online groups and contribute to them when you can. These people are your support for improving and promoting your app. In terms of your image, framing yourself as a thought leader in the industry is a wonderful idea. You'll need to share your thoughts, if you want people to trust you as a thought leader. Consider running your own blog and sharing your knowledge. This process is not just about promoting your product left and around. It's also about becoming a trusted expert. For example, if your product is a bike desk, your blog can cover things beyond just the bike. Topics like cycling as a sport, either outdoor or indoor. This tells your followers that you know what you're talking about when it comes to cycling. You can write about fitness in general or healthy habits to show that I can trust you to give me lifestyle advice, including just being active at my own desk. Consider publishing ongoing pieces of content, to highlight your professionalism in the industry and promote your online visibility. This will help both your SEO and your social presence. Some of the most useful groups, I would say, are groups that are really really targeted to use on part of this five person group, of people who are in the share economy, like budding entrepreneurs in the share economy. And then you can really have the conversation you want to have, right? So those have worked better for me than just on-line forums or these big communities. I want you take a few minutes to explore on-line groups that you'd like to be active in. Start thinking about what it means to really become a thought leader in the field. And think about your plan to get there. When you're ready, write two blog titles that you'd like to write in the blanks below. After you've come up with your titles, go to the forums and outline what these blog posts will cover and then you'll have an opportunity to get feedback from some of your peers in the course. Now I know we're in the technology age but I don't want you to forget about offline groups and events. They're great ways to expand your user base and to improve your branding or if you do it right, generate some PR. As for industry events, you can have a booth at a relevant conference. You could be active in meetups. You could even host relevant events. Now, if you have the resources, hosting events is a great thing for a few different reasons. One, it can help you attract talent to join your team. Or it can help you find writers to feature you in an article. If you're a business to business or B2B company, hosting events in a topic that attracts your potential customers is also a great way to gain users. So, the way I think about industry events are, I wanted to use these events as an opportunity to meet potential users. So when I was just starting out, I was looking to meet people who are into sharing. So, I went to meetups that are around recycling and sharing and things like that. Just so I can talk to people and tell them, hey look this is what I want to build, what do you think about it? Would you use something like that? And those have been really, really useful. The other type of industry events are just those events where you go to mingle and meet other entrepreneurs and investors, and just kind of network. I went to some of those. I have to say that after attending a few, I just completely stopped going and realized this is not my way to network. And I should be getting work done and getting the traction with my product, and then meet the right people who see that this is working and it's interesting for them. In order to get noticed, in events or anywhere, if you're networking. You need to do something that people care about, that people would want to interact with. So, even if it's a very serious trade show with a lot of people with the suits that are looking for specific things. If you're going to be fun and open and engaging, people are going to notice you. I saw people walking around with comedians that are giving them, if you talk of me, I will tell you a joke. Or, we're doing a paintable party later. Or we're offering a yoga class in the morning. Do you want to sign up? Stuff like that, that people are not expecting to get in conferences. People are not expecting to get in those places, this can really make a change. As an exercise, I want you to take this time to explore some upcoming events in your area that are relevant to your business and map them out. Pretend money and time aren't constraints. Throughout this lesson and the last, we've discussed many ways to help you find and connect with your audience. Because the most challenging time for a new company is when you start growing your user base. There are many tips out there to gain your first thousand users and beyond. Your first real users are critical. These are people who aren't just your friends and family that are testing out your app. You want to pay attention to what the real people are saying about your app, and how they're rating it. Now think about it from a user's point of view for a second. Not many people are going to want to download an app with only ten downloads. So you'll need to show new users that your app actually means something to the people who are actually using it, and who are enjoying it. Now, let's go back to our entrepreneurs to learn a few more tips about growing your user base and hearing about the real world experience creating companies that started just like yours is today. So getting your first users, it's really important, right? And you just have to do everything and anything that comes to mind and whatever you think will work. So in our case, we put up this landing page and I started emailing my friends. And when they started using it and were stories about sharing and people were helping one another out, the moment we got these first stories off, someone was able to borrow something, borrow a bike from a friend. And someone was able to find a language exchange, an English to Chinese language exchange. When we got those stories, I knew that those are really heart warming, so I just went to the local press in Palo Alto, to Palo Alto Online and Palo Alto Weekly. And like, look, this is happening, it's really local, and look at all these amazing stories. And I was able to get a story out. So, that brought another few hundreds of people, and my friends invited their friends. We tried things that are totally not scalable. Like we printed postcards and we went and put them in people's houses and door hangers. Just anything to get those first few hundreds of users and to prove to yourself, that they want it and they'll use it. To start your first user base, just figure out where your users hang out, where they do it. Is it offline? Is it online? If it's online, that's great, maybe there's a forum where they all just hang out. Maybe it's all the moms forum. Maybe it's the small business forum. Maybe it's the accounting forum. Whatever your space is, figure that out and go there and be active. And approach them and tell them, here's my thing, I just started it, will you check it out? A lot of startups do that in places like Hacker News, and Reddit, and those are their type of communities, but maybe it's a different type of community for you. So just go there, put it out there, just be very authentic about who you are, don't try to advertise. Just say look, this is who I am, I've started this startup, I think it can be useful for you, and I'd appreciate your feedback, go sign up. I think people will respond to that, better than if you try to post something very pompous about, I'm changing the world and you should all be on this, because you really haven't yet. So just be authentic. Common mistakes, I see. Start ups, I don't do or kind of like, a misconception that they have, is that marketing is something you can hire for, right? You build your product and you get the marketing person and they will just make the product grow. And, actually marketing is inside the product. It's a core part of it. And marketing is the language that you use in your product, it's the flows you have in your product, it's the social elements you have in your product. It's the incentives you give people, to invite others to your product. So, marketing, the product person should be a marketing person. Or the marketing person you hire should be there from the get-go and help define the product. When you're just starting out and you don't have a budget, don't think about how you can grow, grow, grow to millions and millions and millions. Just think about how you can experiment and perform the largest number of experiments to see what will work. So kind of, take the pressure off, trying to get a million users tomorrow. And see how you can get two users, and get those two users to bring two more users. And if that experiment has been successful, and it's something that's replicable, then now, maybe you have something. So just think small, try a lot of things and figure out what works. So, to grow your user base from 0 to 1000, the first thing that I would do. The first thing that I did, actually, is understanding what makes my user tick. Where are they spending their time? What are they doing there? I mean what are the apps that they are using? What kind of website they're going to, what are they doing on those web sites and apps? Whats interesting for them? What are their habits? What are the social platforms that they are using? And start focusing on those places. You can't do everything. Everybody wants to do everything. You can do incentives and the SCO and social and an offline presence. You need to know exactly what's working and what's not and double in what's working. So for example, let's assume that you are doing a keyword research for your SEO. But one of the by products that you're getting from keyword research is understanding your audience interests. What they care about, what are they asking Google, when they're trying to find something online? What kind of apps are they using? What are their habits? And when you're finding out what people care about, you can start to strategize your next plan. You can start understanding what you need to do. The important question is how we got from 0 to just 100,000 views a day, or 100,000 to 1 million views a day. How did we get from 0 videos uploaded to 100 videos uploaded, to 1,000 videos uploaded? And that was sort of the summer of 2005, we went out there to a lot of different forums out there and told people that, if you needed to use a method, a server, to be able to host your videos, use this as the free place, we don't charge storage fees. We don't charge any fees for you, as a host, to be able to upload your videos. Just upload the content and we'll do all the trans-coding, and we'll do all the bandwidth and we'll pay for all the bandwidth for you, for all the views that you want to use the site for. So, that was really what, I think in the beginning. But there was another part of it, was MySpace in 2005, was one of the largest users or largest sites out there, that utilized its ability to be able to host videos. And so, they themselves, didn't have a service to able to host videos. Their users were desperate for a way to be able to upload and share videos. And in comes YouTube with perfectly, every time you uploaded a video on to YouTube, there was this little snippet at the bottom, you barely have to scroll down at all. And here's a copy and paste and we can add this copy and paste HTML snippet on to everywhere. So, we allowed pretty much any site that allows HTML snippets. eBay, Craigslist, but MySpace was one of the big ones, where people were seeking out this solution and we provided the solution. I think the equivalence, as well as the differences between I think different companies, different startups, but key metrics and how do you actually get that. I think with YouTube it was about giving sort of almost free bandwidth out and accumulating more users, getting the brand name out there. For PayPal it was different, right? It was getting the people's trust and it was trying to get people, to see this as a way to make payments online. People were still back in that time, 1999, this was something they've never heard of and they were still kind of trying to feel out what the internet can do. So one thing that PayPal did early on was to be able to assign a very high value. I think that when we were looking at banks out there. And every customer, had a sort of a value of about $750. And so, when PayPal took a look at it and said well, if it only takes us $10 to get a new user, it's an investment that we're making that's very costly now, but the returns on it years from now will be very big. And so, it was a sign in for every new user that you would create, every new user account automatically gets $10 into their PayPal account, and they can start making payments. And then, to try to create that virality, to try to create more users and get you are automatically connected and comfortable with this idea of payment to payment service. It automatically gave you $10 for every new user, that you brought online. But, you can quickly see that, once you start getting your first 1000 users and they're actually getting another 10,000 users it starts accumulating very quickly, that you're actually just paying out all the funding that you're getting from VCs in checks to these people. But ultimately, it also created a network that people were comfortable with. Down the line people, it became harder and harder to get that $10, so initially it was, you would sign up for the account and confirm your email address, and here's the $10 in your account. Later on it became, you have to give us your credit card information. And then, even later on it was, you have to give us your ACH or banking account information and then you would get $10. And by that point, I think, if you're a new user that's actually giving credit card information, as well as your banking information, it's well worth the $10 to get that information. One of the questions that I get a lot from, sort of, new entrepreneurs where they give a talk, for example, and I get questions coming up afterwards. And, it's kind of this model of question which would be, I've this great idea. And two things, I think, one of them is, I've been thinking about it for a long time, but I don't know what the next step should be and I think the obvious is, why don't you start it? And it's like well, no I don't know if it's going to work, and I'm still working on something else at the time, and it's taking up a lot of my energy. But at the end of the day, I think behind every company there was that risk and there was the ability to say forget it for six months, three months, for a year I'm going to go without a salary. And without that sort of safety net and I'm going to take a chance, and I'm going to take some risk, to be able to see this through. But, without ever taking that risky first step, no company's ever been created. So, I think that's one of the key things there. I think, the second one is always this question that people come up and say, well, what do you think? They would pitch this idea and they would say, but one of the reasons why I'm not so ecstatic about starting this, is that I don't see this as a billion dollar company. And I have to say, I don't think that whenever one of these companies, whenever Facebook started, or PayPal, or YouTube started, we talked earlier, YouTube was a dating site. We didn't think YouTube was a billion dollar company. I think as long as, it's an idea that you believe in. As long as it's an idea that you see, either yourself or somebody, you can see and visualize the users behind the site, then create it because people will come. And it's going to be a question as to how many people will use this site. But I think that's more important, rather than trying to create something that you think is going to, rather than having to qualify that the actual start up idea with, is it going to be this billion dollar idea? I think it's more important to just say, is it creating a solution to a problem that I can see? It's hard to cover everything you need to do to launch an app in one lesson. But there are few main points want you to take away from this lesson. Your launch is one exciting day but actually you launch new things all the time you'll be irritating, experimenting on learning new things. You want to be ready with all the things for your launch but to be experimenting with new things once you do launch. Don't try to out smart the search engine or the reporters who you are trying to get to do press coverage for your app. Do what makes sense and do what's relevant for your users. Your much more likely to find success that way. And don't ignore user feedback or reviews. It's not only going to help you improve your product but it'll also help you optimize your app store performance. We look forward to seeing you next lesson when we talk about online marketing. Welcome back. In this lesson, we're going to go over online customer acquisition techniques. You can achieve many different goals with online advertising but we'll be focusing on customer acquisition rather than brand awareness, for example. So we're going to divide this lesson into two parts. Now in the first half, we're going to talk about paid tools to acquire new customers. Such as SEM, programmatic media buying, affiliate marketing, social media marketing, which includes video marketing. Then we'll go into free customer acquisition tools and talk about engaging with your community and inbound marketing including content generation and email marketing. So let's get started with some background information about the three engines of growth. The three engines of growth are ways to think about customer acquisition. The first one is the sticky engine of growth, where you're going to focus on bringing your customers back month after month. You really want them to stick with you. You're really focusing here on keeping customers with you, rather than acquiring new customers. So, this is the right engine to focus on, if your focused on retaining customers for the long term. The second engine of growth is the viral engine. This is usually heaven for entrepreneurs, where they get to the point where their customers are bringing in new customers. And their user base is just growing virally and organically. Now I wouldn't rely on this one, because it's really hard to actually get here. Your product is going to have to be incredible, and really fit your target market perfectly, otherwise it doesn't really work. So once you have a really awesome product, growth can be self sustaining, but it doesn't necessarily happen to everyone. And the third engine of growth is the paid engine of growth. Most start ups have to be familiar with this one. And most advertising channels fall into this engine. Now as long as you're making a profit on each customer, you can keep operating this engine. Your profit will allow you to invest more and more into advertising and help you sustain your growth. Now big companies will focus on more than one or even all of these engines. However, as a startup, we recommend that you focus on only one at a time. In this lesson in particular we'll be focusing on the paid engine for customer acquisition. If you're interested in learning more, we highly recommend checking out the book The Lean Startup. It describes these three engines as part of a whole lean startup approach, that helps entrepreneurs build fast growing companies, and encourages them to build, measure and learn on an ongoing basis. Check out the link to the book in the instructor notes. Okay, so let's dive into this paid engine of growth. When it comes to paid marketing, you're going to want to give it some extra thought, and consider a few things before going out there and paying to acquire new customers. After all, we are a start-up so we want to spend our money wisely. Now, if you want to make sure your growth is sustainable and your money is well spent, you want to keep in mind a few metrics. Starting with ARPU or your average revenue per customer, the LTV or lifetime value per customer, and the CPA cost per acquisition. Now, you want to think about how much money you're willing to spend per customer to get them in the door. So these are the things you need to consider to determine this. So there's your ARPU, your average revenue per user. So how much money are you going to make per given customer over a certain time frame? Knowing your ARPU and your retention rate, so how long you're keeping your customers with you can help you calculate your lifetime value or LTV. Your LTV is the amount of money you're likely to make from a given customer over the time that they're affiliated with your company. Okay, let's take the lifetime value of a gym member for example. So let's say the member spends $20 a month over three years on their membership. So that's $20 a month for 12 months for three years, giving you a total lifetime value of $720 for that one customer in total revenue, about $240 per year. Now, for startups who haven't acquired any customers yet, determining your LTV is nearly impossible to do. But since it's so helpful in helping you define your goals and setting a baseline, It's really worth an effort to at least estimate it based on the number of transactions a given customer will make over a month or even over a year. Okay, let's take a aBARKment for example. We charge $20 a month as a fee for sitters to be listed on our site. And every time they get a sitting job, we get 15% of what they're charging, which averages out to be around $15 per month. And most sitters stay with us for about 24 months, so this makes their lifetime value $840. Your LTV and average revenue per user is going to help drive how much you're willing to spend to get new customers. So, if our cost per acquisition is too close to our lifetime value or average revenue per user, then we're doing something wrong. However, if our cost per acquisition is $70 per sitter, we're profiting about $770 per sitter we have on our site. This should make our average revenue per user higher than how much it costs us to gain that user, which is really what your goal is. One thing I want to point out is you should be looking at your LTV or ARPU per segment. Think back to market segmentation about this. That way you can determine how much you could have paid to acquire different users from different segments. For example, if we decide to have our dog owners pay a $50 monthly fee, and then we get 15% of all of their bookings, which average out to about $22.50 a month and they stay with us for three years, we're looking at an LTV of $2,610. So we know we can spend more to gain dog owners, because their lifetime value is significantly higher than the lifetime value of dog sitters. Now, if your company has different subscriptions, you may see that people in one subscription group have a much lower lifetime value than somebody from another subscription group. That'll help you determine how much you want to spend on getting people into different subscription tiers. For example, if people in the lowest paying subscription don't stay with you as long, you're not going to want to spend as much to acquire them as a customer. However, if people in, say your platinum level stay with you for a long time and spend a ton of money with you, you can be willing to spend a little bit more to acquire that customer. Now having said that, our company is a marketplace. So in order to maintain this healthy marketplace We have to ensure both supply and demand. So sometimes we may need to spend more on sitters to sustain our supply or else the company would fail. Being a company the offers to babysit your dog without people to actually babysit the dog, it wouldn't work out too well. So these metrics are valid across online customer acquisition channels and they're just beginning. You can also consider conversions. So, how many people actually become customers, bounce rates for emails and even traffic from specific channels and much more. We'll talk more about a few of these during this lesson and the next. So let's hear from Talley about her advice on paid marketing. And then, we'll start talking about our first channel, SEM, or search engine marketing. So if you're going to go into the world of paid advertising, that's a huge world and there's so much to learn there. And if you're on a budget, the key is always targeting, targeting, targeting. So you need to figure out who your best user is. So if you're selling a software for businesses what kind of business is it? How big are they? How many employees do they have? In what vertical do they operate? Who's going to be that exact science that's going to make the most out of what I'm offering them? And you want to target those guys because you can't afford to spend money broadly. And once you have it, try it with a little bit just spend a little bit of money and see what you get and optimize, optimize, optimize. And then you'll potentially be able to get some clients that will use your product. When you do paid advertising what you really want to do is experiment, experiment, experiments. If you have 1,000 bucks, you want to run 100 experiments for $10 each. Try different language, try different imagery, try different types of targeting. What you really want to do with that kind of budget is not get as many users as possible, it's just learn, learn what works, learn what are the words? What are the things that will get people to sign up? And out of those 100 experiments you will see the one that works better and later on when you have budget you'll know how to spend it. So platforms that will work well for low budgets is an ever evolving thing, right? because new platforms keep coming up. And you kind of have to find the right platform that's right for your product. But I think marketers have to keep their eyes and ears open for what's the up and coming platform, and usually platforms that are new and that have just opened up. A couple of years ago YouTube, I don't know why they said they haven't used it in a while, but a couple years ago getting YouTube views, and targeting it down and getting the right people to view your video was really, really cheap, it was just a few cents for every video of view so that was YouTube. And it usually starts out when it's new that there's not a lot of competition. So if you're the first one there you'll get the cheapest prices. It was the same for Facebook app install ads. That was a brilliant format and Facebook started it a few years ago. And when it just came out, it was so cheap and you could take such advantage of that. And today, everybodys there so competition drives the prices up. So you kind of need to keep your eyes open for whats new and what you can take advantage of. We're going to use AdWords as an example to help you build the mindset around creating online campaigns while focusing on search engine marketing. Many of the things you need to consider when building AdWords campaigns are similar to what you do in creating any online campaign. Such as the structure, the target audience, tracking, measurement and more. AdWords works by having companies bid for keywords. When a potential customer searches a keyword in Google search, there is an auction behind the scenes that automatically resulted with the winner ads shown up at the top of the search results. Winners will be decided by a formula that takes into consideration both the relevance of the ad and the bid. So let's get started by building our AdWords campaign using Abarkment as an example. So I'm Andrea, I have been working at Google for about four years. Mostly the whole time been working with AdWords advertising customers. Supporting small, medium businesses as well as some of the Fortune 500 companies. And so, it's given me a lot of experience to work with all different advertisers and to see how AdWords can really be flexible for advertisers of all kinds, all different businesses, with all different goals. So Google is really great at serving as a platform for advertisers who want to drive app downloads. Specifically, I think Google Search is going to be the best first step for anyone who wants to promote their app. Google search is going to provide the opportunity for users to find your app, especially when they're looking for a product that your app can meet their needs. So for example, if a user is going to be searching for shopping apps, they're going to go to google.com, look for a best shopping app, and that's an opportunity where you can serve your add for those types of queries. Additionally, we've just opened up Google Play inventory so, when users are looking for apps within the Google Play Store, you can now show your ads within the results on Google Play. So again, if the user is looking for shopping or shopping apps or whatever it might be. They can search within Google Play and that will give you an opportunity to show your ads there as well. Depending on your experience with AdWords, setting up an app promotion campaign is similar to any other type of Google Search campaign. But, if you haven't used AdWords in the past, it's really easy to onboard. A user can sign up online without any support from Google specifically. So you can just go online and create an AdWords account but beyond that, you want to create a campaign specifically for app promotion. And that is an easy process. It just walks you through different steps for setting up your budget as well as your targeting and then you can enter in your ad creatives. So, when you set up your keyword lists, you want to remember to think about themes for your keyword set. So ideally, you separate a couple different ad groups with different themes for your keywords. You want to be as specific as possible and as relevant as possible to your product. So again, back to the shopping app, you want to have terms that would be related to a shopping app or best deals online or shop locally. Those are the type of terms you want to be thinking about and what's really the value of your product and then how do your key words match up to your product. So keep those as relevant as possible, and then also separate an ad group for your brand terms. So obviously you want to capture anyone who's searching for your brand. Or terms that are most similar to your brand. You want to make sure that anyone whose looking for you is able to easily find you. So those are the things you want to be thinking about with keywords. You want to make sure they're just really relevant to your product, to your business. And that they're going to capture users when they're searching and trying to find a product like yours. AdWords is great for small advertisers, for startups. It's really a platform that allows small advertisers to compete in the big leagues as well, because it really does come down to the quality of your product and the value proposition of your business. So, as long as you can really communicate that in your ads and figure out the keywords that work best for your business, then those are the auctions that you really could see yourself perform and outdo any of the competitors. So that does take some testing in figuring out which keywords are best for your business. You want to stray away from some of the really expensive terms or really broad terms. So if I'm selling shoes, I don't want to bid on terms like shoes or women's shoes. That's going to be really broad and that's going to be really expensive. And those are the types of terms that you might see some of those big companies. They can afford to to be showing ads for those really broad terms. But you want to think, what is your product do best? How can you be as specific as possible to capture the users that are looking for something that you can provide? So for example, if user is specifically looking for a certain type of shoe that you sell. That's what you want, your keyword and your ad to convey. So, I think that's what's great about AdWords is that, it is an auction and it does create a level playing field where you can decide which terms do you really care about? Those are the terms that you're willing to bid on and pay per click. And if you can communicate that within your ad and drive them to the best landing page that you can offer a user, then I think you have a really good chance of those ads delivering for you. So one advantage to Google AdWords is with Android users, we actually don't need to set up any additional tracking. So we do have a code list tracking, and that's just because Google owns the Android platform. So we're able to know when users download the app. You can see when a user actually clicked on your ad and then when they actually downloaded the app, all within AdWords. Now, as far as iOS and tracking that, that's where you need an additional tracking system outside of Google. So that's where you're going to have to research for a third-party SDKs. But yeah, there's a lot of great things that you can do to get started with AdWords that don't require a lot of additional technical integration or implementation. A lot of it is pretty much all there for you within AdWords. Setting up an AdWords campaign can be pretty simple. You start by creating your ad settings, then writing what your offer is in the ad. Next, choose the keywords you want people to use when they're searching for your ad. Then set your daily budget and bidding. Just those few steps, you're ready to go live. However, before you do this you're going to need to set up your overall account settings. Now when you're doing this, be sure to check out the instructions on how to do it. Once you set your country and your currency, you're unable to go back and change it. So after you complete your settings, you can make your ad campaign. Your ad campaign is built out by different ad groups. Each ad group has its own ad, keywords, and bids. And all these share the same budget, location targeting, timing, and settings. Different campaigns can help you organize categories of your products or your services that you offer. And when your starting the campaign, you're going to need to customize your settings. These settings include things like location, languages, bidding strategy, budget, ad extensions. Things like that. Google has a ton of documentation on each one of these settings that you could check out. There's a link in the instructor note for this. But don't worry, you can adjust your bid strategy or budgeting at any time. Actually, not only can you do this, you're really encouraged to do it, so that way you can optimize your campaign regularly, based on the performance of an ad group or even the individual ad and the keywords that you have. So once your keyword's in place, you can start creating your add group structure. So from the top level, you're going to start with your account, which is connected to your user name, email address, password, and billing info. You can have various campaigns under one account that are going to share the same general settings. And from there you can have ad groups nested under a simple campaign. We're going to title our first campaign customer acquisition promo offer because we're going to offer new members to a of 15% off coupon and later. We can set up different campaigns that are going to run at the same time to achieve different goals. So we may want to do brand awareness or a special campaign for the holidays or summer vacations based on the seasonality we noticed in Google Trends. The first ad group is going to be dog owners and the second ad group is going to be dog sitters. We've separated these out because we want different ads and different messaging for our different groups. Our dog sitters may want to hear about the extra income they're going to receive. On the other hand, our dog owners may want to hear about the luxury we offer, or the safe environment we're offering their dogs, while they're away. And from there, we're going to develop our ads and different keywords that are specific for each group. So I already created our account settings and created the campaign for customer acquisition: promo offer. And I started with our first ad group, dog owners, because one of our main goals was to increase traffic of dog owners 5% monthly for the next four months. You can see here in my AdWords account we have dog owners, which is under the customer acquisition promo offer campaign. So this is our first ad group. Then I want to create an ad, and we need to enter in a headline. Let's talk about this. For a headline, we're only going to have 25 characters to promote our product and service, so we really want to grab people's attention. And a good option here is to include the keywords you've chosen. We're going to use luxury dog sitting. Next we have our display URL. Were going to use abarkment.com. For the display URL, this is a web address that will appear on your ad. This URL must match the domain people will land on when they click on your ad. So if you want them to land on a specific page of your website, you can still just use your homepage like we did with aBARKment.com, as long as it's the same domain name. Okay, let's go back to AdWords. Next we're going to need to do our description line one and description line two. So let's talk about these. Description line one will be below the display URL, or it will be displayed as part of the headline. You have 35 characters to use when attracting your customers. Think about adding a call to action here. And don't forget sometimes the description line one and other parts of your ad can be seen along with your headline if AdWords thinks it's going to help you perform better. So don't just write this off. We're going to use get 15% off your first booking as our first description line. For description line two, the location of your ad dictates where description line two will be seen. Let's look at the example they show us. So we're going to use your dog deserves the best stay, and now we can see what the ad will look like if it's a top or bottom ad, or a side view ad. Now, I don't really like this top or bottom view ad without any punctuation, so I need to add that. Add a period here, and maybe get a little bit more excited about our 15% off offer. Okay, so that changes the layout of our ad. You can see the top and bottom ad, the description line one is now equal to the headline. And description line two is at the bottom all by itself. Now for a side ad, the description line one is the first line. And description line two is the second line. So you can play around with this to make sure you're happy with the way it looks and feels. And you can check out the sample ads that Google offers to get some inspiration. Now the fun part of this is you really don't have to kill yourself over finding the best creative ad or wording for each ad. Yeah, you want to put some thought into it, but each ad group is going to have a few different ads with a few different versions of wording. So you can launch your campaign and start tracking the performance of the different ads. This way, you'll be able to see which messaging drove the most clicks and had the most conversion rates on your site. And you can always just delete the least successful one. So we still need to fill in our final URL. Our final URL is the website people will reach when they click on your ad. So, this is your landing page. You're going to want to use a URL that best matches the ad that you're promoting. So for us, we're going to use a specific landing page for our 15% off promo, which is abarkment.com/welcome-promo. We can also see what our app will look like on different mobile devices. Depending on the settings, you chose for your ad group, if you have a mobile website you can add in your url for mobile. It'll just take them to the mobile version of your landing page. Here are few tips for creating a text campaign. First you really want to highlight what makes your company stand out. Why are you unique? Include prices, promotions, or other exclusives. People often do searches because they want to make a decision about something. Now if they're trying to decide what to do with their dog while they're away, let's help them make that choice. Don't forget a call to action. Tell a customer what they can do to get what you're offering. Like sign up today, book your first visit, things like that. Don't forget about your keywords. Be sure to include your keywords in your ad to show how relevant you are to their search. For example, if they're searching for earn extra income, our headline could be earn income by dog sitting. We're going to talk about keywords more later in the lesson. Your ad needs to match your landing page. You want to make sure that customers can easily find what they are looking for, and see the relevance of your ad. Also this relevancy will help you later with your SEO performance, it'll help influence your ad placement. Think about it from your customer's perspective. If they want to come to your site because you're offering a two month free subscription, don't make them look for it. Get them in and hooked right away. And finally experiment, run a few different ad groups and different types of ads. See which ones perform the best. You can track your messaging and figure out what ads are going to be best for you and your customers. Okay, now I want you to create your own campaign. Fill in the blanks below for an ad that you would run for your own company. So now that we have our text in place for our ad, we need to add our keywords. These are the foundation of your ad group. Your ad has a possibility of appearing in the top search results when people search these keywords. Google recommends starting with 10 to 20 keywords that are specific to phrases that your potential customers may use when searching for your product or service. Google also recommends avoiding 1 word keywords. Which if you think about it makes sense. Imagine if we use the keyword, dog. Think of everything that can be related to that. Dog health info, blogs about dogs, news articles relating to dogs. Videos of dogs, things on Animal Planet, buying a dog, cute dog pictures, hot dogs, being sick as a dog, getting a little hair of the dog, dog whistles, dog parks types of dogs, I could go on but I think you get the picture. Non of these have anything to do with dog sitting. To avoid that chaos you can use Google Trends Keyword Planner that we went over previously to help you choose the keyboards you want to use. So let's send in our keywords. After we've filled out our app, I'm going to scroll down to make keywords. We'll go with dog sitting, luxury dog sitting, dog care, pet sitting, pet care, home dog sitting, in home dog sitting, dog services, pet sitter, dog sitter, pet hotel, what to do with my dog while on vacation. And we can add more. Before we move on let's hear from Chris, a marketing expert about choosing keywords, and then Andrea, an ad words expert about figuring out our budget and bidding. So we'll be ready to launch our ad. My name's Chris Morel and I work in social media marketing and concept marketing for the last ten years or so for brands including FitBit, Clif Bar, Sony PlayStation, and now here at Edacity. When you're setting up your ad campaigns, it's really important to think about what keywords you're going to target. So if you're developing a fitness app, it might not make sense to target fitness as a keyword, because it's really competitive and might be really expensive. It might make sense to target a phrase like hit the gym, or go outside, or something that might get you a little better return, because the cost is low and it's a little less competitive with bigger brands. You have to get creative with keywords and ad terms. Five, six years ago, when these social channels were really getting off the ground, things weren't quite as expensive. It wasn't a lot of competition with big brands, but now everybody's advertising on social, so you have to start getting a little bit creative with the keywords and your campaigns to get better returns and to compete against people that might be advertising the same words as you. When we're thinking about acquiring new customers, we definitely want to make sure our key words are really targeted to your audience, so you want to keep them long-tailed too. If you start bidding on really broad terms, where we're thinking more father up in the buying cycle or the buying funnel, right? So you want to be capturing a user who's about ready to download an app, for example. So maybe, for example, it's a music app or music streaming app. You don't want to be targeting users who are looking for Taylor Swift or Taylor Swift music. That's going to be too broad, and most likely, they're not going to be as likely to convert or download that app. So you want to be thinking really specific, like music streaming app, or listen to Taylor Swift music on my phone, or Taylor Swift music app, something like that. So you want to get really down to those long tail terms when you're acquiring new users off search because you want to think about how people behave on search, both google.com and Google Play. They know what they're looking for, and so you want to be present only when they're most likely to download that app. The other thing you want to keep in mind is making sure your ad creatives are relevant to your keywords. So if I'm searching for Taylor Swift music, ideally I see an ad that says listen to Taylor Swift music 24/7 or something. So having that relevancy really makes it more likely that your ad will perform, that it'll drive more downloads, capture the user's eye, and you also want to make it clear what the action is, so in any ad creative, you want to say download today or download the app now. Something really simple like that where the user knows if I'm going to click on this ad, it's going to be very clear what the action is. And it'll make it easy for me to download the app or register for your product or your service. So yeah, those are the things you want to keep in mind is keeping the keywords in the ads relevent and then ultimately the landing page. So obviously if I'm looking to download or stream music or sign up today, hopefully when I click that ad, it takes me to the registration page where I can register for your product, or I can download that app right then. So the most ideal experience would, say on my phone, I'm going to search on my phone and listen to Taylor Swift music on an app, see your ad, click on the ad, then it takes me to Google Play Storem, and I can download the app and start then using it. AdWords function as an auction, so if a user is looking for a certain type of product, usually they're going to see multiple ads, and you might wonder how do I make sure that I show in the top position, or at the top of the page, or even on that page. So all of that comes down to how well your campaigns are set up, so you want to follow those principles that we've been talking about and have really tightly themed keywords that are most relevant to your product, keep your ads really relevant to your keywords, and then ultimately your landing page is really relevant. So all of that comes into play, but then ultimately, you can use your bid to, so this would be how much you're willing to pay for a user to click on your ad. So there are a number of factors that determine which place your ad is within the auction. So which position your ad will be within the Google results. Two of those main factors that we know of, it is an algorithm so we don't know all the factors that go into play, and that's part of Google's secret sauce is just keeping it fair so that no advertiser, one advertiser can play the system, and know how to place their ad at the top, but we want to make sure the best ads are showing for every search query, so the way that we determine that as Google is two major factors. One is quality score and the other is your bid. And so quality score, we'll talk about that first. It's a score that combines the quality of your ad, and the quality of your keywords, and the quality of your landing page. So that's why we talked about why those three are so important in your campaign set up, because you really want to make sure you have a quality ad that really is descriptive of what your business is, of what your product is. And that the landing page does actually direct to your business. So all of that goes into play in creating a quality score, which is attached to every one of your keywords. So then when a user searches a term that triggers your keyword, that quality score comes in to play. As long as everything is in place and you have a high-quality setup, then the next thing that the auction will look at is your bid, and your bid is how much are you willing to pay per click. Now every advertiser can set that individually per keyword and say I'm willing to pay, let's say I'm willing to pay $0.30 for a user to click on this ad. Now maybe my competitor is willing to spend $0.20 for a click. Now my competitor might have a lower quality score than I do and in that case, the combination of the quality score and the bid will win out the auction. So the advertiser will get the first position with the best quality score, and the best bid. Now as far as bidding goes, you only have to pay the amount that'll win the auction or beat out the next advertiser competing with you, so if my competitor was bidding $0.20, I was bidding $0.30, but I had the better quality score, I'll only have to pay $0.21 to beat out that other advertiser. That's why Google functions as an auction to make it more fair for advertisers to decide how much are they willing to pay, but also, you don't have to pay more than the market price per click. AdWords allows you to create ads that are designed especially for mobile users. With the prevalence of mobile users across the world, optimizing for ads on mobile is a great way to acquire new customers. There are a ton of options on AdWords to appeal to your customers on mobile including text ads, image ads, app promotions, call only ads, not to mention all the other ad options you have within actual apps on different phones and tablets. Now, think about your audience when determining what type of ad you want to use. Think about where they are when they're viewing your ad. For example, people seeing your ads on mobile are more likely to want to know where you are and how to call you, so you can consider using a text ad to show your location and your phone number, with location extensions and call extensions. Or you can use a call only ad, which will include a call button in your ad. Now think about it, when you're looking for Starbucks and you search the term on your mobile phone, how easy is it to click on the location extension and go directly to your nearest Starbucks? Also creating ads devoted to people on mobile devices. For example, using the mobile version of your website as your landing page. And your regular text ads may appear differently on mobile. So keep that in mind when you're designing them. Check out the instructor notes for more information on that. One perk of Image ads, is you don't actually need to change anything on mobile, except a link to your mobile site. These ads are the same ads that are going to show up on your desktop. You just want to make sure you're linking to the right landing page. However, you're going to need to opt in to the display network in your settings. Or search network with display selected. We'll talk more about display networks later. App promotion ads, or also known as click to download ads, are one of the best ways to get your app downloaded easily and efficiently for customers. These are designed to show up on devices that will have the most impact. So you're not going to see these popping up on your desktop. Determining the right options for you is all about knowing your audience and what devices they're going to be using. So you can design your ads appropriately. The thing behind how you build an ad words campaign, is similar to how you build any campaign. Just remember to understand your user and target audience. Explore different key words and different messaging and keep iterating and optimizing until you see your desired. Results. Now, Ad words can be a bit expensive when you're new and starting out, because it's a popular tool and competition can be high. But, people keep searching and they keep paying attention to the top paid result, so it's worth optimizing. But don't worry. There are other options you can explore. You can try looking for younger channels, like paid ads on YouTube or Instagram. Or you can even explore completely untapped platforms and find new opportunities for growth. Another option you have for paid marketing is to directly buy ad space from websites, or more easily, from ad networks. There are some websites who can sell you their ad real estate directly. But in most cases, you'll use an ad network or an ad exchange platform to buy ad space and target your audience in the most relevant websites. These networks are using today's technological platforms that allow both advertisers and publishers to optimize their buy or sell, accordingly. These platforms are called DSP and SSP. Demand side platform and supply side platform. A demand side platform allows advertisers to engage in transparent automated media buying across multiple sources using unified targeting, data, optimization, and reporting. The platform helps the ad buyer to aggregate all this data and find the most ideal impressions for a campaign. A supply side platform helps web publishers automate and optimize the selling of their online media space. Check out the instructor notes for a great glossary. One specific example for the men's side platform is the Google Display Network. The Google Display Network GDN is a collection of over a million websites, apps, videos, and blogs that show AdWords ads. Basically these million plus sites are using Google to help them offer their page to monetize by providing advertisers with online real estate to advertise on. The Google algorithm will target the ads to the appropriate audience by ensuring that the ads are relevant for the page content. Will do this matching based on the keywords you select and other factors. This will give you a much wider audience than just being in search results. With GDN, you have the opportunity to fine tune where you want your ads to be seen. Beyond selecting audience based on key words, you can choose topics to narrow your audience. So for Abarkment we can choose to focus on dog related websites or pick a specific site like one that sells pet supplies. Or we can block our ads from certain sites that aren't relevant to what we do, like a site that's dedicated to hating dogs and loving cats. We can even focus on people who have been to our site before and re target them when they go to other sites. This is called remarketing and you can find out more about that in the instructor notes. It's called a display network. Because unlike Google search, where you can use only text ads. Here you can display all types of formats like text, image, interactive, and video ads. To learn more about this check out the instructor notes. So with AdWords beyond Google search, we can target the display network. And specifically for mobile, you can capture the mobile Google display network. So if you have a mobile website, you can advertise and with mobile text ads, or mobile image ads, that capture users that are browsing different sites on their mobile phone. And they may see one of your ads and decide to click on it and go to your mobile site. So that's our regular mobile GDN, Google Display Network, that's more to drive users to your mobile site. The other opportunity you have is to drive app installs, and we recommend setting up a campaign where you would target apps. So your ad would actually show in other apps. So when a user is, for example, using an app of maybe you want to specify a certain category in which you want to target users. So for example let's say, I like to travel a lot. As a user, I might be on a lot of different travel apps. Hotel apps, flight apps, whatever it may be. But it's maybe I also have a dog at home and I need to make sure that I have housing for my dog while I'm gone. Well then as a dog Airbnb business you can target users who are in travel apps. So that would be a type of targeting you could set up. Find users who are you know most likely to travel. And they're already probably using travel apps. And then I want to target my ad to show when they're using one of those travel apps. So you can think about what's the best type of targeting to capture that target audience for you. So one thing that I'm really excited about is AdWords just released a new type of, a new campaign type for display targeting specifically for app promotion. So, it's called the Universal App Campaign, and it's one of the easiest campaigns you can set up. Which is why [LAUGH] I really like it. All you need to do is link your app to the campaign and say I want to drive users to install my app and this is my target and cost for install price. And then you really just type up four different lines that could be cycled through for the ad created and then AdWords does the rest. They create the Add formats, and then they then add words will determine all of the targeting. The great thing about our universal app campaign is that it targets all the different platforms that Google can offer. So that would include Google search and Google Play, but also the Google Display Network. We were talking about it with target all categories for apps. So you can have in app ads. And then, it also targets YouTube. Now, we haven't talked about YouTube yet, but let's say that you have a YouTube video promoting your business. So you can drop that video in this campaign, and it will also start targeting users on YouTube. So the great thing is, it covers all the different bases, it's a really easy set up. And it just drives downloads at your target cost per install. So, it's a campaign that is easy to set up and it knows what you want. Ideally, it's going to deliver that within a couple weeks of testing. Problematic buying allows you to use audience insights and technology. To tailor messages to the right person at the right moment in the right context. It was known in the past as Real-time bidding. As it helps you respond to Real-time signals across screens and across channels. But today it's much more than Real time-bidding, it's everything related to media mind decisions, that is done by an automatic system rather than manually. For example, if a dog owner was booking his travel online and was interrupted in the middle to take his dog for a walk. Problematic buying can help set an apartment to target this dog owner on his phone and make sure he's booking his apartment on his Smartphone on the go. The secret here is to really define your audience well. If you do this successfully, you're more likely to send them the most relevant message. Research has shown that when an ad is delivered in real time to an individual, they're twice as likely to interact with it. Next we have affiliate marketing. This is a way for a company to sell it's product by having other people market it for a commission. If you join another company's affiliate program, usually wanting to pay up front only when people buy your product or service through the other company. For example, say you're on a crafting blog and you see a link to Amazon to buy craft related products. That is affiliate marketing in action. If you were to buy what Amazon was advertising on the blog, you, the owner of the blog, will get a percentage of the sale price. There are businesses that are working with thousands of affiliates. And their lead generation relies on these concepts. Other businesses are playing as the affiliate and building their business model as an affiliate. For you to begin with, if it's not your core business model, you can start with a few partners that can start as your affiliates and you pay them per lead or per conversion. We mentioned before that YouTube can be a great platform to host videos as part of your content marketing. Now YouTube could also be a great place for paid marketing. It's still a young advertising place, so you may find cheaper rates than you would on, let's say, AdWords. Now there are a ton of different ad formats on YouTube, and at least for videos, you only have to pay for the ads that people actually engage with. So if someone skips your ad, you don't have to pay a cent. Now, on the other hand, creating a high quality video and hosting it for free on YouTube can generate buzz around your product or service. And if you promote it on social media, you can encourage virality. If you're considering advertising on YouTube with videos, remember that the viewer's attention span can be pretty short. So, you want to invest in a high quality video that can hook your users really quickly. So let's explore just a couple of the different formats you can use on YouTube because there are ton of options available to you. Check out the link in the instructor notes if you want to see all of them. One option is the desktop or mobile video mastheads. These are video ads that play on YouTube's homepage. On a desktop, they play without any sound and it'll end as a thumbnail of your video or any other video from your channel. On mobile, the video thumbnails will be available for your users to click on. You can even add a link directly to your website. Let's look at what it does look like. So, here's the video masthead. You can also have a rich media masthead which would go here as well. So the rich media mastheads are seen in that same location. You can do a ton with the custom mastheads from carousels, use cool videos or just images. There's a lot of options out there. That's surprising I know but you can also have a video ad. I'm sure you've noticed these ads playing before different videos that you've seen on YouTube. Now there are different options for the video ads. Nonskippable in-stream video ads are videos that appear pre-mid or post-roll when viewing different content on YouTube. They could be around 15 to 30 seconds long. And the viewer must watch the entire ad before they're able to watch their selected video. Now, for the skippable ads, you can go to the true view format. And there are a few different types of true view ads. So you have the in-stream that play before video, and you're allowed to skip after five seconds. You could have display ads that are suggested videos, in that suggested video list. Let's check that out. Here's an example of a display ad. And this is an example of an in-stream overlay ad. There are a few more options for true view ads. You can check the link in the instructor notes for more. You can have your standard display ads, which are similar to what you just saw. And you also saw the in-video overlay ads. They pop up, then you can select them while you're watching a video, or you have the option of closing them. But as I said before, there are a ton of ad options in YouTube. You can even do live streaming ads, if you'd like, so check out the documentation to learn more. So you're going to want to experiment with different types of media, so it's not just a simple text ad. Think video, for example. Video can perform really well on a social campaign. Everybody remembers the ALS Ice Bucket Challenge, right? The Ice Bucket challenge was something that went absolutely viral and generated a ton of money for a charity organization because it was something that felt real and fun, and it wasn't just a very stale text ad. I will say, never go into it with the goal of creating a viral video. That's a recipe for disaster. You always want to create something that you think is a really great piece of compelling content. So, I think YouTube is a really cost-effective place for any small business or startup to start promoting their business. I think YouTube is a place where people go and search and try to figure out are businesses legitimate, and how do I use this business, or what is this business all about? So YouTube can be a great place where users will discover your product, and also where you can quickly explain your value proposition. So I've seen really creative 15 to 30 second YouTube videos where a business will just really quickly explain who they are, maybe even a quick navigation of their site or app, and then a call to action. So, let's say you want someone to just download your app today. I would explain your value proposition, what a user needs to know about your business, what sets you apart from any other competitor. Then maybe showing the best case scenario. How a user would use your app. And make sure the app navigation is easy and very clear. Show that on the video. And then make it clear that the call to action is download the app today and start using your product. So, YouTube is just a great platform for you to, to explain who you are, and to do it simply and easily and really capture an audience. So once you have that video, that is just very clear and who you are and what you can offer. Then you can start using it as an ad format. So you can use that video to be placed in YouTube search results as well as before other videos. So those are what we call in stream ad formats or in stream YouTube videos and that also is an auction, and so it's very similar in principle in how you set up the campaign, but the great thing is, you can use that captivating video as an ad to explain who you are and capture users followed on YouTube. So true view is what we call the ad formats on YouTube that are auction- based, so these are ads that you get decide how much you're willing to bid for a view of your video. And the great thing is you only pay when a user views your video. So you can place your ad before other videos, maybe you want to make sure the content is similar, we can go back to the travel. Example, so if I'm searching for great places to travel and then I have let's say your hotel app. So maybe your ad, you want to place your video ad before I watch a video about this hotel resort I'm going to go check out. Okay, so you can target your ads based on theme or categories. And so then when your ad shows before the video, the user then has a choice to skip the ad or watch the full ad. Ideally, the ad is only about 15 or 30 seconds, but you only pay when a user watches 30 seconds of the video or the full length of the video. So if your video is only 15 seconds and the user gets to the 15 second mark, that's when you pay per view. But, if a user wants to skip after two or five seconds, they have the choice to skip the ad. And what's great about this ad format is that, your only capturing users that are engaged, that actually want to watch this ad, that are actually interested in your product. And the rest, you didn't even have to pay for, so maybe they did watch 10 seconds and maybe they'll think about you later, but you don't actually have to pay for that view. Paid social marketing is another way to get your product in front of valuable customers. Now you're probably already using social media to engage with the community for free, but when you want to drive customer acquisition directly, you can consider buying paid marketing on social media. LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, StumbleUpon, Pinterest are all among some of the biggest names in paid social marketing right now. Now there are few things you should think about when paying for social media marketing. First, you need to understand how the different ads are sold because each network does it differently. For example, LinkedIn and Facebook will have you pay by impression. On the other hand, Twitter is going to have you pay based on engagements. Second, optimize the design of your ad for smartphones. Social media is overwhelmingly consumed on mobile devices. Over half of Facebook users visit the site on a mobile device, and Twitter users spend 80% of their time on the mobile devices. So you want to keep that in mind with your messaging. Your ad should be short and to the point. Your ads should also link directly to the mobile landing page or directly to the app you want them to download. And the settings should be aligned to different mobile platforms youre aiming for. And third, have some fun with it. Explore with the different platforms they let you do. For example, Twitter will let you pay for tweets that are targeted by ZIP code. On the other hand, Snapchat lets you sponsor selfies like this one. So let's hear from the social media marketing expert. My name is Chris Morell and I worked in social media marketing and content marketing for the last ten years or so for brands including Fitbit, Clif Bar, Sony PlayStation, and now here at Udacity. When you're thinking about starting with social media, there's some really important things to consider. I think first and foremost, know your audience. I can't stress that enough. Go and do research on your audiences on each social platform. Dig into analytics. Dig into Twitter analytics, Facebook analytics, anything you can to get a really good sense of your audience. Make sure you're constantly listening to what your audience is saying. This will give you a really great perception of your audience and exactly who you're trying to market to with paid social. The target audiences for each social channel are going to vary. And I think the more that your app or product develops and the more time you spend in each channel, you're going to realize that each audience has its different, unique characteristics. For example, Twitter might be really great for customer support and Instagram and Pinterest might be great for sharing organic photo assets, brand images and just really great, engaging content. It's important to really know your demographics. Do some research, use free tools, use anything at your disposal to discover age, gender and any important demographic info that you think is going to help create a better and more successful ad campaign. When you start setting up campaigns you're also going to notice that the big platforms Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, they're really competitive. Something to consider if you want to stay ahead of the curve is to advertise on emerging channels. So think Instagram and Pinterest, think Snapchat. These aren't going to be as competitive as channels like Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn and you might get better returns. Success on channels like Instagram and Pinterest might be as simple as creating experiences and ads that feel real to the user. They feel like organic posts from our brand, and not an advertisement. We mentioned a few paid options and finished up the paid marketing portion of the lesson with some of the basics of paid social media marketing channels. However, social media is integrated so well into our lives that there are many ways to leverage social media for your business for free. The idea is use social platforms to encourage people to spread the word about your app within their circles. The first step in doing this is to engage the community online using social platforms. This is where we are going to start talking about free marketing methods for your business. After we talk about the free social communities to help with customer acquisition, we're going to look into inbound marketing. When thinking about creating a community, I want you to think about why someone would want to join your community. One of the reasons people join communities is because they enjoy it. If people are internally motivated, you'll see more long term, sustainable relationships made. There's also the goal of creating a community that has a good balance between people enjoying or having fun in your community, but also getting use out of it. Let's hear from Amir and Telly on other tips on how to engage with your community. So, a community is a group of people, who share the same mission or passion and have the same goal, want to achieve the same goal. A community could be anything from, a physical community. People come and meet and talk about something all the way to an online community, and we see a lot of these happening lately. So, first of all you need to understand what is the need, what is the mission? A community is a part, is a group of the mission, so if you have a mission that needs a community, that needs the scale. Then that's a good hint, that you need a community. It's also really, a way for you to achieve something. So think about, what do I want to achieve? And if I can use other people's passion, to get what I want to achieve. Just know that it needs to be a joint passion, right? You need to work with them towards a joined goal. So, first of all, you need to be very engaged with them. They're volunteers. They're passionate about what your trying to solve, but you always need to engage, be transparent, tell them we found this bug, we're fixing it. Make them feel that they are part of the process. In order to build a value for your community, you need to come up with three things, which I think are very important for every member of the community. Growth, fun, and belonging. So, if you analyze what are the aspects of your community that contribute to the members growth, fun, and belonging. These are the three things that will create the value for your members and maintain them. Not every start up needs an online community. Many startups are just about a user interaction, right? Mint is an amazing app, but it doesn't need a community. It has interaction, which is simple and intuitive, and does not require community. There are other startups, lately that really rely on a community to be successful. Sometimes they rely on two communities to be successful, and it's really important, and it provides you with a scale, that you don't have if you don't have this community. So a lot of the startups need social interaction, a lot of the market places. These are types of start ups that really need a community. When you want to seed interaction, when you have interaction imbedded into the app that requires a lot of people. So good examples for companies that need community are Uber for example, a community of drivers. A Messenger would be a good example. Google, of course we have a big community of world developer community. A place where you have a marketplace would be a good example. So a good way to get people to join a community is have a good goal. If the goal would be I want to make money for myself, that's probably not a goal where you can get a lot of people to join you. Right? But getting people educated all over the world is an amazing goal. And you can really get people inspired. And very engaged with this type of goal. A community of one person or two people is probably boring, and it's not really a community. You need to have critical mass in order to start a community. There's a process called seeding, where you have a call to action, or you hack into other communities to seed your own community. So think of it. There's many ways to create to do the seeding of the community. One of the things would be to go to another community, and say hey guys, we're opening a new community, why don't you join us? Another way is to go through, social channels. And talk about your passion, about the mission and get people excited about them. I've seen startups that just have a coffee, and talked about certain topic. Before they even started a community, they just say hey guys if your interested in this topic, come to mission. A street in San Francisco. Have some coffee with us and we'll talk about this. Once you get people excited and engaged, you can create a online community or an offline community out of that. The way to grow a community from a small community or a big community, is to think about the value for the members, right? How can, creating a bigger community will add more value to the members? Some people call it the K factor, the virality. You need to think about what incentives are there, for people inside the community to add more people to the community. Right? What is the incentive, what's in it for them, to grow the community. Some communities don't feel like growing, right? Some communities say hey I want to keep my community size small because I know everybody here. And that could be amazing, right? A lot of our, Google developer communities, are small because of that, right? They don't want ten thousand people in which they don't know. But if you want to grow and if you want to scale, you'll need to build incentives, to get people excited about growing the community. Okay, I think the key things with running a good community is treating your community well. Being communicative transparent, having a joint mission that is passionate for you, and passionate for the community. Keep fostering a community. Make sure that you maintain the community, that people don't drop off. A big mistakes that I see startups do, is they create a community but they don't invest in the community. So I think investing in the community is very important. Take the fun very seriously. Take the growth very seriously. Take the belonging very seriously. And always think of how do I invest in these, and how do I maintain my community. A community is something very precious and if you don't invest in it, it will die. And getting in the community the second time, is like getting someone to fall in love with you the second time. Its really hard. So, investment and continue and maintain your community. So, when I joined develop relations on Google, I was tasked to create a Google developer communities. These are communities of developers that meets on a monthly or quarterly basis to talk about technology. So the first thing I did was, to source community leaders. So I came, and I tried to find good speakers, where people are passionate about communities and just say, hey, I'm starting this community. The mission is to empower people through technology, you want to join me? Most of them said no. Some of them said yes. Those are those who wanted to actually work with me, and to create this community. Join me, and we just had coffee, and we talked about how do we create the community? So they started creating their own community, but the key was to maintain them, right? To keep them passionate. So every month I just went to the best restaurant I could find in the area, gathered them together and just talked about cool stuff. So I created a meta community, of my community leaders. They felt that they're empowered. They felt that they're amongst people that are very passionate about these things, and they feel that they belong. So I actually managed to get them excited about building communities for me. Yeah, so community management. I think, first and foremost it's about, really understanding your users, and what they need, and how to connect them in ways that are meaningful to them. So for us, a lot of it was understanding that we need the moderator in every community. So, we went and did that. Or understanding that we needed very specific guidelines, because this is a community, it's about sharing and people get confused about what is sharing, what isn't sharing, what kind of things can you share? And we kind of learned that from our community and from our users as they were doing these things. Sometimes we thought, oh, this is okay, but then we got [INAUDIBLE] from the community saying, that actually offended me. So you kind of learn it over time, and you define the guidelines. And we realize that it's very necessary to have community guidelines, that kind of explaining exactly why and. Once you have those, people will respect that and abide by that. So if they do something that's kind of wrong and you kind of tell him, oh it's on the guidelines, so they're okay, and they're not offended by it. The role of a moderator is just making sure that everybody sticks by the guidelines, so if they try to pull something that's irrelevant, or not family friendly, or not sharing related. They will just, you know, moderate that content out, and explain to the user that, because it's a lot of times it's not intentional, right? The user was just genuinely thinking that they could use this platform for this. So they just want to see this explanation, and be referred to the guidelines. Inbound marketing refers to the activities that you do and the content that you create that drives people to come to you and engage with your site, your product, or your social channels rather than having to go out and get people's attention by ads or other outbound marketing activities. You're earning the attention of your customers and drawing them in by producing interesting content. Then you want to personalize your content to the needs and wants of your target audience, and your going to want to have multi-channel mindset here. With inbound marketing you're going to need to connect with your users, where they are, and where they want you to connect with them whether that be by using your blog, publishing things on social media, your SEO search results, or even emails you send out. Now one thing that's really important with inbound marketing, and frankly with all of your marketing efforts is making sure you're publishing the right content to the right people in the right place at the right time. This intersection will allow your marketing efforts to be helpful and relevant rather than annoying and repetitive. Let's go to Greg to talk about his thoughts on inbound marketing. My name's Greg Brauner. I'm Head of Marketing, at Udacity. I've been in marketing for about 15 years. Inbound marketing is a set of activities that you take to engage with your audience to get them to come to your site directly. These are things like blog posts, social posts, things on Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter that you engage direct with your audience and get them to come to your site. So the content attracting the user to the site is going to have to be relevant. So for example in Udacity's case we provide an education platform and an education service for you to come and learn from us. If we were to post things relating to education that show us thought leaders or knowing exactly what we're talking about in the education space, or relevant to topics that they're interested in they're more likely to come to us. So being an educational platform when we send out things that are related to the continuing education for them, things that we're launching that are new, things that are really relevant to why they came to use in the first place. If we start out saying things about cats and muscle cars it's really not what they want to hear from us and they'll ignore us pretty quickly or wonder what the heck we're doing over here. So when you look at creating different types of content what you really want to understand is what type of content your audience really wants to engage with. There is everything from webcasts to info-graphics to memes, but you have to pick the right one for you and your audience because they're going come want to consume in a certain way. The best way to do that is back to AB testing is to go ahead and send out two different messages. Send out an info-graphic one month and a meme the next month and a vine the third month. See what gets the highest engagement, and then from there you can refine your marketing plan and determine out what kind of inbound content you want to spend time on. So when you look at creating content you want to make sure you're hitting the right people with the right content at the right place at the right time. Look at Facebook versus Twitter to get an example of how you engage your audience differently. On Facebook you can post long form content and engage in a very deep discussion with your customers. On Twitter it's a shorter medium right? So you only have a 140 characters so you have to really be thoughtful about what you post, and try and get them back to your site and engage with you there. So when you look at good quality content and creating quality content you want to do it yourself if you can. You can control the message, the theme, the colors, the images, and it's something that really ties to you and your company. If you buy content or syndicate someone else's content you don't always get what you really want. I think Virgin America right now is doing an amazing job with their content creation and their marketing. It's unique, it's original, it's definitely to their brand. I encourage you to check out their billboards, and their website. They've done an amazing job in creating a fun airline in a space where it's really not a lot of fun to fly. When you look at creating a blog and a readership there what you really want to do is have a contact calendar. Look out a month or two months of what you want to write, what you want to talk about, and then figure out how to get that content created. So again we're talking about original content. What you want to have is someone creating it for you in a way that tells your story. That's the best way to create any type of sort of blog following. I would say when you look at publisher and social you really have to pay attention to what channels you want to engage with and have time to engage with. When you look at LinkedIn or Twitter or Facebook, which are the three kind of big ones right now they all have their different ways people want to interact, and they want to hear back from you as well. So example on Twitter don't just post stuff and never go back to it again. You want to actually engage because people will retweet you. They'll talk to you, ask you questions. Make sure if you do engage in social you have time to nurture and engage that community in the way that they want to talk to you, Email marketing goes under the umbrella of inbound marketing. Email is the workhorse of marketing. However, you need to learn how to use it right, and well, so you can actually add value to your users. Otherwise, you're just another spam in the inbox. Now there are a ton of platforms out there that can help you manage your email marketing. Most have some basic free features, so, you can consider email marketing as a free marketing channel. You can break email into two main purposes. Both engagement and acquisition. Email can be use as a way to keep people engaged. Whether it's about a new feature announcement or continue engaging in your product. On the other hand, emails also used by many e-commerce sites to drive sales in acquire new customers. So what's important in an email? Well first, you need to establish a goal and you need to develop the right messaging for your audience. Now based on your knowledge of your audience, and how you're positioning yourself, you should know the tone of voice for your company. You should use the same tone of voice in your social posts, your blog posts, and in your emails. And just like in the rest of marketing, you should be testing your message and adapting to what works best for your audience. With email marketing and the different messaging platforms, you're going to want to make sure you're tracking some important things. Like opens, clicks, unsubscribes and click through rates. Now, depending on the metric your optimizing for, which is, of course, determined by your goal, you'll test different components of the email. For example, if your goal is to increase the open rate. Then you're going to want to test your subject line to get more people to actually open that email. If your overall goal for your email is to increase sales, then the subject line isn't going to be enough. The body of the email is going to have to drive those sales, so using a clear call to action and those hooks that really attract your customers. So when you look at tools for email automation, there are several platforms you can use. A lot of start ups use send grid which is a real cheap and effective way to send lots of emails that are custom. And you don't have to get into a lot of heavy architecture installation to get it done, it can get up and running pretty quickly. When you get bigger and become a larger company you can go to things like responses Marketo That are much larger, much heavier integration. They allow a lot of other things that will let you do targeting, re-targeting, segmentation that SENDGRID won't do. So it really depends on where you are in your company's life cycle and how many emails you do have. One of the best ways to generate an email list is to get them to engage with your contacts on their own. If you do that, there's already a level of trust they've given you because they've said I like your product, I like your content, I like your company. If you don't do that and you go and purchase a list, there's a high likelihood they're probably not going to customers that are in your target segment. They're going to unsubscribe and you're going to be wasting your time and your money. So there are several ways you can get someone to subscribe to your website. Usually when you come to a blog, like www.ask-you.com/blog. What we do is we pop up a little box and it says want to hear more from us click here. And it's really an email address and a submit button. It's clean, it's simple, and it's a great way to get them to continue to engage with your content. Another way is when you have a sign up process again that you'd ask the one thing we do is you have to sign up for our content and for our courses. So to consume a course you have to give us an email address, your first name, and last name. That allows us to understand what you're interested in and communicate with you just about the topics that you want to hear from. So the biggest component of email marketing that marketers need to realize is the fact that when someone gives you your email, they're trusting you with that. It's a very personal thing, it's very similar to your phone. So you're letting someone contact you whenever they want to. You've established a bond and trust with that customer. You will break that trust by over emailing them or quote unquote spamming them. What you really don't want to do is hit them too often with the wrong message. You will increase that trust and they will talk about you and refer you to other people if you actually maintain a good relationship with them and send them emails they want when they want. The more you send them things they don't want, the higher likelihood they'll unsubscribe from what you do and not talk with you ever again. There's a great example of this if you look at the emails I've gotten recently from Apple. They really only send you something when a new proctor feature is announced, which is great because I don't see 400 emails from Apple in my stream. Another example is a consumer grades company where I get emails from them probably daily. I subscribed once but i never subscribed to get something from them everyday. It took me about three, four weeks before I gave up on them and I don't subscribe anywhere else. Email marketing is a set of activities that you take to engage with your audience to get to come to your site directly, these are things like blog posts, social posts, things on Facebook,LinkedIn and Twitter. That you engage directly with your audience and get them to come to your site. You really don't want to send the same person the same message multiple times. The best thing to do is to create a theme or a message that relates to a certain thing you're trying to promote. And make that custom. So for example when you talk about Fourth of July. You know messaging around that holiday. That would promote your product in conjunction with what's happening at the time. Timely messages are extremely important in getting someone to read it. The more timely your message is there's a higher likely that them actually opening your email and engaging with your product and company. Okay, so let's look at the different components of an email. First we have our subject line, this should be short and draw attention to your email. You're trying to engage the customer enough that they want to open the email. This is setting the expectation for the contents of the email. If you're promoting a new feature, say something like that. If you're telling everyone that things are going on sale, probably should mention it there. Next we have the content, the content is the main piece of the email. It's likely to contain some combination of text and images depending on your chosen layout. You're going to want to find the right layout and the right type of content to achieve your goals for each particular email, and this is where your messaging is showcased. So be sure to use a consistent tone. Then we have our call to action. This should mirror the goal of the email. All of your email components should lead to this call to action that you want your readers to take. So what is it that you really want your readers to do, or to get out of this email? We have the from name so who is this email from? Is it Ebarkment support, or is it the Ebarkment team, or is it Lauren the Ebarkment COO? What do you think is going to connect with you users, and what supports the goal of the email? For example, if this is an email about a new feature or business channel we're going into, maybe the email should come from the CEO or the director of product. If it's about some type of customer support, maybe it should come from the support team, or a particular member at the support team. And finally, the from address. This is the email that's displayed to the receiver when they receive the email. You'll want to send your emails from a consistent address, that aligns with the purpose of the email. Before you choose your from address, make sure to take into account the goals of the email, and the general tone, you're trying to set. If this is a more personal email, maybe it should come from lauren@ebarkment.com instead of ebarkment.support.donotrespond@ebarkmen- t.com. You have options. Now when sending your emails, you can send a regular old email from Gmail or something like that, or you can choose an email platform, which most growing companies choose to do. These platforms will vary depending on the needs of the company. So, when deciding on an email platform, you'll want to consider the volume of emails you're sending, the cost, and features, like automation and segmentation. There are a few different platforms out there that are great if you're just getting started that are pretty cost effective, like SinGrid, HubSpot, MailChimp. And there are also more robust platforms that have built in automation, advanced segmentation, and life cycle emails like Marketo, Responses, and Exact Target. Let's go to Greg and see what he has to say about email marketing. Growth hacking is a major buzz word in the marketing industry right now. It's all about growing your business quickly. Last lesson, we spoke about a few examples. Do things that don't scale. In the beginning, you may want to test out postcards or door hangers, but that's not something you're going to want to do when you have a million users. Referral bonuses have helped many companies achieve success. People, give ten bucks to new customers and ten bucks to the people who referred them. Suggesting followers or people who share the app with is another way to gain users. With Twitter, they suggested people to follow their members because they knew if people were following and being followed, they were more likely to be active. But let's take a moment to explore a few more. Take YouTube for example. When they were first starting out, they utilized giveaways and contests to attract new users to create accounts and upload videos. They were giving away an iPod Nano a day. Remember those? As we talked about previously in the course, they also use partnerships to help accelerate their business. Like the one that they did with Myspace. Now Uber, on the other hand, did some in person growth hacking. They teamed up with Google Ventures and drove around entrepreneurs and investors for free, giving entrepreneurs 15 minutes to pitch investors an idea during the ride. This was a great way to get future influencers talking about their service and caring about it. Now imagine if Mark Zuckerberg, in every interview he did, told people that he got his start in the back seat of his Uber, rather than in a dorm room. Uber also teamed up with a northern California blow dry bar. Where you get your hair shampooed and a blow dry. They offer free rides to all of their clients that booked a blow out. This allows them to one, get press, and two, access another niche market. And finally, FourSquare lets you leverage other platforms. For example, you can post check-ins to your Facebook timeline for other potential users to see. Because growth hacking is so popular these days, we can't cover everything in this course. However, we've posted links to articles, if you're interested in learning more and reading more examples of growth hacking. Thinking about a small brand or a small start up, it's really important to embrace grassroots tactics. Think constant engagement, think things like giveaways and contests, anything that can move the needle in the right direction and help build your social media follower base. It's also important to consider things like user generated content, getting great content from your users, quotes, anything tactical like that can really pay of and help engage with your customer base. Throughout this lesson, we covered both paid and free customer acquisition channels in order to help you determine what's right for your company at your stage in development. Remember to take a moment to think about where your touch points are with your customers. Where do they hang out in real life and in their online life? You want to make sure to meet them there. And don't forget, you don't have to chose just one channel. You can combine multiple channels and keep learning on the go. As long as you make sure to track your performance and keep doing only the things that show positive impact on your goals. Which is exactly what we're going to be covering next lesson. Tracking and measurement. So, we'll see you there. Throughout the course we've been mentioning how crucial it is for startups to keep iterating and learning. In this lesson we're going to explore how to choose the right metrics to measure your marketing goals, and how to track them. Each case will be different, but there are a few things you can consider when choosing the metrics to follow. You're going to learn how to validate and optimize your marketing efforts through experimentation. We'll talk about how to run marketing experiments and iterate based on the results you receive. And finally, on top of analyzing the what, we will research also the why and learn how to run experiment with read users using your app. We've already spoken to you about the importance of user feedback. Learning from and responding to feedback is incredibly important. But now, let's hear from the expert about their real world experience using feedback to learn about their customer's needs and to better their product. So I am VP of mobile a UserTesting, and UserTesting is a company that lets you get really, really fast turn around videos of normal people using your application or website. So you come to us, you define the test you need, the demographics, and you get videos back often in as little as an hour. So it's a really fast turnaround. So what you can learn on the marketing side is getting more insights into what's going on in the heads of your customers and how well are you matching what's happening in what they're thinking about. So it can be early stages when you're working on your marketing materials, testing it out on people, finding out what sorts of things they respond to well and which things they don't like. Or it can be later on, after you've launched when you're looking at analytics or things like that and trying to get more insights on the behaviours that you're seeing in what customers are doing. So times when you can use user tests just alone, there are two categories. One is when you're really interested just in understanding emotional context, because analytics won't give you that stuff at all, it's like how are they feeling about it, are they feeling engaged, are they interested, are they feeling like they're making progress? And sometimes when I watch the videos, I actually just look for tone of voice more than anything else. So for example, if you're testing an app and at some point during the test, the user sighs, they do this [SOUND], you know you're in deep, deep trouble. I mean, it could be a in foreign language. If you just hear, or the tone of voice is, well, you kind of get that trailing off tone of voice, what that is telling you is that you are failing to grab them emotionally which means you are not creating the motivation which will cause them to come back in the future to use your app again and you've really got a problem that you need to go dig into. I think the second place where the user test can stand alone is when the conclusions are so clear that, hey we don't need [LAUGH] analysis on this, it's really obvious what's going on. And one class of these is when you find that there's particular language or maybe an icon design or something like that that just doesn't work for them. And a lot of times, because the team has been working on the app for a long time, you get this kind of group think situation where because it's become clear to you over time that this is how it should work, or this is what the context of this stuff means, this phrase is very meaningful to the team for describing the application, therefore, it's gotta mean the same thing to the users. And what you'll find very often is it is not intuitive to them and actually, you need to step back and get inside their head and the user test can show you that sort of stuff very quickly. If the icon is not intuitive, they'll just look at it and say, what the heck am I supposed to do here? And that's the point where you need to think about, okay, either redraw it or maybe add a text label, which is not sexy, it doesn't look beautiful, but we're after usability more than we are beauty. I mean, it's great if you can get both, but I'd rather have it be usable first and then pretty it up as much as you can. The user test can be a great way to very rapidly get those insights, so you can fix them right in the moment. Engaging with your customer, isn't always as easy, as it may seem. Some companies have gotten themselves into some pretty sticky situations, because of the lack of thought, they put into responding to customer feedback. One example, is when Lululemon, a popular yoga clothes company, blamed their customers for the flaw in their yoga pants. Their response was not consistent with the tone or the voice, the company typically displays to their customers. When your responding, their goal should be to attempt to make things right for your customer, or sincerely offer what ever support you can. You're going to want to keep track of complaints, suggestions or feedback and use this opinions as options to improve your product. Now, when you want to respond to customers keep in mind the following things. Don't wait too long to respond, but make sure you're not being overly reactive. When you can, try to avoid templated responses. Well, it may be easier for your team, to just send them out. You want to show each customer that you appreciate the feedback, because after all they're only trying to help you improve your product. And because of this, you should thank the user for their feedback. If there's a problem, take ownership over that problem, it is your product, after all. If it's something the customer could do to improve the problem, try something like, hey, your feedback was helpful, or sorry you're having trouble with, [INAUDIBLE] Viewing the settings. We may not have been clear enough as to where you can find it, so try clicking in the lower left hand corner to see your settings, if it doesn't work, go ahead and reach out to support@ .com and we'll try to fix it right away. And finally, like I said before, monitor the situation. Make sure you're tracking all of the feedback and you want to make sure whatever problem customers are having, end up being solved. Make sure you're listening to the feedback and getting the full story of what's going on. If somebody gives you feedback like, I like that you offer vet service for my dog but it could be better, this is really vague and it doesn't really help you build off of. So we, at Should attempt to reach out and get a better understanding of how we can improve their customer experience, which could help us in the long run and make more customers happy. We've talked a lot about marketing goals throughout the course. Now these goals are really important, but they're not worth anything if all you do is mention them in a slide. You need a way to follow them and to ensure you're on track with meatier goals. You have to be honest and find the most accurate metrics to measure these goals. You're looking for something that is clear and that will help you to evaluate your progress. Think about your car dashboard. The fuel gauge indicator turns on the light to transfer the message. No more gas, soon enough, you won't be able to keep driving. You need metrics that are so clear and relevant to your goal, that every event tells you something about the health of your business. Your metrics must be measured correctly. You don't want inaccurate or incomplete data. This could lead you down the wrong path. It has to be simple, if it's too complex to explain how to relate it to your business and marketing, then there's something wrong. Let's look at our goals for aBARKment that we created in lesson.two. When thinking about growth for your app one of the most important things is the key flows that you know your users are going to go through. Most people who download your app are not going to come back later. So you really need to get them to the wow moment at the beginning as soon as possible with your product. So make them see what the value is so that they will come back again. One of the most important things in A/B testing is also the creative side. So whilst the process itself is scientific, and you want to use math and data to get to the right decision, knowing what you can do to move the metrics that you want to do is very much the creative part that goes at the beginning. And without that, then you can't do all of the testing that comes afterwards. If your user is waiting just few hundred milliseconds more, they will use your app less. It's really important to be creative. For instance, if your app aBARKment, you wanted more people to be able to post an ad, there are an infinite number of ways that you can go about it. For instance, you might want a permanent entry point on at the same point in every single screen in the app to make sure that people always knew that they could post an ad and they always knew where they wanted to go to do it. One of the most important things that any marketer needs to think about with their Apple product is retention. So, it's hard to get people to try out your app for the first time. And if you're losing users from your app, that can make all of your work that much harder. It's like having a bucket with holes in it. If you're pouring water into the top, your bucket's not going to get full if you have that many holes. So you concentrate on filling those holes, increasing user retention, and then you can get more users in. When you're trying to measure retention, if you're storing your own data, you need to make sure that you store when was the first time that you saw this user. So what was the date when they first turned up? Then you can do what's called cohort analysis. And this is just a way of saying for everyone who installed on a single day, after that, what was the likelihood that they came back on any other given day? Another thing that app marketers should really care about is the number of people who are actively using your product. Too many marketers focus on just the top of the funnel and getting the number of downloads up and the number of new users in, but if they're not actively using the product, then they're not doing you any good. So one that Facebook uses is monthly active users and that's just the number of people who have opened and used your app in the last 30 days. When you're looking at new user acquisition, one of the most important things is the different sources that are providing you with new users. So, for instance, there's organic downloads where people are coming direct from the App Store. Maybe they're searching for a specific term. Maybe they're just browsing. Other ones include pay channels. Facebook, for instance, does mobile app install ads. If you go with paid media, you'll usually get a lot of stats from the actual tool itself. So inside of Facebook, if you pay for ads, we'll give you really important key of metrics, like the reach and number of impressions that your ads are delivering, as well as the number of installs that you're getting that's attributed to that campaign, and really key metrics like the cost that you're paying for each install. For user engagement, there's lots of different ways that you can look at it. The specifics will depend on what your app is and which market segment you're in. The number of times that a user comes back inside of a month. The daily active to monthly active ratio is a good measure of engagement. And also the number of things that they do inside of the app. If you're looking at a shopping app, for instance, the number of items that they view might be a good metric for engagement, the specifics all the way down to the app itself. One of the most important things that you can do for growth is get people through the new user experience as quickly as possible and into the real wow moment of your product. So what is it that really is going to capture the user's attention? What is it about your product that makes it successful? If you have a long sign up flow, you're going to reduce the number of people getting through, and that's not what you want. Facebook puts a lot of effort into its new user registration flow. So when you go to sign up for Facebook, we ask you for as few pieces of information as we can so that we can get you to the real point of the product and that's seeing all of the status updates and photos and things that your friends are posting in your news feed. The most high level metrics for paid social are going to be CPC, which is cost per click. That's the usual term that ad industry uses for engagement on your ads. And what that means is every click is going to cost you a specific amount of money. It's also important to take into consideration when you're thinking about cost per click and how much you're going to spend for a click potentially to your product or website, but think about the lifetime value or LTV of that particular customer. So how much will they potentially spend long term if you're able to acquire them with one simple ad? Certain platforms like Twitter use CPE which is cost per engagement. That could be anything that a user engages with in one of your paid ads. That could be a favorite, a retweet, or a direct click through to your product or website. Also, just for good measure, it's good to do some basic research on industry standards and industry baselines for how well ads perform. So, for example, if you are developing a fitness app, do some research on how fitness industry ads perform on Twitter. And if you're getting a return or an engagement of, let's say, 1% on your ads, you know that you can compare that to whatever the industry average is. There's no perfect way to find industry averages or how well relative industries perform on specific social platforms. I'll just say do some Googling, do some searching, do some research. You're going to find really helpful free resources out there and you can at least find some baselines to go up and measure your performance against. Thinking about a small brand or a small startup, it's really important to embrace grassroots tactics. Think constant engagement, think things like giveaways and contests, anything that can move the needle in the right direction and help build your social media follower base. It's also important to consider things like user generated content. Getting great content from your users, quotes, anything tactical like that can really pay off and help engage with your customer base. Okay now that we've talked through a few examples of goals and metrics to track, let's go through a few scenarios together. I want you to match the following goals with the best metric options you see below, by writing the corresponding letter in the boxes you'll see. First, for learntofly.com, your goal is to increase qualified traffic to your website for your flight school business by 10% each month for six months. And we want to increase traffic to be from people who can actually afford flying lessons and who have time to devote to flying lessons. Okay, now for the second scenario movieman.com, you have a video streaming service and you notice that 30% of the people are dropping off after the first month. Your goal is to decrease drop off by 20% over the next four months. You're metric options are A, Traffic increase. B, Retention rate. C, Conversions. D, Sign ups. Fill in the boxes with the corresponding letters. Okay, so for the first one, learn to fly.com, it can be a bit tricky. We need to think about our overall traffic, but we also want to look at overall conversions. Now if we increase the amount of traffic, by people who are serious about taking flying lessons and who actually can. We're going to see a greater number of people of actually buying those lessons than if it was just random traffic. So we're going to look at C Conversions and A traffic, but the most important here is Conversions. And for the second one, movie man.com, we're going to want to look at retention rate for the first month after people sign up. If your retention rate increases, you know that you've achieved your goal. By now you know how important it is to create goals and look at metrics. But other than tracking those goals, how do you affect them? Your routine, as a marketeer at a startup should be based on trial and error. Experimentation and iteration is the most important thing for a startup. Let's hear what some of our experts have to say about this. We did some sort of behavioral studies of what a new user to YouTube, how they utilize the service. And it typically, what we would see would be the first time they would come visit this site would be through some kind of viral marketing that may be they saw one of their friends share a video. Maybe it was on Myspace, maybe it was an email, check out this video, this was really funny. But the first time generally it doesn't really stick with them, they don't remember this site, maybe they'll remember the site. They will remember this site, but they won't remember the site that it came from, because I think we get that all of the time where people would just be sharing the instant messages through emails, just check this thing out on the Internet, it's very funny and you see it, you laugh and then you close the browser window. But I think the second time, there would be another time where somebody would share this, another video. Maybe it'd be somebody else sharing and then after a few times visiting the site, it starts kind of, the logo starts kind of thinking in a bit, the sort of domain names start sinking in a little bit. And what we would see is that people, they themselves would type in YouTube.com into the browser and they would actually go to the site themselves. And then from there, It's about sort of uploading their own videos, finding their own videos and sharing it, so it kind of spreads out that way. But we've always kind of looked at it required a lot of sort of effort with the design of the site to be able to say within the first five seconds, that's the amount of time window that you have to be able to really grab the users. And so there was a lot of work that was done on the related videos on the right side, because the video that you were sent may not be interesting at all, or may not be up your sleeve in terms of what you'd be interested in, but something on the right side would grab you. Same thing on the front page, there would be ten videos, so we're always any page on YouTube there was always one link away from starting another video. And so in case you got bored, instead of closing your browser, I think psychologically it's always easier to kind of spend more time on a site, rather than closing the browser and going to do work. And so there's always something that's within one click that can start another video and if you don't like that, again, then there's another, one click away from another video. One significant part of YouTube is not the first video viewed but the subsequent video. That whole experience and so whether, and we've different metrics giving us different times, but it has been as high as something as, or it has been as low as sort of the average length session of YouTube is like 12 minutes, but it's been as high by some metrics as 28 minutes and that's incredible when you consider the average length of the videos. Whatever, 30 seconds to minutes and so well, one important part of that is and not the first video. We're assuming that people are already getting to the site but how do you get them to watch and click on the second video and then after that how do you get them to click on another video. And more importantly cause like if they get disappointed by that second, third video how do you still get them to click on the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh video. And the solution to that, partly, is the related videos on the right side and we always put that high because that was going to be your channel to get into more content, but then the follow-up question. And this is where we had the smartest engineers at YouTube working on this day end, day out, which was how do you populate that related to video? One idea of thinking about the content on YouTube, is you can think about it and sort of almost different islands that are connected. Somehow, but different islands, they're islands about sort of singers and the different types of genres of artists out there. And then there's islands of sort of movies, there's islands that related to fashion and food and there's islands that's more directed towards kids. So there's all these different islands, some of them are bigger, some of them are continents and some of them are tiny. But people are very passionate about that and they're all interconnected with graphs and if you can visualize that then it's kind of what if you are watching a single video on one of these. Maybe it's a big continent and maybe it's a small island. What do you populate with all the other videos on the right side? And the obvious approach is if you're watching a content about cooking, everybody on the right side is more about cooking and so it's all within the same island. But what if by the fifth video they're just sick of watching cooking videos, how do you get them to watch something else? And so we realized early on, but there was a lot of testing involved with this, is, what if we actually start stuffing in different types of content in there. So what would be coming back from search results would be the things that are most related with this video is obvious it's going to be cooking. But let's just say artificially we take out 50%, 75% of this content. We just make it so it's impossible to show more than 25% related videos is cooking, then you start actually feeding in this other content. Maybe we find out that people that are interested in cooking also like soccer. And so we start actually putting in 10% of the videos which are related to soccer. And started playing around with this and so maybe people that are interested in this abstraction of soccer and sports if they're watching sports videos maybe they're also interested in watching football or maybe they're interested in watching tennis. And so we started playing around with this idea, what percentage is tightly related to the video that you're watching. How much of it is, it's not unrelated ever, but there was a algorithm that went behind, how do you actually create this sort of loose relationship? They're still related, because we do know that people that watch this content also watch this content. But it would be hard to explain if you didn't look at what the actual watching sessions and patterns are to be able to create that connection between say food and football. Well, that's probably an easy one to create, but so we started doing a lot of research along these lines and trying to create algorithms to be able to better guess as to people that are watching this video would also be interested in watching this video. But it took a lot of theories and testing those theories, and pushing stuff out live and seeing what the users would actually do, and tweaking and tweaking and tweaking that. You should start your experiment by choosing what it is you want to focus on. For example, do you want to improve traffic or the number of sign ups? Do you want to increase the number of people who are actually buying your product or service? Or do you want to increase a sharing between people on social sites? Once you choose what you want to focus on, you can start coming up with ideas on what you can do to tweak it and actually move that needle, on those metrics that you're interested in. I think about things that would really make a difference. So Ronnie and I went to the drawing board for a aBARKment, to come up with a list of ideas. We decided to focus on increasing conversions people just visiting our site to actually signing up to use aBARKment. Some of the ideas we came up with were changing the text on the landing page to explain aBARKment differently. Changing the color and the size of the sign up button, trying a different messaging in our emails, adding a video showcasing happy customers. Highlighting a few positives reviews on the landing page, or even designing a whole new landing page. Now we need to narrow down our ideas to three maybe four of the most important ones that would make the biggest impact. We also want to think about which ones we can actually implement easily and what are some quick ones. For example, designing a whole new landing page may be harder than just moving the sign up button to the top of the page. Next as any scientist would, you should create a hypothesis and measure your base lines you actually know if you're causing change. For your hypothesis think about this, if we do blank, our blank will grow by blank. So for aBARKment, if we move the sign up button to the top of the page, our conversions will grow by 8%. Now later on we can try the rest of our ideas and experiment on those too. But we should test one thing at a time, so we can isolate the specific change and move the needle that way. For a baseline, we can look at our conversions through Google Analytics before we make the change to see what they are. I want you to come up with your own experiment to increase the retention rate, for a music streaming service you created. So again, if we blank our retention, will grow by blank. Fill in these two boxes. There's no right or wrong answer here, there are many experiments you can try. For example, if we target existing users who are searching for songs on Google or YouTube and show them an ad with our call to action, saying something like, listen to this song on our app, our retention could increase by 10%. So now that you know what you're expecting to change through your hypothesis and what you're going to do, you need to run an experiment. You can do this using an A/B test. This will help you compare two different versions of your webpage or app and learn which one performs better. You can use a Control group and an experimental group. Having a control group can show you how effective your campaign is. Now, the control group consists of randomly selected users who are representative of the population you're targeting, and who do not receive the change to whatever campaign you're running. So being representative of the population means that if 50% of your app users are male and 50% are female, you need to have the same demographic in your randomly selected Control group. Now everything except the one change you're targeting should stay the same. For example, if you want to test the effect of moving your sign-up button to the top of the screen, all messaging, colours, looks and feel of the site should stay the same, except for moving the sign out button to the top of the screen and only the people in the experimental group will see these changes. So the people in the experimental group will see the sign up button at the top of the page and the people in the Control group wont see a change in the location of the sign up button. This way you can see how the people in the two different groups perform and which button placement would result in more sign-ups. Now your Control group doesnt need to be huge. The key is that it is representative of the target population. If you have a really, really large population like thousands and thousands of people, you might only need about 5% of that population to be in your Control group. However, if it's a smaller population, you may need closer to 20 % to be in your Control group. To determine the best sample size for your experiment, there are a ton of free online sample files calculators you can check out. Now to run A/B test, there are a ton of different tools that you can use. For example, Optimize Me allows you to make changes on your website and will run and host the experiment for you. So, let's hear from an expert about A/B testing. After you start seeing changes in the metrics, keep testing. See if you can further perfect your offering, landing page or messaging or whatever it is that you're testing. I don't want you to get discouraged of your hypothesis was wrong. That's actually great. You learned something new. You now know that's not what you need to do to improve your business and you can narrow down other options and keep working through your list of ideas. So let's hear from Talley, who was proven wrong with a hypothesis she once made. So it's interesting, we ran some experiments lately and I'm going to say something really controversial and all the design people are going to be outraged, but what I found out is that the language and the text that you use on your landing page have tremendously more effect than the imagery. So it's interesting, right? We were trying, what you really want to get right is the message, is what you're saying to people that the product is and every single product can be represented probably in 30 different ways. So figure those out and try to find the one sentence that resonates with your user, that they read the sentence and they say, yes, this is it, I want to sign up for that. And we experimented a lot with this language and we improved our conversion rate on the home page by hundreds and hundreds of percentages and then we did the same with the imagery and we thought, oh, now we'll do the imagery and it will be another 100% increase, but not so much. Once we found the right language people just knew, oh, they read it, they knew they wanted it, and they signed up. When you're setting up an A/B test, one of the things you want to have in mind is what's the effect you want to say. Usually we will saw with the metric we want to move. So for instance, if we have a new product like voice messaging and we want more people to put use it, we can assign a test group and a control group where we advertise more heavily to the test group, and see how the product is used differently by the testing control. The first step to diagnosing any problem that you see in your data is cutting it by different dimensions. So a dimension can be pretty much anything. It can be country, if you have an app that's out internationally, it can be by platform if you have out on Android and iOS and by anything else that you know about your users that you can use to try and isolate the issue. If for example, your app is aBarkment and you suddenly see that the number of postings that are going up onto your site have dropped really heavily, you could then cut that by the different interfaces that people can post from. So you can look at the number of posts which are coming from iOS, from Android, and from your desktop site. If you see that one of those is the one that's dropping, you can then look in the code and see if you have a problem with your. An important thing to look out for when doing an A/B test is to make sure that you have enough people going into either side of your experiment, that you can be confident that the result that you're seeing is real, and not just a result of random chance. If you Google for A/B test significance calculator, you can actually get free on line tools where you can put in the number of people going through your experiment and the number of people successfully completing whatever objective it is you have in mind and it can tell you what's called a confidence interval and in the industry normally, we look at a p95. And that means for any result that you see, you can be 95% sure that the experiment is really giving the result and it's not just random chance. And also when you found out which one of your experience is the better one, you can actually roll out that new user experience to everyone. You can do it without having to go through a new App Store submission, either through the Play Store or the App Store. It's great to understand the numbers because the metrics are the foundation that you need in order to make the right decisions for your business. However, sometimes even the numbers can be worthless, if you can't really explain why certain metrics are moving, or why things are happening. This is when you want to hear from your users to get some qualitative answers and reasons. UserTesting.com is a tool that can give you a wealth of information and insights into what users are feeling when they use your product. Let's hear from Mike, VP of [INAUDIBLE] UserTesting.com about UserTesting. So, why do you want to see people actually using your app? Analytics can tell you wonderful things, and it's really important to have the best analytics you can possible get. But what they tell you is, what people are doing and you don't necessarily learn why. So you may see a problem but you don't understand why it's happening. And then you end up learning a whole bunch of different experiments to try to figure out what's going on. And they won't necessarily get you really quickly to the right answer. Where as if you can combine the analytics that tell you what people are doing with the video that tells you why and what they're thinking and stuff like that, you can much more quickly get really, really good overall insight that kind of combine both qualitative and quantitative measures. So it's a way to learn faster. So one example of this sorts of things that people learn from testing the listings for the store is even the art style of the icons can be really, really important. So it's not just what you show, but it's are you doing for instance, a cartoony-type version of the icon, in which case, that kind of suggests a certain type of audience. And sometimes you'll find I don't want to be sexist about this at all, but sometimes what we see is the women sometimes respond better to something so little more cartoon looking because it feels a little bit more friendly. Think of the sort of graphics that you see in a game like Candy Crush which is really aimed at women. Then sometimes you get more hard-edged graphics that with the little more realistic looking and maybe you've got if you got face frowning face that looks aggressive or something like that. Sometimes again, it sounds sexist, but the guys respond better to that sort of thing and so it's not just what you show but it's also how you present it. The graphical style that you use, the artistic style, all that sort of stuff you need be very, very conscious of. Combining analytics and user tests is one of the best things, one of the most fun things that you can do. Because the analytics will give you all sorts of information on what's happening with your application. And you'll inevitably identify some places where people are getting stuck. Oh they get to the third panel and they cant figure out what their, why are they not clicking on the button? It's so freaking obvious to the design team. Right, because we worked on it for nine months now and so it's completely intuitive to us. They're not tapping on that same thing and you'll get disputes within the team sometimes. Religious disputes about well, it's the color. No, no, no, it's the design of the icon. And you could go and run like 15 different AB tests to try to figure out all that stuff, and spend an enormous amount of time. And what we recommend is instead we reach that point. One of your user tests and it doesn't have to be 50, okay. You're not looking for quantitative stuff, this is qualitative, it could be, maybe five. Just to get some reactions from people, give them instructions, go to the screen and then tell me what you're going to do next and talk to me about what you're thinking. So don't just watch what they do but you can prompt them with, I want you to tell me when you look at the screen what are you seeing. And what do you choose to do next? Why do you choose to do that? And usually what you'll find is they're getting confused or their getting distracted by something and half the time it'll be what somebody was arguing within the team and half the time it'll be something that nobody realized. Like oh my, oh my goodness that annoyed them, or that made them feel like they weren't well connected to it and [SOUND], okay. But the good news is that you found out quickly. So you can then for your AB test that's going to follow, you're B version can be affixed to that particular problem. And so with luck maybe he'll only have to do one AB test or maybe you'll only have to do a couple of rounds in order to get it to really really work better. So what it does it is makes your analytics in your AB testing more effective it lets you move through that stuff faster. So you evolve the app faster, you get better quicker and therefore, you are able to reach your ramp point a lot faster. So other things you can do with user tests, the cool thing is you're not just limited to recording what's on the screen and get the end users voice, you can also turn on the backside camera. So something that we've done for some developers is If you've designed an app where you want it to be taken out into the real world you can get some context about how it's being used in those places. To give you an example we did some stuff for one of the major real estate apps and they assumed that the app was going to be used at for home browsing when they're at people are out looking at homes. And what they found instead was that people were using it at home on the couch to plan out where they wanted to go. And so, all of a sudden, you realize the context of the usage of the application is different, so I'm competing with the television. I'm competing with stuff that's playing on the stereo, but that also means different ways you can potentially market to those people. If they're using it at home while they're watching TV, oh, what shows do our target users go after. Are there some ways we could look for placement, or things like that, and obviously, if you're a small start up maybe you don't have the money to look at those sorts of things, but you can still look rather than advertising. Maybe it's placement opportunities or how do I influence the people that I know that they're watching or things like that. So the more context you can get around the life of your user in the situation in which your stuff is being used. The better you're going to be able to be able to tailor your stuff exactly to what those people are going to want. I think another thing is, you can use it also just to kind of interview them. So obviously, you should be talking to your customers all the time, you should be meeting with them. You should be taking them out to coffee or doing whatever. But there may be situations where they're geographically diverse and you want to see what are people thinking in other areas. You can do a user test that just asks them questions and asks them to talk. You don't have to have them using your software. It can just be a way to record a quick interview with these people. Think of it as focus groups, where you don't have to rent a focus group facility, you don't have to schedule these people to come in, you don't have to pay them a whole bunch of money to come in. And then by the way, half of them don't show up and you sit there eating m and m's while you're waiting for somebody to come out. It can be a way to just get some dialogue going with your users and get them talking to you about what they're thinking. So one more interesting use of these sorts of user tests to be aware of is that the videos themselves can be very, very persuasive. So, you may be in a situation as a marketing person where you've gotten an insight about how the customers think, but maybe other people in the company have their own ideas. And you can do the traditional thing, which is you go have a big long argument with them over a whole bunch of different times to gradually move them over, or what you can do is just forward the videos around. And in fact, one small developer I was talking with the other day, they're a company called Trove, that does personal property management for kind of like insurance purposes and stuff like that. And so they've got like a 15 or 20 person staff, and they said, well, we get together and we do viewing parties in the videos and sometimes they're great because they confirm things that we already thought. And sometimes they're really, really painful, but the nice thing is, nobody argues with a use who's saying what they actually think. And you know that these tests are being really effective when you get other members of the team, like engineers or people like that, coming back and saying, I saw this in the video, and I'm starting to think this is the direction we should go, because then you're just educating people. You're not having to argue, you're not having to create friction. It's not taking a long time, but naturally, the team's coming together around these insights. And to me that's one of the best uses of these tests. To wrap up this lesson, we want to make sure we drive home these two main points. It is incredibly important that you're always doing experiments and iterating on your marketing decisions. Don't make assumptions, base your decisions on your research. And don't waste time on planning the best strategy on the first go, just get started. You can iterate on your plan as you go. It's more important to measure and improve your performance than it is to get the absolute perfect plan down. Also, find the right balance between your qualitative insights and your quantitative data that you receive through your experiments and user testing. You want to learn what's happening with your marketing message through your data and why it's happening through your user testing. This way you're going to be able to make more informed decisions in the future. And hopefully, you are in the mindset of building, measuring and learning from marketing experiments on an online basis. Now we really want to congratulate you on completing this course and we wish you the best of luck in your future endeavors. Come back and share [INAUDIBLE] with us when you have them, bye.