Hello and welcome to a tale of analysis and design, featuring Spencer Rugaber, as the librarian, and Alex Orso, as the software engineer. [SOUND] Hi! I'm here waiting for Spencer, my librarian friend. He needs some help developing an information system for a library. So I asked him to write down the requirements for the libra... Oh, [SOUND] that must be him. Hello Alex. Hey Spencer. How's it going? Good. Did you get those requirements I emailed you? Oh, you emailed them. Now let me check. And, by the way, get some coffee for you here. Thank you very much. Oh yeah. They're right here. Let me see. Oh, good. Oh, yeah, good. We have, what we need. So the, the way I like to do this is. I like to start by looking at the requirements and identifying the nouns in the requirements, because those tell us the kind of the relevant elements in the, in the requirements. So if you don't mind we can start looking at those and you can tell me you know, whether the ones that I am identifying make sense or not. Sounds good. All right. Okay so let me start underlining these nouns, and I'll start identifying the ones that are relevant, and I'll ask you some questions or you can ask me questions if you see something that doesn't make sense to you. Good enough. okay, let's see, patron. It seems to me that patron is definitely an important entity. That's, that's what its all about. Okay, all right, so actually, the way I'm going to do this, I'm going to take all these relevant entities and I'm going to start putting them into what I call a class diagram. So you don't really need to know what that is exactly, but imagine this being a, a diagram in which I'm drawing, I represent in all development items as rectangles with a given name and, and then later on some attributes. Okay. Okay, and I'm, I'm just going to put them there. So I'm going to start with patron. I'm going to create one class for the patron. I'm going to give it the name patron. And by the way, assuming that you'd probably figure out, it's important that we represent, we use the right names so that it's clear when we're looking at the class diagram what we're referring to, so I'll just use the, the nouns themselves as names. Okay, library card seems to be also a relevant element. Every patron has a library card. All right, perfect, so we'll just create a library card here. And let's see. As, as long as they're in the system. And I saw that there's a system here, this concept of system, this concept of library. And based on my experience, normally, those are kind of in an overarching themes. So this is really what we are modeling. So the only thing that will make a difference is if there were more than one library or more than one system. Is that the case? We just want one system for our one library Okay so, in this case I won't even represent those because basically what I'm representing is the system and the library. I understand, I understand. Okay and then, oh name, address and phone number are interesting because these are important entities, but this seems like, you know, they're not entities in themselves, so they're more attributes of something else. I would imagine that this is the way you identify, or these are elements that are important for the patron? That's what we take down when we issue the cards. Okay. Perfect. So, I'm going to take those and make those attributes of the patron, which means that I'm going to take the class that I created before, and I'm just going to write them down here so that they're represented and, and we know that these are kind of what characterizes the patron. Gotcha. Okay? And then, I guess similar consideration for the library card number. So this is to be associated with the library card? It's printed right on it. All right, so we'll put this as an attribute of the library card, then. And then, in addition, at any particular point in time. Okay, so time seems to be a relevant entity right, because time seems to occur several times in this description. For example, I think you guys keep track of how long a book has been loaned, right? Right. And there's some time associated also here. And a children's age. Oh yeah. The children's age here that I didn't see before. Yeah. So, what I'm going to do, I'm going to represent this in a sort of generic way, as a date. Okay. These are kind of, kind of classes, utility classes we call them, that are normally in every system. Okay. So I'm just going to put it down here as a utility class that will be used by different elements in the diagram. Okay, so I want to calculate the items. So the items also I mean I for what I know about libraries they seem to be pretty relevant elements, right? So these are all This is what we check out, this is what we're for. Okay, so then items definitely will become a class, and then we have a due. Oh there's also this concept of fines. I guess that seems to be important. Right? You guys give fines to people who are late. Right, right. Right, collect fines and so on. So we create a fine class down here and the children. So children are special customers, right? It's their age makes a difference? Is that the way it works? Right. They, they can only check out a few books. Okay. So I'll create them a special kind of case, a special kind of customer so I just create here a class for children. And I can see that they're categorized by their age. Right. So I'll just put the age here as an attribute of the child. And, okay, so the next one is restriction. And restriction is kind of tricky because just to be sort of a general concept. I mean, in a sense, all of those are restrictions, right? Right, this is just another one of these requirements. Oh, okay, so, so we don't need to represent it explicitly, right? Right, right. It's just telling us how the children, yeah, okay, right; this is just another requirement, so I just won't consider that for now. And oh, I see that these books and audio video materials, I guess these are things that the patrons can check out, right? Those are some of the items, right. There are two more down here, right? Reference books and magazines? But, they can't be checked out, but they're definitely in the library. Okay, so then I'm going to represent all of those actually, now. So, I'm going to have books, I'm going to have audio video materials, reference books, and magazines. And I'm just going to have those as classes. Then, okay here we have week, and we already represented this general concept of time, so week will be represented by the date class as well. And oh, I see best sellers. So best sellers are also, I guess, items that can be checked out, right? Right. Okay, so I'll just represent those as a class as well and an additional item that is relevant for the library. And the limit, this is also a time limit, right? Right. So it can also be represented with a, with a class. Oh, here we have cents, and for cents, same consideration that made for time. This is kind of the money, is a general concept that in all currency, many, in many IT systems. So, I'm, I'm going to just have a money class here, which is another utility class. Okay Okay, and, oh, here I have value, so value is a property. Let me look again at the requirement. Oh, it's the value of the item. So value I'm going to put in the item as an attribute. Okay? Okay. That's how much it cost us. Okay. Perfect. Seems like we got them all. Right? Anything I forgot? That looks like it. Okay, so this one, what I'd like to do. We have a kind of a first take, first cut at the class diagram. I'd like to kind of move to that and go through the different classes with you. And I'll ask you some questions again. And you can tell me whether there is something that jumps at you that's not right. And then we're going to try to refine that. Okay Okay. Sounds good. Okay, so this is our first, class diagram. So, let me ask you something about. Okay. What we've done so far. I also sent, in what I sent you, I also had some stories about how the actual Library is used. You asked me to do that and are we going to take, use that here? Glad you asked actually. yeah. Those are, you know, what we call use cases, or what we will use as scenarios kind of things that we will use to derive use cases. And they're also a very good way of extracting requirements. We're not going to look at them right now because now, because we're more working on kind of the static structure of the system. But after we're done with the class diagram, you know, we will do it at a different time. But we're going to use those to see how the libraries actually use them, and see whether we can get more information that we can use to refine our requirements based on that. Okay. Okay, So, for now, we'll just focus in on the, structure, but, just so you know, I'm, I'm glad you sent them, because they were going very useful as well. Okay. So let's see. Well, first of all, let me, seems like that this is already pretty crowded, right? We have a number of, classes. So let's see if there's, some class that may be superfluous and we can model in a different way. So, for example, you, while, while thinking of this I was thinking, the library card, it doesn't really contain much information, right? So is it basically just the number? The card has a number on it. We have a separate vendor that does that for us so. Oh. We don't need, it doesn't need to be part of this system, we just have to make sure that every patron has a library card. Okay, so basically for you, in a sense, the library card is just an ID that gets associated with a patron. That's right. So I think that the best way to represent this, I mean, unless you need an entity because you are creating it yourself, but it seems like you are not. I would just remove this one and I would like to put this, basically to take the library card number and add it to the pattern. Okay, makes sense. Okay, so I'll add it here. And as an additional attribute. Okay, and it will eliminate this class. Okay. Okay. Oh, and, wait a second, so I guess also the child needs a library card number, right? Child needs a library card number, but let me ask you about that. Is, is child a separate class, or is it just another kind of patron? Oh, I see, I see. Because, yeah, it is sort of a special patron, right? And, so maybe we should, maybe we should represent it as a kind of a refinement of the patron. Hm, but then that made me think. So what is the only thing that characterizes children? Is it just the age? Well, if they're, that they can't check out more than five books. Okay. And the, and the only difference is the fact that they are less than, you know, twelve years old. Twelve or less, right. Twelve or less. So, I guess, you know, I would probably like to represent this by making the age explicit in the patron rather than to represent it as a class. And I'll tell you why, because one, one of the issues, and you know, that might happen again, is that, basically, there are patrons that are children. And they're no longer children, when they come you know 13 or older right. Right. And if we represent them with a separate class in a sense, then we cannot really change the type of an instance of these classes. So we're left to kind of destroy the patron, create a new one, so that means we also have to transfer any history we want to keep history and so on. So I, I think I kind of like better the idea that I represent the age exclusively in the patron, and then I'll behave differently, based on whether the patron is 12 years old, or younger, or 13 or, 13 or older. This, do you see any problem with that? It makes things a little simpler. Okay, and we actually, it allows us also to eliminate one class here. So I'm going to proceed this way. I'm going to eliminate the children class, and I'm going to put the age in the patron. Okay, and let me see. But in this spirit, actually, something else that jumps at me is this idea of the bestseller, because I kind of feel like, we might have the same problem. So, what is the story? What is a bestseller. Well it's an item that we want to restrict how long people can keep, because there is such demand for it. I see, and so basically a book that's a bestseller, like the New York Times bestseller, is a bestseller forever? No, no, no it's hot for awhile, and then it becomes just a regular item. I see. Hm. Then I guess it's a similar situation to the one I was mentioning before, right? Okay. That if we have a book, it will kind of have to change its type if it becomes a best seller. Then we have to change its type again, if it's no longer a best seller. Right. So it seems to me that a better way to represent this, is just to eliminate this BestSeller class and instead, I'm going to put the best seller attribute, which would just be a Boolean in the book. Okay, what do you mean by Boolean? Right. We don't know what Boolean is, right? The Boolean is basically just a number. It can have two values, right? True or false. Okay. So we usually, normally use it in this in this case. Imagine one, zero, right? Then it's just kind of the basic. Okay. You know, the bits, right? Okay. So, this is just telling us, it's like a flag that is telling this book is a best seller, or not. Okay. It's very easy to change this value and make a book a best seller or not a best seller, than just creating and destroying instances of these classes. Okay, makes sense. Okay, so at this point, this already looks better, right? Because we have, less classes, and I think we did, yeah, we did some serious cleanup. That's good. Okay, so now that we eliminated some of this, what I would like to do, as I said, we are going to both clean up, but also refine. I would like to go back to our, requirements and see whether we can identify additional attributes for this, class that maybe are not as obvious as the one that we saw so far, okay? Okay, so let me look at the requirements and it's something that I can see here that we didn't point out before is that there seems to be clearly some concept of a due date. And I'm telling you why I'm saying that because here, for example, I notice that it says when items are due. We mention overdue several times, so is this something we need to keep track of? Yeah remember when we used to stamp them on the books? In the stamp pad? Oh yeah yeah yeah! Oh course! Right? Yeah we definitely keep track of, the system has to keep track of when books are due. Okay. So it seems to me that one good way of doing that is by basically adding an attribute to the, item. Okay. And I'll just call it due date. Okay. So basically for each item in case it's loaned there will be this attribute that will contain the value of Okay. Of when, when the item is due. And then, something else that I noticed here is that down here, it seems like the requirements are saying that an item can be renewed only once. So, I guess, that's something we need to keep track of, right? Yeah. The system needs to know. We have to know whether they've renewed it or not. Okay so, I'll do a similar thing here. I think I want to go and add a an attribute that we'd call number of times renewed, and add it to the item class. Okay. And this is kind of more generic than what you need, because here it says only once, but let's say that in the future you want to allow it to, kind of renew twice, you'll be able to use these attributes again because, we can just count how many times it was renewed. Okay? Makes sense. Alright. And one last thing I want to point out. And this seems obvious but I'm going to check with you anyways. And seems like there is a basically the need to keep track of whether an item is checked out or not. If you look at the text here, the requirements here, I can see that check out and checked out are mentioned five times. So, I'm assuming that that's something also that we want to know about an item, whether it's checked out or not. We have to keep track of whether they're checked out. Okay, so I'll add an additional attribute there. So I'm going to again go back to the diagram and I'm just going to write here also the checked out attribute. And, I think that's it as far as I'm concerned. Is there anything that you think is missing? Well, I do have a question. Would checked out, better not be the case that someone can check out a reference book. Oh, I see, I see. Okay. I mean, it's only the books and the audio visual material that can be checked out. Right, right, right. Okay, so I, I guess, well the way I will fix that is, I'll probably put yet another attribute in the item class, and I'll call it loanable. And basically, this attribute is just telling us whether an item is loanable or not. So, when it's not true and loanable is not on. Basically, that item can be checked out. Okay. And, the system would know this. The system will know that. And prevent it from happening. And prevent it from happening. Okay? Alright. Perfect. So, we're going to do that and, any other objections, any other? No, that was my question. Okay, perfect, so what I'm going to do next, I mean, I haven't mentioned that yet, but you know classes right now we just looked at the attributes right that give you sort of the state of the class. And there's something else, there's a second part of the class that is kind of an orthogonal aspect, which is what the class can do. And we call those operations. So normally these kinds also have operations, I guess you know it would make sense to you as well. And one way, one very natural way to identify operations is to look at the requirements and look for verbs. Because verbs associated with an item will tell you basically what the item can do. Okay. So I, I'd like to go back to the requirements and start, the same way in which we underlined, nouns, we're going to underline verbs and we're going to see which ones of those verbs actually represent actions that we want to represent explicitly, we want to model explicitly in our class diagram. Okay. Okay. And before we get started actually, I'd like to mention that there's just, you know, FYI, there's different kinds of verbs because what I'm looking for is really action verbs. So verb, verbs that clearly express an action that can tell me that, you know, what, for example, an item could do, 'kay? Okay? Not the verbs that represent, for example, relationships, 'kay? Okay. So, and the, there, and the ones that I've identified und, underlined here actually, I, I underlined complete sentences so that you kind of we can look at the verbs in in context. And the first one is this sentence that says that the library may need to know or to calculate the items a patron has checked out, when they are due, and any outstanding overdue fines. So I, I will imagine that this is representing a situation in which you bring up a patron's record and you start looking up this information. Is that [CROSSTALK] The, the patron often wants to know what they have currently checked out. Oh, alright. Or when are their due or how much they're owed or. Oh, in fact, and then now that you mentioned it, I think you sent me. One of the scenarios you sent me had to do with that, right, with the patron coming in and asking for this information. So yeah, and it makes a lot of sense. So what I'm going to do, I'm going to model this by adding this three operations to the patron method. The first one, I'm going to call, itemsCheckedOut and, basically, it's an operation, but you don't need to, you know, understand the implementation details, but when you call this operation, it will give you back exactly this information, so the items that are checked out by that patron. The second one, I'm going to call it whenDue. That will tell you basically when a, when an item is due. And the third one is going to be called the outstandingOverdueFines and, you know, as the name says, it's going to tell you what are the outstanding overdue fines for that patron. Okay. And as you might notice I mean, I, I'm going to separate the, the, the attributes from the operations by having a separate kind of subrectangle so, in this way, it's clear what is attribute and what is, what is an attribute and what's an, what's an operation. Gotcha. And let me see then. Okay, for the second one you can see that that patron can check out books and audio visual materials. So I guess, similarly you, you build kind of the record for a patron. The patron will give you an item and you will record the fact that the patron is kind of checking it out. Right. And is that operation related to this, the checked out attribute that we did a minute ago? It is actually because what will happen then again, you know, if we jump ahead a little bit would be that every time you invoke this operation. So I'm going to represent this as a checkOut operation for the patron. Every time you invoke this, you will also have to say something about the item and so we will also flip kind of that that, that build information in the, in the, in the item. Okay. Mm, 'kay? And, and finally, here, I can see that a patron can request a book or an audio video item Is not currently in. So I guess this is referring to items that are already checked out but for which there is interest. Is that? Right. So, particularly, the popular items the patrons want to get on the list so that they get notified when it comes back in and. Oh. And check it out. I see. I see. Okay. Then I'm going to do the same thing here. I'm, I'm going to add this method, which I'm going to call request and I'm going to put it here in the list of the methods in the list. Okay. Of operations for the, for the patron, okay? OK I like the way this class diagram is coming along. So at this point I think we have all the classes that we need. For each class we specified the attributes or the characteristics of the class. And we also specified the operations so we know what the class can do And, I like to kind of move forward on this, but I first want to see that you're fine with the class structure. So that's the way the class structure is going to be in terms of attributes and operations. So anything that bothers you? Well, one thing I didn't understand is how come you put check out over where the patron when it's really the item being checked out? Right. Okay. So that actually is you know, is a perfect segway for the next thing that really wanted to model. Because what you're talking about is basically a relationship between two classes which is something we haven't touched on yet. So we haven't, haven't looked at individual classes. But now, it is typical, now we are looking more at requirements, we're starting to find more things about our system, and what you're pointed out right now is the fact that patron and item are somehow related. So this checkout operation is not really something that belongs only on in the patron, because it needs to know about the item. And it doesn't belong only on the item because it needs to know about the patron. So, it's something that associates the patron and the item. Okay. And that's exactly the way we call in the UML which is the notation that we're using here this kind of relationship. So, we're going to represent that by drawing a line between these two classes that tells us there is an association. And we're also going to give a name to this. Since this refers to the fact of checking out items. We're just going to call it, checkout. Gotcha. And notice that this basically you know,eventually will end up kind of replacing this attribute. Because the existence of this association will tell us that this is checked out. We're, we're not going to, you know, do it right now, but in the final cleanup or the diagram, this name will disappear. Okay. Okay. And so since we started talking about relationships and associations, is there any other kind of relationship that you see here? Well, what you just did with checked out is, it seems similar to the whole issue of requests. It is, it is. So a request is something else that happens in both, you know, in the patron and in the item, it involves both. And in fact in a request, I would definitely represent this as an additional association. So I will just draw an another line between these two that represent that specific kind of relationship and I will call it request. So that indicates that this association refers to a request that also connects the patron with an item. Okay. And, let's see. Any, anything else that jumps at you? Yeah, well, how about all these ones down at the bottom? I mean book and item's got to be related, right? A book is a kind of item, And audiovisual... are there associations between them? Can you repeat that, you said that the book, yeah? Is a kind of item. Perfect, that's exactly what we're modeling next, which is, this, what we call the is-a relationship. So you said, a book is an item? A book is an item. And, we can model that in the diagram. So, we do that using another kind of relationship between the classes. So we're going to represent that as a specialization we call it. And, a specialization is indicated in this way. Okay? With this arrow at the end, so a solid with this kind of arrow at the end. And we can do the same for book, magazine, reference book and audiovisual material. So we're all going to connect, we're going to connect all of them, to the item, using the same kind of connection. And now that we have connected all these four, with item and indicated them in subclasses. That's something else that we can do. So we can make this kind of cleaner. And I'll tell you what I mean by that. So now we have this loanable attribute that refers to item, but it seems to me from what you were saying before, that loanable is not really an attribute of an item. Right? It's more of a characteristic of the type of item. Right. Is that right? Right. Books, and audio/visual are loanable but the others aren't. Okay, and so representing it here, it's okay to, it will work. But it's not really right so from the style standpoint it doesn't really you know, it's not the best way of modeling this. What we're going to do instead, we're going to use this specialization relationship to make that more explicit. To make it cleaner. Okay, so what I'm doing here is I'm going to take this hierarchy of classes, this is just on two levels now, and I'm going to kind of make it a little richer. So I'm going to add an intermediate set of classes. And in particular I'm going to have these two classes that I'm going to call non loanable item and loanable item. So, they're both items but they tell me clearly that some items are loanable and some items are not. Okay. Okay. And then I'm simply going to put book and audio video material as subclasses of loanable item and reference book and magazine as subclasses of non-loanable item. So, if we look at this diagram now it's pretty clear what is loanable and what is not. And it's actually is a very clean, much cleaner design. And, and I see you've, gotten rid of the loanable attribute, too. I did. Because at this point this is already represented by the fact of having these two classes. And actually, something else that I did is that I moved all these attributes, value, due date, renewed and checked out, that makes sense only for loanable item. From item to loanable item. So at this point, this really is telling me that, you know, these characteristics are just meaningful for the loanable item, and not for the other ones. Well, speaking of that, the way that you got the lines going in the diagram here is you still have request and checked out going to item, even though you can't request non loanable Items. You can't check out non loanable Items. Oh, you were right actually. You got me on that one. You're exactly right. So this associations are between the two wrong classes. So, I guess, at this point, you can probably go and fix the diagram yourself. Well, can we just make the lines go from patron to loanable item instead of to item? That's exactly the way in which we are going to fix it. So, we're going to move these two associations down here. And at this point, this will represent the right relationships in the, in the diagram, and in the system. Makes sense to me. Spencer, I gotta tell you, I'm impressed. You're getting very good at this. So, why don't you go wild and continue, there anything else you think we can improve here? Well something was bothering me, that what happens if there's more than one book with the same title and somebody puts in a request? Oh, I see. That's a good point. So basically what you are telling me is there's kind of a difference between an item and the title, so the title is kind of a more general concept, in a sense. So if you can have multiple copies of a given title, is that right? Yeah, we have five copies of Tom Sawyer, and the persons, the patrons, really putting in a request for any Tom Sawyer. They don't want like copy number three of Tom Sawyer, right? They want, they want to read Tom Sawyer. Okay and I can represent that. So, in which I suggest we do that, and you can tell me whether it makes sense to you is by introducing an additional class, which I call Title. And that represents exactly the concept that you're mentioning. So this is a title which represents some specific content. That is not related to a specific physical element. Like it can be rated to multiple, physical elements. So basically I'm going to create this title. And then I'm going to create a relationship between the title and the item. And what the relationship is telling me, the the association between these two in this case. Is an association, that we call aggregation. So it's a special kind of association, that basically indicates that an item of this type, so a title can consist of a multiple elements of this type of multiple items. So it's telling me that one title can consist of multiple items, and I'm going to indicate it with this annotation, which is a this diamond at the top of the association. And so we can move our request line, up from loanable item to title, because that's what they're really requesting. Definitely, definitely, and in fact, you know, that represents exactly the situation that you are mentioning, at this point when the patron makes a request. It makes a request to a title and not to a loanable item. And then, and when the actual loan will take place, then that will be connected to a specific item. Right. Okay that makes sense. Makes sense? Yeah. Okay, good. Okay, so let me see if anything changed after we did this last modification. Acutally, there is someting that I would like to do here. Because looking at this a little bit more, I noticed that there are two attributes, renewed and due date. That we have in loanable Item, right? But they don't seem to be really, attributes or characteristics of loanable Item. They're more of the characteristics of the association between the Loanable Item and the patron. Wouldn't you agree? Well, yeah, it's not like you could only renew a book once in it's entire history. Right. Exactly, exactly. So, that's why what l like to do is I would like to move those out of loanable item. And actually there is a construct that we can use to express this. It's called, we haven't seen it yet, but it's a special kind of class. It's called an association class. So, it's a class that is connected to a specific association. So what we can do here, we can create this class, which I'm going to call checked out. I'm going to, associate it with this, association. I'm going to connect it with this association. And then I'm going to move the due date and the renewed attributes From the LoanableItem here in this checked out class. So in this way, seems to me that it makes it very explicit for somebody looking at this class diagram, that these characteristics are characteristics of the loan, and not of the elements involved in the loan. Can you do the same thing with Fine, isn't Fine a property of the loan? Yeah, actually is right because a fine is a fine for a specific loan, right? That's correct. Okay, so yeah. Then we can do that. We don't need to represent fine as a class, we can just transform that into an attribute that we can put into the checked out association class. Gotcha. Anything else? Yeah. It occurred to me that there's another thing that happens in one of my scenarios, I put down about the patron actually returning an item. Right. Okay, so we would probably need an additional operation, I guess, for the patron. Right. So, okay, so what I'm going to do, that's pretty easy to do, I'm just going to add the return operation here in the patron, and when that happens, that will mean that I'll get rid of this association class because the item is returned. Is that right? Well, what happens if somebody drops the book in the book drop, but doesn't pay the, if it's overdue and doesn't pay the fine? Will that get rid of the information about what they owe? Oh, I see. So you can have the item being available, but you still want to know whether there is any pending fines on the book. Uh-huh, and how much those fines are. And how do you compute how much it is? It's how many days it was, from the time it was due, to when they returned it. I see. OK. So you know what we can do? I think we can put an additional attribute in the checked out class and I'm going to call it when returned and that item will have either a special value or it will contain the date in which the book was returned. So in this way you should be able to keep this in the system until it's paid, and also to compute how much the fine is. Is that working? So the special value is for a normal situation when they haven't, they don't owe anything and haven't returned it yet. Exactly so that will tell us that, that the loan is still active basically. Great. Does that work for you? Yes. And you know, I like this. I mean, I feel pretty good about it. I think we have a nice class diagram. So what I'd like to do is just go off and clean it up a little bit, and put it in an IDE so I can pretty print it and rearrange things a little bit. And then I'd like to sit down again and just go through it for a last time. And for some final considerations. So if you don't mind we will take a ten minute break and reconvene here. That's fine. Alright. Okay. So this is what I've done as you see, it looks a little nicer than it was before. And I didn't really change that much. I just made a few changes, so I just wanted to point them out to you, so that you know what they are. And the main thing, one of the main things I did is really to introduce these derived attributes. So these are attributes that are basically computed. Based on some other attributes. Okay, they don't have a value themselves, but their value is computed. And I used two. The first one is age. So basically we know the age of the patron based on the birthday, of the patron. So you guys, I don't know if you have that information currently in the system. No, we'll have to add that to the form patrons fill out, when they get their card. Is that, that an issue? Can you do it? No yes, we, we can easily do that. Okay, so then, perfect. So we'll do it that way. I think it's a, in a little cleaner. And similarly, since you told me that the fine was computed based on the amount of days that an item was late. The patron was late returning the item, then I also added this as a derived attribute that is computed based on the due date and when the item is actually returned. Makes sense. Makes sense? Okay. And the rest is kind of really minor things. So the, the only one I want to point out is I didn't, you know, discuss that with you before, but I added this, which is called cardinality for some of these relationships. And what they say is basically is how many elements are involved in the relationship. So, you mean the stars? Yeah, like the stars and the one... Okay. Here for example, this is telling you that for each item there is only one title. And that for each title, there are multiple items. So, star means many. Stars mean many, yeah. Okay, go you. Sorry that's kind of computer science lingo - we use the star for that kind of stuff. And, similarly, for the patron, it's telling me that, you know, each patron can have multiple, can request multiple titles, and that the same title can be requested by multiple patrons, which I think is the way the system works. Right. So except for these minor changes, we already had a pretty good model in our hands, so I think is a, we can finalize this and then just move to the low level design and then implementation, and be done with the system. Sounds good. So Spencer, now that we went through this process and, I'd just like to hear whether you enjoyed it, whether you think it was useful. What are your thoughts? Well, ti was very interesting. I not only learned something about computers and about how you design information systems in UML, but I, it was interesting. I also learned something interesting about the library. And things that, that I knew but I never really, explicitly written down. Uh-huh. Came up during the course of doing this. And I think I now much better understand what this information system that you're going to build for us, is really all about. Okay, well, I mean, I'm very happy that you say that, because I really believe that, you know, doing this kind of analysis and design exercises really helps you figuring out whether there's any issues with the requirements. So for example, you can find out whether there's any missing information, or maybe conflicting information. And I think that's exactly what happened today. So I'm very glad to hear that it worked for you. That you enjoyed it. I hope you enjoyed it as well. And I strongly encourage you to do this kind of exercises for different kinds of systems. So as you can become more familiar with analysis and design techniques. So, any final thoughts? I look forward to receiving your delivered software. All right. Will do. In previous lessons, we covered testing principles and techniques. In this lesson, we will discuss a type of software process that is heavily based on the use of testing. The agile development process. Also called test-driven development. To do that, we will revisit some of the assumptions that led to the definition of the more traditional software processes. The ones that we discussed so far. We will see how, when some of these assumptions are no longer valid, we can change the way in which we look at software processes. And we can change the way in which we look at software development in general. We will discuss how this changing perspective, lets us rethink software processes and make them more agile and better suited for context in which changes are the norm and we need to adapt fast. In particular, we will discuss two processes that apply the principles of agile software development and that are commonly used in industry. Extreme programming, also called XP, and Scrum. [BLANK_AUDIO] We will start our discussion about test written and development by going back to a softer life cycle to examine a little bit ago which is the waterfall life cycle. And if you remember, that was a totally rigid process in which we were preparing documents and we were not studying any phase before the previous one was finished. And once a phase was finished, we were really going back to it. So today we are going to examine how it is possible to go from such a rigid process to an agile one, in which we can better deal with changes. So remember what we saw in the first lesson when Barry Boehm stated that the cost of change grows exponentially with time. So if we imagine to have time over here on the x-axis and cost on the y-axis, we can see the cost that will go up more or less this way. And what that means is finding a problem while collecting requirements will cost you much less than finding a problem in the analysis phase, which in turn, will cost you less than finding a problem during design, and so on for the subsequent phases. So if this is the case, and cost is really growing this fast as we proceed in our process, what should we do? The key thing is to discover errors early before they become expensive, which in turn means doing a lot of upfront planning. And because models are cheaper to modify in code, we're willing to make large investments in upfront analysis and design models. And only after we have built and checked these models, we're going to go ahead and build the code. In other words, we are following a waterfall mentality. However, something definitely changed in the last 30 years. For example, 30 years ago, we needed to walk down the hall, submit a deck of cards to an operator, and wait a day for our program to run and produce some results. Today we can leverage the computational power of the cloud. Computers used to be very slow and very expensive. Today, computer are a thousand times faster and a thousand times cheaper than what they used to be. In particular, if you think about the compile and test cycle, that has gone from days to seconds. Now we can change our code, compile it, run it our tests, all in a matter of instants, something that was unthinkable before. Finally, developers in the past had to do a lot of tasks manually in a very time-consuming way and often in a very painful way. Today, on the contrary, we can now automate a lot of these tasks. We have high level programming languages, version control systems, smart ideas. Basically a whole set of tools that can help developers. And they can make them more efficient. In general, what that means is, it's easy to change, much easier than what it was before. So maybe if we take all that into account, the cost of change can be flat. So if we go back to our diagram, the one in which we showed the cost with respect to the project time, maybe instead of having this kind of curve, we might have a different kind of curve. Maybe the curve is more like this one. So maybe we can make all of this happen, as long as we use tools, practices and principles in the right way. And we're going to see what that means. And assuming that cost is flat that we can really lower that curve then teher are a few interesting consequences. First of all upfront work becomes a liability, we pay for speculative work some of which is likely to be wrong. Some of which we are likely to undo and the reason for ambiguity and volability for example in requirements then it's good to delay We don't want to plan for something that might never happen, to invest resources in something that we might have to throw away later on. In general, if cost is flat it is cost effective to delay all decisions until the last possible moment and only pay for what we use, so to speak. In other words, there is value in waiting, time answers questions and removes uncertainty. And we want to take advantage of that. This and other considerations led to the birth of Agile Softer Development. Specifically for those of you who are interested in a little bit of history. In February 2001 a group of software developers, 17 of them, met to discuss lightweight development methods and published Manifesto for Agile Software Developement. Which introduces and defines the concept of agile software development, or agile methods. In a nutshell, agile methods aim at flat cost and a decrease in traditional overhead by following a set of important principles. Our first principle is to focus on the code, rather than the design, to avoid unnecessary changes. Another principle is to focus on people, value people over process, and make sure to reward people. In addition agile methods are all based on iterative approaches to software development, to deliver working software quickly, and to be evolve it Just as quickly based on feedback. And feedback can come from many sources, in particular, it'll come from the customer, it'll be customer feedback. And to be able to do so, agile methods need to involve the customer throughout the development process. Finally, there are two more principles I want to mention. Which are cornerstones of agile methods. The first one is the expectation that requirements will change, and therefore, we need to be able to handle some changes. We can't count on the requirements to be still and unmutable. And the last principle is the mentality of simplicity. Simple design and simple code and so on. But be careful, because simple does not mean inadequate, but rather, as simple as possible. So now let's talk about a specific agile method, which is also one of the first ones, extreme programming, also called XP. And to introduce XP, I'm going to start with a quote. The quote says XP is a lightweight methodology for small to medium sized teams developing software in the face of vague or rapidly-changing requirements. And this is a quote from Kent Beck the American Software Engineer that created extreme programming. And by the way Beck was one of the original 17 developers who signed the manifesto in 2001. And as you can see we are still talking about the methodology. So we are not just talking about going out and just start writing software. There are principles. And there are practices that we need to follow, but we're going to do it in a much more agile, and a much more flexible ways than we did for our software processes. And also note that the vague and rapidly changing requirements are explicitly mentioned, because this is really one of the important parts about all of this agile methodologies. so what is XP? XP is a. Lightweight. Humanistic. Discipline. Of software development. It is lightweight because it doesn't overburden the developers with an invasive process. So process is kept to a minimum. It's humanistic because as we said, it's centered on people. People, developers, customers, are at the center of the process. It's a discipline, as we said, it includes practices that we to Follow. And finally, is of course about software development. Software development is a key point of the whole method. In XP, developing is like driving, imagine having a road, a wind road, we need to able to drive our car down the road, take the abrupt turns, react promptly to changes, for example obstacles on the road. So, in a nutshell, change is the only constant. Eyes always have to be on the road and it's about steering and not pointing, and XP is trying to do the same thing, while creating softer systems. In XP we need to adopt a mentality of sufficiency, what does that mean? How would you program if you had all the time in the world? No time constraints at all, you will probably write tests instead of skipping them, because there's no more resources. You will probably restructure your code often, because you see opportunities to improve it, and you will take them. And you will probably talk to fellow programmers and with the customer, interact with them, and this is actually the kind of mentality that XP is trying to promote and agile processes in general. And we will see that the following some of the practices that XP is advocating, you can actually achieve these goals and you can actually behave in this way. And the development process is going to benefit overall. Next I'm going to go over some of the XP's values and principles that I just hinted on earlier in the lesson. The first one, the first important value is communication. There is no good project without good communication. And XP tries to keep the right communication flowing and it uses several practices to do that. It's got practices based on and require information and in general share the information. For example, pair programming. And we're going to say more about that. User stories, customer involvement, all activities that help communication, that faster communication. Another important principle that we already saw, is simplicity. And the motto here is live for today without worrying too much about the future. When you have to do something, look for the simplest thing that works. And the emphasis here is on, that works. We want to build something simple, but not something stupid. Feedback. That's extremely important in XP, and it occurs at different levels, and it is used to drive changes. For example, developers write test cases. And that's immediate feedback. If your test cases fail, there's something wrong with the code. Or there's something that you still haven't developed. Developers also estimate new stories right away as soon as they get them from the customers and that's immediate feedback to the customer. And finally, on a slightly longer time frame, customers and tester develop together functional system test cases to assess the overall system. And also in this case, that's a great way to provide feedback and by the way, also to help communication. And finally, courage, the courage to throw away code if it doesn't work. To change it if you find a way to improve it. To fix it if you find a problem. To try out new things if you think that they might work better than what you have right now. Now, that we can build and test systems very quickly, we can be much braver than what we were before. So how do we accomplish all that? And what are XP's practices that are going to help us follow these principles and adhere to those values? These are some of XP practices. There are more, but those are the ones that I'd like to discuss in a little more depth, individually. Incremental planning, small releases, simple design, test first, refactoring. We will actually have a whole lesson next on refactoring. Pair programming, continuous integration, and on-site customer. So let's start with incremental planning. Incremental planning is based on the idea that requirements are recorded on story cards, sort of use cases or scenarios that the customer provides. So the first step in incremental planning is to select user stories for a given release, and which stories exactly to include depends on the time available and on the priority. For example, scenarios that we might want to realize right away because they are particular important for the customer. After we select user stories for the release, we break stories i to tasks. So what we do, we take the user stories and we identify specific development tasks that we need to perform in order to realize these stories. Once we know our tasks, we can plan our release. And at that point, we can develop, integrate and test our code. And of course, this is more kind of an iterative process right here, so we do this many times. When we're ready, when we accomplish all of our tasks, all of our tests pass and we're happy, we release this software. At the point, the released software is evaluated by us, by the customer, and we can reiterate. We can continue the process, select more stories and continue it this way. The first practice that we just saw goes together with small releases practice. This idea that instead of having a big release at the end of a long development cycle, we try to release very often. And there are many advantages to small releases and to releasing often. The first one is that we deliver real business value on a very short cycle. And what that means is that we get business value sooner, and that in turn increase our customer confidence and makes the customer more happy. So more releases also mean rapid feedback. We release the software soon, we get feedback from the customer soon, and we can in this way do exactly what we were saying before, steer instead of driving, adapt weekly to possible changes in the requirements. We avoid working for six months on a project and find out six months later that the customer wanted something else and we got the wrong requirements. In addition having small releases, so seeing your product deployed and released soon produces a sense of accomplishment for the developers. And in addition, it also reduces risk because again, if we're going down the wrong path, we will know right away. If we're late, we will know right away. So these are just additional advantages of having this quick cycle and more releases. And finally, as we also said before, we can quickly adapt in the case our requirements change our code to the new requirements. The next practice is simple design. We want to avoid creating a huge complicated possibly cumbersome design at the beginning of the project. What we want to have instead is just enough design to meet the requirements, so no duplicated functionality, fewest possible classes and methods in general, just the amount of design that we need to get our system to work. So one might object that to for designing that way we will have to change the code a lot, we will need to adapt the design as the code evolves, and that's exactly the point. That's what we will do. XP is all about changing and adapting, changing your design, changing your code, refactoring. And with the fact that we have test cases throughout the development process, we can do that with confidence. Because if we break something we will know right away, which leads us to the next practice. Which is test-first development. The key idea is that any program feature that doesn't have an automatic test simply does not exist. If there is a feature, you need to write a test for the feature before. So, what developers do is to create unit tests for each such piece of functionality even before the functionality is implemented. And of course, when you run this test, they will fail. But the beauty of it is that, as you write your code and you add more and more fractionality to the feature that you're developing, these test cases are going to start to pass. And that's extremely rewarding because it gives you immediate feedback, again feedback on the fact that you're developing the code in the right way. As soon as you write it, you will know. And if you write a piece of code and the test says still fail, that means that the code is not doing what it's supposed to do. A couple of minutes ago we talked about the fact that well, we might need to change our design a lot, so how we going to do that, that's going to be expensive. Well it's not very expensive, if we can do efficient refactoring. Which is another one of the important xp practices. And what does it mean to refactor? It means to take a piece of code who's design might be suboptimal, because for example, we evolved it, we didn't take into account that from the beginning some of the features that had to be added later, probably because we didn't even know about this feature, because the requirements evolved. So we're going to take this piece of code and we're going to restructure it, so that it becomes simple and maintainable. Developers are expected to refactor as soon as opportunities for improvement, are found. And that happens for example, before adding some code. You might look at the code that you're about to modify, or to which you are about to add parts, and say can we change the program to make the addition simple, that has maintainability or we can do it after adding some code to our code base. We might look at the code, the resulting code, and say well can we make the program simpler? Was the running all the tests and the key point here is that we don't want to refactor on speculation, but we want to refactor on demand, on the system, and the process needed. Again the goal is just to keep the code simple and maintainable, not to over do it. And as I mentioned before we're going to have a whole lesson, the next lesson on refactoring. So we're going to go in more depth in the discussion of this topic. The next practice I want to discuss is a very important one in XP, and also one of the scandal, controversial, and it's the practice of pair programming. What does it mean? It means that all production code is written with two people looking at one machine. And not that they're, they're working with one keyboard and one mouse or they're not just interfering and writing on each other's code. And the way in which that happens is by playing different roles at different times. So the two developers alternate between the role of programming and strategizing, where strategizing means, for example, looking at the code that has been written and thinking whether that would work. Or what other tests that are not there might not work, given the way the code is being written. Or maybe looking at the code from a, you know, slightly detached perspective and trying to figure out whether the code can be made simpler, more maintainable, more efficient. And interestingly, there are measurements, there are studies that suggest that development productivity with pair programming is similar to that of two people working independently. And that answers one of the main objections against pair programming, which is why should I put two developers together, which is going to cut their productivity in half. It is not. Studies shows that that does not happen. And that the resulting code can actually benefit from the fact that two developers are working together. An important practice to get all of this to work is continuous integration, which means integrating and testing every few hours, or a day at most, because we don't want problems to pile up and to be discovered too late when there are too many of them to fix. So what goes on here is a cycle. And the cycle starts with the developer's programming, as soon as the developers are done modifying the code and they have a stable version they will run the local tests. If the local tests fail, the developers will go back to programming to fix their code and possibly add new code as needed, and this cycle, mini cycle will continue until all the local tests pass. At that point the developers can integrate their code with the code of other developers. And they can run test for the integrated system, and when they run this test again there are two possibilities. The test might fail, and if the test fails you broke it, and therefore you'll have to fix it. So developers will have to go back and modify the system and again going through the cycle of running the local tests, integrating, and running the systems tests. Conversely, if all the systems tests pass, then at that point the code is good to go and it is integrated into the system. And it will be the problem of some other developers if something breaks because at the time you integrated your code, the code was compiling, running and passing the tests successfully. So again, if we do this every few hours or every day, we can find problems very early, and we can avoid the situations in which we have many different changes coming from many different developers in a integration nightmare as a result. The last practice I want to mention is on-site customer, and what that means is that literally the customer is an actual member of the team. So the customer will sit with the team and will bring requirements to the team and discuss the requirements with them. So the typical objection to this practice is the fact that it's just impossible in the real world. There is no way that the customer can have one person staying with the team all the time, and the answer to that objection is that if the system is not worth the time of one customer then maybe the system is not worth building. In other words, if you're investing tons of dollars, tons of money in building a system, you might just as well invest a little more and have one of the people in the customer's organization stay with the team and be involved in the whole process. Now that we saw what the main values and practices of XP are, I want to go back for a minute to discussion of requirements engineering in XP. In XP, user requirements are expressed as scenarios or user stories, as we already discussed. These are written by customers on cards, and what the development team does is to take these cards, take these users stories and break them down into implementation tasks. And those implementation tasks are then used as a basis for scheduling cost estimates. So given these estimates, and based on their priorities, the customer will choose the stories that will be included in the next release, in the next iteration. And at this point, the corresponding cards will be taken by the developers and the, the task will be performed, and the relative, and the corresponding card will be developed. And just to give an idea of the order of magnitude, if you consider a few months project, there might be 50 to 100 user stories for a project of that duration. So, now let me give you an example of what the story card might look like, and I'm going to do it using a story card for document downloading and you can really do all of this, basically as seeing what the scenario is, downloading and printing an article. And it describes basically what happens when you do that, what is the scenario. First, you select the article that you want from a displayed list. You then have to tell the system how you will pay for it. This can either be through a subscription, through a company account or by credit card, and so on. So what developers do, they take this story card, and they break it down in to development tasks. So, here I'm showing you some examples of task cards for the user story that we just saw. In particular I'm showing three task cards and if we look at the third one, there is a name for the task, which is implement payment collection. So this is the development task that we have the perform and here, there's a description of what that developed code should do. And notice that, you know, the task card can even be more. explicit than this, more specific than this, and talk about actual development tasks. As you probably realized by now, at job development, it's a lot about testing. So there is a lot of emphasis on testing. Testing first, te, testing early. So that's the reason why I also want to discuss what is the testing strategy in XP. So first of all what is the basic principle? The basic principle is that testing is Coded confidence. You write your test cases and then you can run them anytime you want. And if they pass, they'll give you confidence that your code is behaving the way it's expected. If they don't pass on the other hand, you'll know that there's something to fix. Another important concept is that test might be isolated and automated. So both the running and the checking of the tests has to be automated for all of this to work. And there are two types of tests. The first type of test is unit tests, that are created by the programmers, and they're created by looking at the task cards. The task cards describe what they implemented, functionality should do, and therefore allows the developers. The right test that can test this functionality. That can check that the code's correctly implemented functionality. And as we said, you should really test every meaninful feature. So, for example, you should test every meaningful method in your classes. You should put specific attention to possibly complex implementations, special cases or specific problems that you might think of. while reading the task cards. In some cases, when you do refactoring, you might also want to write test cases specific to that refactoring. But we'll say more about that. So this was for the first kind of tests that are involved in the, in the XP process. The second kind of tests are the system tests, also called acceptance tests. And those tests involve the customer. So basically what happens is that the customer provides the test cases for their stores and then the development team transforms those into actual automated tests. So these are tests created by the developers. They run very quickly and they run very frequently. These are tests developed with the help, with the involvement of the customer they run longer. And run less frequently, they run every time the system is integrated. According to the cycle we saw a few minutes ago. Now that we are done discussing XP Extreme Programming, I would like to have a quiz, in which I make sure that some of the concepts behind XP are well understood. So, I'm going to ask you which of the following statements about Extreme Programming are true, and here are the statements. Because of pair programming, XP requires twice the number of developers. In XP, code is rarely changed after being written. XP follows the test driven development, or TDD, paradigm. The customer does not need to provide any requirements in XP. XP is an iterative software development process. So I would like for you to mark all of the statements that you think are true about XP. The first statement is false. It is not true that because of pair programming, we need twice as many developers. In fact that there is some evidence that even though in pair programming we have two developers working together, that the overall efficiency of the programmers is not really affected by use of this practice. In XP, code is rarely changed after being written. This is also definitely false. In fact in XP there is a lot of emphasis on change on the fact that the code can be changed, it can be resigned, because of the fact when we do that, we have a set of these cases that we can use to check right away that the code still works as expected. So again in XP, it's all about steering rather than just driving down one fixed direction. And therefore, the code can be changed. So this statement is false. It is definitely true that XP follows the test driven development paradigm. In XP we first write tests, and then we write the code, which is exactly what TDD is about. It is not true that the customer does not need to provide requirements in XP. The customer does provide requirements in the form of user stories, and the user stories are the starting point of the development process. Finally, XP is definitely an iterative software development process. In fact, we saw that XP is based on subsequent iterations of the same cycle, in which we select from a set of story cards, or user stories, the stories that we want to implement in the next iteration. Based on that we develop task cards, and then we use the task cards to write this case and then to write code. And we continue this cycle in an iterative way until we are done with all the story cards, and all the user stories, so definitely XP is an iterative software development process. Before concluding this class on java development, I want to talk about another process that is very popular these days, and it's used in many companies, which is called Scrum. Which similar to XP is another agile development process, and I'm going to start by discussing what the Scrum actors are. There's three main kinds of actors. The first one is the product owner, which means the customer. The product owner is mainly responsible for the product back log, where the product back log is basically the list of things that have to be done, the back log in fact for the project. And that is analogous to the user stories to be realized in XP, that we just saw. So what the product owner does is to clearly express these back log items, and to also order them by value, so they can be prioritized. The second actor is the team. The team is responsible for delivering shippable increments to estimate the back log items. It's normally self-organized, consists of four to nine people, and it's what you would consider normally as the main development team in a project. And finally we have the Scrum master. The Scrum master is the person who's responsible for the overall Scrum process, so he or she has to remove obstacles, facilitate events, helps communications, and so on. So you you can see the Scrum master as sort of a manager or the person who's got oversight, or the supervisor of the Scrum process. So I want to conclude this lesson by providing a high level view of this scrum process. The process is represented here, and as you can see it has several components. We're going to go through all of them one at a time. We're going to start with a product backlog. Product backlog is the single source of requirements, for the process. They're order by value raised priority necessity, so that all of this characteristics can be taken into account when selecting which backlog items to consider for the next iteration. It's a living list in the sense that backlog items can be added or removed. And it's not really defined as we just said, by the product owner. In the sprint planning, what happens is that the next increment or the next sprint is defined. So basically, the backlog items of interest are selected based on the characteristics we just mentioned: value, [UNKNOWN], priority, and necessity. And the items are converted into tasks and estimated. So the result is this sprint backlog, which is the set of backlog items that will be completed during the next sprint. The sprint is an actual iteration of this scrum process. It's got a main part that lasts two to four weeks, and within this main part, there are many daily scrums that last 24 hours. So let's see how this work. A daily scrum is typically characterized by a 50-minute meeting at the beginning of the day for the team to sync, and what happens during the meeting is that there is a discussion of the accomplishments since the last meeting. A to do list for the next meeting is produced, and there is also an obstacle analysis. So if some problem appear, they're discussing the daily scrum, and possible solutions are proposed. At the end of the two four-week cycle, there is a sprint review and retrospective. The sprint review normally consists of a four hour meeting. In the meeting, the product owner assesses the accomplishment for the specific sprint, and the team discusses issues that were encountered and solved. There is typically a demo of the deliverable for that sprint. And at that point, the product owner will also discuss the backlogs. And together with the team they will decide what to do next. In the retrospective conversely what happens is there is more focus on the process. So the goal of that part of the meeting is discussing possible process improvements. To identify them and if promising improvements are identified try to plan how to implement those improvements and use them in the next iterations. And something else that might happen at the end of a sprint is that if the product increment is good enough as it reach the state in which it can be actually shipped that will result in a release that is not just internal. To show the product owner the progress that can also be deployed and actually used in production. So one final consideration is that as you can see, XP and scrum are fairly similar, and that's because they're both agile development processes. So the main thing to keep in mind is that they both implement and enforce those ideas, values, practices, and characteristics that we saw when we discussed agile development process in general. In the previous lesson, we discussed the fundamental concepts behind software verification in general, and software testing in particular. In this lesson, we will discuss one of the two main testing approaches. Black box testing, also called functional testing. We will cover the main characteristic of black box testing, its pros and cons, and discuss some commonly used black box testing techniques. We will conclude the lesson with a practical exercise in which we will apply a specific black box testing technique to a real program. We will derive test cases for the program and assess how the use of a systematic approach, in contrast to a brute force approach, can help. As we said at the end of the previous lesson, black-box testing is the testing of the software when we look at it as a black box, as a closed box, without looking at it inside, without looking at the code. And there are several advantages in using black-box testing. So let me recap those advantages, some of which we already mentioned, and let me also expand on that a little bit. The first advantage of when I mentioned is that black box focuses on the domain, on the input domain of the software. And as such, we can use it to make sure that we are actually covering this domain, that we are actually covering the important behaviors of the software. A second advantage is that black box testing does not need the code. What that means is that you can perform early test design. So you can start designing and writing your test cases, even before writing your code, so that when the code is ready, we can test it right away. And that helps prevent a problem that is very typical in real life software development, which is getting an idea of the project and having no time to create the tests. In this way, we already have the tests, so we just have to run them. Another advantage is that black-box testing can catch logic defects, because it focuses on the description of what the software should do, and therefore on its logic. If we derive test cases from such description, then we can catch these kind of problems. And finally, black-box testing is applicable at all granularity levels, which means that we can use black-box testing in unit testing, integration testing, system testing, and so on. We can use it at all levels. So what is the starting point of black box testing? Black box testing start from a description of the software or as we call it, a functional specification. And the final result of black box testing is a set of test cases, a set of actual inputs and corresponding outputs that we can use to exercise our code and to try to find defects in our code. So the question is, how do we get from functional specification to test cases? Doing these derivations, so going from this description to a concrete set of tests, is a very complex analytical process. And normally brute force generation is not a good idea because it's inefficient and ineffective. What we want to do instead is to have a systematic approach to derive test cases from a functional specification. What a systematic approach does is to simplify the overall problem by dividing the process into elementary steps. In particular, in this case, we will perform three main steps. The first step is to identify independently testable features. Individual features in the soft hood that we can test. And we're going to expand on each one of these steps in the next part of the lesson. The following step is once we have these independently testable features to identify what are the relevant inputs. So what are the inputs or the behavior that is worth testing for these features. Next once we have these inputs, we're going to derive test specifications. And test case specifications are description of the test cases that we can then use to generate actual test cases. And proceeding in this way, by this steps, has many advantages. It allows for the coupling different activities. It allows for dividing brain intensive steps from steps that can be automated, which is a great advantage. And also we will see, it allows you for monitoring the testing process. So to figure out whether your testing process is going as expected, for example, if you're generating too many test cases. Or you're generating the number of test cases that your amount of resources available allows you to run. So let's start by looking at the first step of this process in which our goal is to go from a Functional Specification to a set of features that we can test in the software. So what we want to do is to identify all of the feature of the software. And why do we want to do this? Well you know, in the spirit of breaking down the complexity of the problem, it does not make sense to just try to devise test cases for all the features of the software at once. For any non-trivial software, that's a humongous problem, and something that we cannot really handle effectively. A much better way is to identify independently testable features and consider one of them at a time when generating tests. So, now I want to do a little quiz about identifying testable features. Let's consider this simple problem called printSum. We won't see the implementation because we are doing black-box testing. And all we need to know is that printSum takes two integers, a and b, and prints the sum of these two numbers. So what I want to ask, is how many independently testable features do we have here? Do we have one, two, three features? Or more than three features? Sum is a very simple program, that only does one thing, summing two number, adding two numbers. So the answer in this case, it's one. There's only one feature that we can test in PrintSum. So let's look at the slightly more interesting example. Let's look at this spreadsheet. I'm pretty sure most of you are familiar with what a spreadsheet is and have used them before. So now I'm going to ask the same question, which is I'd like you to identify three possible independently testable features for a spreadsheet. In this case there's not really a right answer because there's many, many features that you could identify in a piece of software as complex as a, a spreadsheet. So I'm just going to give you three examples. So one could be the cell merging operation. So the operation in which we merge two cells in the spreadsheet. Another example could be chart creation, so I might want to test the feature that allows you to create charts in your spreadsheets. Yet another example could be the test of statistical functions, so the function that allows you to do various statistical calculations on the numbers in your cells. And as I said there's many, many more example that we could use. But the key thing I want to convey here is the fact that there is no way you can look at a spreadsheet with all the functionality that it provides and just go and test it. The first step, what you need to do first, is to identify which ones are the pieces of functionality that I can test individually. So that's why this is the first step in black-box testing. Once we have identified Independently Testable Features, the next step is to identify the Relevant Inputs for each one of these features. And there are many ways to do that. So, what we're going to do, instead of looking at them all, is that we're just going to focus on two different ways of doing it. And they are fairly general ways. So, they are applicable to a number of situations. And in addition, what I will do, I will point you to other sources in which you can look at different ways of doing this in the class notes. The problem of identifying relevant inputs for some Software or some feature of it is called Test Data Selection and can be expressed as followed. Let's consider our software as usual we have our Input Domain, which is the set of inputs for all the software. And again as usual, we have our Output Domain, which is the set of corresponding outlets for these inputs. So the question here is, how can we select a meaningful set of inputs in my domain? And of course corresponding outputs because we know that test cases are an input, plus an expected output. So how can we select interesting inputs for our software? So a set of inputs that, after we run them on the software, if the software behaves correctly, we'll have enough confidence that the software is correctly implemented. So one possible idea is, hey, why don't we just test them all? We just do exhaustive testing. We do all the inputs, nowadays we have powerful machines, we have a lot of computational power in the cloud. Why not just doing it? So to answer that question, what I'm going to do? I'm going to use another quiz. So I'm going to ask you something. Which is if we consider again our function print sum, the one that takes two integers and prints the sum. How long would it take to exhaustively test this function? And this is a very simple one. There's just two inputs, right? So we can just enumerate them all. And put them throw them at the computer form, and wait for the results. How long would that take? Okay, so now we're going to answer the question. So if we want to consider all these inputs, and run them all on the software, let's see how it will work. Let's assume that these are, 32 bit integers. So at this point what we will have is, a number of combination, which is 2 to the 32, times 2 to the 32. They're two integers. This is equal to 2 to the 64, which in turn, is more or less equal, to 10 to the 19. So 10 to the 19 is the number of tests that we need to run to cover the whole domain. Now let's assume that we can run one test per nanosecond. So what that means is that we can run 10 to the 9 tests per second, and that's a lot. If we do the math, that results in 10 to the 10 seconds over all, because we have 10 to the 19 tests, we could run 10 to the 9 tests per second so, we do the math, and we can run all these tests in 10 to the 10 seconds. And what that corresponds to, it's about 600 years, so a lot of time. So even for such a simple problem, a problem that takes two integers and adds them, it will take more than 500 years to test it exhaustively. So the bottom line here is that we just can't do exhaustive testing. So then maybe what we can do is just to pick our test inputs randomly so to do what is called random testing. And what that means is that we pick the inputs to test just as we pick a number by rolling a set of dice randomly. And this will have several advantages. First, we will pick inputs uniformly. So if we use a uniform distribution as the basis for our random testing, we will make no preferences. In other words, all inputs will be considered equal, of equal value. And what that means in turn, is that random testing eliminates designer bias. So what does designer bias mean? Designer bias is the problem of making the same assumption, when we read the specification and we interpret it and when we develop test cases. Which means that the developer might develop code, assuming a given behavior of the user. And we may write tests, making the same assumptions. And the problem, of course, is even worse if it's the same person that develops the code and writes the test cases. With random testing, the problem is gone, because we just pick randomly what our inputs will be. So why not do in random? The problem is that when testing, we are looking for a needle in a haystack. Actually, multiple needles in multiple haystacks, if we want to be precise. So, random approaches are not necessarily the best way to go about it, because we might just be looking in all the wrong places. So let me show you this, using a different representation for the haystack. What I'm showing here is a grid, and imagine this grid just expanding indefinitely outside the screen, and this grid represents the domain for the program, so each box in the grid, each square in the grid, it's a possible input. So what happens with bugs is that bugs are very scarce in this grid. Maybe there is a bug here, so that means that there is a bug, than an input, in this point we'll reveal. And maybe there is another bug that will be triggered by an input over here. So imagine this spread out over this infinite grid. Its very unlikely that just by picking randomly that we will be able to get to these two points. Fortunately not all is lost, there is a silver lining. So we need to look a little more in depth into this grid. So let me use a slightly expanded version of this grid. Although we're indeed looking at a needle in a haystack. And failing inputs are generally sparse, very sparse, in the input domain. However, they tend to be dense in some parts of the domain. Like here or here. So how can we leverage this? The fact that the failures are dense in some subdomains? As it turns out, the domain is naturally split into partitions. Where partitions are areas of the domain that are treated homogeneously by the software. And this is what happens, that normally, failures tend to be dense in this partitions. So the way to leverage this characteristic of failures, is that we don't know want to pick inputs randomly, in the input domain. Just here and there. Rather we want to do two things. First we want to identify partitions of our domain. And second we want to select inputs from each partition. And by doing so, we can dramatically increase our chances to reveal faults in the code. So the name that is normally used for this process, is partition testing. So let's look at how this will work with an example. I'm going to use this simple program that takes two inputs. The first input is a string, str, and the second one is an integer, size. And the problem is called split. And as the name says what it does is to take this string, str, and split it into sub string, into chunks of size characters each. So how do we identify some possible partitions for this program? If we consider the input size, we can identify three neutral partitions which are size less than 0. For example, we want to test how the program behaves. But if we pass an incorrect size, size equal to 0, which is also a partition. In this case, a partition with a single element. And the third case is size greater than 0, which I will consider to be kind of the standard case. And actually let me do a, you know, slight aggression so when I was talking about designer bias. So this is a case in which designer bias might not make you think of using size less than 0 because you read the spec. And you sort of assume that the size will be positive. Whereas the right thing to do when we test is to consider the complete domain rather than just parts of it. So now let's look at string, str, and let's see what kind of sub domains we could identify for this parameter. And notice another important aspect here is that we treat each different part of the input independently, which also helps breaking down the problem. One interesting sub domain is the domain that includes all the strings whose length is less than size. So all the strings that will not be displayed. Another subdomain is all the strings with length which is between the value of size and twice the value of size. A third subdomain is the one including all the strings whose length is greater than twice the value of size. And we can continue and identify more and more subdomain. The key thing here is that we have to do that based on the domain. So we need to adapt what we just did here based on, on the specific domain involved and on the type of data in this domain. So at this point we said that there were two steps. One was to identify the subdomains and the second one was to pick values in this subdomain. The values that we'll actually use for the testing. In this case, we do not want to just pick any value. Rather we want to pick values that are particularly interesting, particularly representative. So what does that mean? Well, we're going to do that based on an intuitive idea. So let's go back again to our domain, with all the sub-domains identified. And the basic idea, or the intuitive idea I was talking about, is that errors tend to occur at the boundary of a domain, or a sub-domain. Like in this case. And why? Because these are the cases that are less understood by the developers. Like for example, the last iteration of a loop, or a special value like zero for integers. So if this is true, what we want to do is to select inputs at these boundaries. And this is complementary to partition testing, in the sense that partition testing will identify the partitions in which we want to select inputs, and boundary testing. So the selection of boundary values will help select inputs in these partitions. So now let's go back to our split example. Let me rearrange things a little bit to make more room. So now I'm going to put the domains for size and for strength one next to the other. So let's look at what some possible inputs will be for the sub domains that we identified when we use the idea of selecting input of the boundary. If we look at the first subdomain, size less than zero, one reasonable input is, size equals to minus 1, because minus 1 is the boundary value for the domain of the integers less than zero. If we look at the third subdomain, possibly interesting case is the one of size of equal to 1, for the same reasoning that we used for the previous subdomain, for size less than zero. And, let's try to select another one for this subdomain, for the integers greater than zero. If there is a concept of maximal integer, we can select that one as our boundary value. And of course we could select much more, but this is just to give you an idea. Other possible inputs. One interesting example for the first one, string with length less than size will be a string with length size minus one. Again this is the boundary value for this domain. And we could continue in this way like for example selecting a string who's length is exactly size as a boundary value for this other domain. Instant one, and we look back actually to this example and look at it in a more extensive way when we actually talk about a specific method for doing this kind of process. Now, let's go back to our systematic functional testing approach and all the steps in this process. So far we've seen the first step and the second step. Now we're going to look at this step in which, once we have identified the values of interest, we derive test case specifications for these values, or using these values. And the test case specification defines how the values should be put together when actually testing the system. And test case specification describe how these values should be put together when testing the system. So let me go back one more time to our split program, so that we can use the information that we already computed. At this point what we have is some possible inputs for "string," our first parameter, and for "size," our second parameter. And we want to put them together, to generate the description of what the test case should be. So let me once more rearrange this a little bit. I first remove the description of the subdomains, because we won't use them in this step. And I moved out the set of all our possible inputs, that we're going to combine to create the test case specification. And one possible way of doing that is simply to combine the values for the first parameter, and the values for the second parameter. So the Cartesian product. So if we do that, what we will obtain is, for example, if we consider the first possible input, size is equal to minus 1, we can combine it with these two possible inputs for string, and we will get size is equal to minus 1 string with length minus 2, or size is equal to minus 1 string with length minus 1. And we'll go back in a second to see what this means. Now if we consider the second possible value for size, size is equal to one, we also have two cases so the first one in this case that will be considered a string with length zero. So the antistring. And we can continue combining this value, but one thing I want to point out is that if we just go in this straight forward and brute force sort of way, we will obtain many combinations that don't make any sense, like for example, this combination which doesn't make any sense because we can not create the string with length minus 2. Similar for this combination, because then by the same token, we cannot raise things with length minus 1. And so there's a lot of cases that we will have to eliminate afterwards. So what we're going to see in a few minutes is a possible way in which we can avoid producing these meaningless cases. And at the same time, keep under control, the number of test cases that we generate. So lets go back for the last time to our steps for systematic functional testing. What we just did was to derive test case specification from a set of relevant inputs. The following step is to use these test case specifications to generate actual test cases. And this is normally a fairly mechanical step in the sense that we just have to instantiate what is in the test case specification as actual test cases. And it's really dependent on the specific type of partitions and values identified on the specific context. So instead of looking at that here in the, in the abstract, I'm going to show you with an example later on, in the lesson. What we will discuss next is a specific black-box testing approach. So a specific instance of the general approach that we just saw. And this approach is the category-partition method, and was defined by Ostrand & Balcer in 1988 in an article to the peer [UNKNOWN] communication of the ACM. So this is a method for going from a specification, a description of the system, to a set of test cases like any other black-box testing approach by following six steps. So let's look at what these steps are. The first step is to identify independently testable features and this is a step that we are familiar with because its exactly the same step that we performed in the generic black box testing approach that we just discussed. The second step is to identify categories. Then the next step is to partition categories into choices. Identify constraints among choices. Produce and evaluate test case specifications. And finally, the sixth step is to generate test cases from test case specifications. So two of the key elements in these six steps are the two that give the name to the technique so the identification of the categories and the partition of these categories into choices. What we're going to do next is to go and look at each one of the steps independently, except for the first one. Because we're already familiar with that step, and this method doesn't really add much to it. In the second step of the category partition technique, the goal is to Identify Categories. Where categories are characteristics of each input element. So let me illustrate what that means using an example. And to do that I'm going to use again the example of the split program, as we are already familiar with it and we kind of already played with it. When we were talking about the generic black box approach. So let me bring back the program, and let me remind you that what the program does is to take two inputs, a string and the size, and it breaks down the string into chunks, whose length is size. If we look at the split program there are two input elements, str and size so we going to identify categories for these two. So starting from str, what are the interesting characteristics of the string? In, in this step you're going to use your domain knowledge, your understanding of what a string is, and for example we might identify the length of the string and the content of the string as the two main characteristics that we want to focus on. If we now move our focus to size, the only characteristic I can really think of for an integer is its value. So that's what I'm going to mark here. So at the end of the step what we have is that we have two categories. So two interesting characteristics for the string input str, which are the length and the content. And one category for the integer input size which is its value. And notice that there's not only one solution. So there's not only one possibility. So that the specific characteristics that you will identify are somehow subjective. But the important point is that you identify characteristics that are meaningful and they sort of cover the main aspects of the inputs, which is the case for the categories that we've identified in this example. Now we move to the next step, which involves partitioning the categories that we just identified into choices. And these choices are the interesting cases for each category. So the interesting subdomains for each one of these categories. So once more, lets look at that using our example, the split program. So lets start by considering length. What are the interesting cases when we think about the length of a string? Some of those we already saw, one interesting case is the case of the length of size zero, so a string with no characters. Another interesting case is the one in which the length of the string is size minus one, so the string is just one character short of the size at which it will be cut by the split program. And we can continue along these lines, so we will select size, size plus one, size twice the value of size minus one, and so on and so forth. But even without listing all of those, I'm sure you get the idea of what it means to identify this interesting cases. Let's see the movements that are considering the content. So without the interesting cases when we think about the content of the string. So possible interesting case is the string that contains only spaces. Why? Well maybe because a split is written spaces in a special way. Similarly a string that contains special characters, like non printable characters, like tabulation characters, new line might also be an interesting case, something that we want to test. Also in this case we could continue and go on and on. So basically here you just want to put all the interesting cases that you can think of when you consider the content of a string. Now let's move to the value as the next category. So the value of the input size. And here we might want to consider a size zero, special case, a normal situation, like size greater than zero, another special case, size less than zero or maxint. And these are, if you remember, I accepted the cases that we consider when we look at this example, before. And also here we can continue and go on and on. So, at the end of the step, what we have is a set of interesting cases for each one of the categories, and now we can start to think about how we want to combine them. Something that we saw when we were looking at the split program before is that if we just combine the interesting values that we identify, we might end up with a lot of cases. And I mentioned that we, we're going to look at some way of addressing that problem. And this is exactly what happens in the next step of the category partition method, in which we identify constraints among choices. And why do we identify these constraints? We do that to eliminate meaningless combinations of inputs. If you remember, for example, we had the case in which we were trying to create a string with a size less than 0, which doesn't make any sense. And very importantly, we also do that to reduce the number of test cases. Because every time we constrain one of the possible choices, we eliminate possible test cases, so we can use it to keep under control the number of tests that we generate. There are three types of properties. The pair property...if, error properties, and properties of type single. So we're going to look at what these properties mean, using, once more, our example of the split program. In particular, we're going to use some of the choices that we identified earlier. So let's look, for example, at choice 0, for category length of the string. All we can say is that, if the length is 0, this define a special property of the string. And that was specified in this way by saying that this identifies property zerovalue. So every time that we use this choice, zerovalue is defined. At this point, we can use this to exclude some meaningless combinations. For instance, consider special characters. If we have a string of length 0, which means a string with no characters. Obviously, there cannot be special characters. So, considering this combination will just be a waste of time. So what we do is that we specify next to this choice, that we will only consider this if length is not 0. And we do this by saying that we consider this only if not zerovalue. So, if zerovalue is not defined. So this pair is an example of a property...if case. Define a property and use that property. Now let's look at a case in which we might want to use an error property. For instance, when we look at the category value for the input size, the choice value less than 0 is an erroneous choice. So it's a choice that we selected to test a possibly erroneous situation, so we can mark this as an error property. And what that means is that when generating a combination of choices, we will consider this only once because we assume that we just want to test this error condition once. Finally, the single property is a property that we use when we want to limit the number of test cases. And it's similar as an effect to error. It just has a different meaning. So what we do when we use the single property is that we're saying that this choice, we want to use in only one combination. So don't combine it multiple times. And that, of course, given the combinatorial nature of the problem, cuts down dramatically the number of test cases. And we might use, for instance, the single property for maxint, which means that we will only have one test case in which the size is equal to maxint. We're actually going to see a demo on this topic so we'll have more chances of seeing how properties work in practice and how good they are at eliminating meaningless combinations and at reducing the number of test cases. Before getting to our demo, we still have two steps to consider. The first step corresponds to the identification of the test case specifications in our general systematic approach. And in fact, it's called produce and evaluate test case specifications. This is a step than can be completely automated given the results of the previous steps. And the final result of this step is the production of a set of test frames. Where a test frame is the specification of a test. Let me show you an example of this. What we are looking at here is a test frame for the program split. Test frames are normally identified by a sequence number. But in this case we are looking at the 30th six test frame. And what they do is simply to specify the characteristic of the inputs for that test. In this case, since we have two inputs, we have two entries, the first one for string str tells us that the length of the string has to be size minus 1, and that the string has to contain special characters. And for size, it tells us that the value of size has to be greater than zero. As the title says, this step is meant to produce but also evaluate the case specification. What does it mean to evaluate? One of the advantages of this approach is that we can easily use it to assess how many test frames and therefore how many test cases we will generate with the current least of categories, choices and constraints. And the beauty of this is that if the number is too large we can just add additional constraints and reduce it. And given then the step is automated we just add constraints push a button and we get our new set of test frames. And again we can have a wait it either go hat or add more constraints if we need to further reduce it and this is something else that we will see in our demo. So we get to the last step of the technique in which once we have generated test case specifications. We create test cases starting from this specifications. This step mainly consists in a simple instantiation of frames and it's final result is a set of concrete tests. For our example, test frame number 36 that we just saw, this will be the resulting test case, which has the same ID, so that we can track it and will specify to concrete values, not just the specification for the input elements. So string STR will have this value. And the integer size will have this value. And these two values satisfy what this test case specification was. Which was, having a string contain special characters. Here, we have two special characters, like the new line and the tab. And, we have a size which is greater than zero, in particular, okay? And this is a test case that we can actually run on our code. That we can run on the split program. So, to summarize, we perform six steps in which we went from a high level description of what the program does, to a set of concrete test cases. And this is one of those test cases. So what, what we're going to do next, we're going to do a mini-demo, in which we do this for real. We take the program, we identify categories, choices, constraints, and we actually generate test frames and then test cases. In this demo, we're going to do exactly what we did just now in the lesson. We're going to use the category partition method to go from a high-level description of a piece of software of a program to a set of test cases for that program. To do that, we're going to use a simple tool. So I'm going to show you here the tool that is called a tsl generator right here. This tool is available to you, so you can look in the class notes to see information on how to download it. And together with the tool, we are also going to provide a manual for the tool, and a set of files that I'm going to use in this demo. So you should be able to do exactly what I'm doing. So again, all of those are available from the class notes. So specifically, today we're going to write test cases for the grep program. So in case you're familiar with the grep utility, this is a simplified version of that utility. So basically the grep utility allows you to search a file for the occurrences of a given pattern. So you can invoke it, as it's shown here in the synopsis, by executing grep, the pattern that you're looking for, and the filename in which you want to look for the pattern. And let me read the description of the grep utility. The grep utility searches files for a pattern and brings all lines that contain that pattern on the standard output. A line that contains multiple occurrences of the pattern is printed only once. The pattern is any sequence of characters. To include a blank in the pattern, the entire pattern must be enclosed in single quotes. To include a quote sign in the pattern, the quote sign must be escaped, which means that we have to put a slash in front of the quotes sign. And in general, it is safest to enclose the entire pattern in single quotes. So this is our high level description for the program, for the softer system, that we need to test. So now let me show you what a possible set of categories and partitions could be for this program. So what I have here is a file, a textual file, which contains all the categories and partitions for the elements that are relevant for my program. In particular, when we look at the file, we can see that the file can be characterized by its size. And in this case, I've got two choices. The file can be empty or not empty. The second characteristic of the file that I'm considering is the number of occurrences of the pattern in the file. And I'm considering that the pattern might not occur in the file or it might occur once, or multiple times. I'm not going to go through the rest of the file because we already covered how to apply the category partition method in the lesson. So if you had doubts about that, about the method and how to apply, you might want to go back and watch again the lesson. What I want to show you here is how you can go from this information that you have here, that we have derived by applying the, the first steps of the method, to a set of test frames, and then, a set of test packs. So to do that we're going to use the tool that I just mentioned. So let me bring back my terminal. So first of all, let's see how we can run the tool. So you have a manual that will explain all the details on how to build the file that we're going to feed the tool. So what is the format and so on. Here I'm just going to see how I can run the tool. So first of all, let me point out that this was developed together by professors from the University of California Irvine and Oregon State University. And as you can see, we can run TSL generator and specify that we want to see the main page. So in this case if we run it this, this way, you'll have some basic information on how to run the tool. And from the main page you can see that you can specify the minus c flag and in this case the TSL generator will report the number of test frames generated without writing them to output. For example, you might want to use this as we will do to see how many tests that you will generate with a current set of category partitions and choices. The minus s option will bring the result of the TSL generator on the standard output. And finally, you can use minus o to specify an output file, where to put the output of the program. So let's at first run our TSL generator by specifying the minus c option and by bypassing our current set of category partitions and choices. Okay, so let me remind you that what the, the tool will do is what we will do manually. Otherwise, which is to combine all these choices so as to have one test case for each combination. So if we do that, you can see that the tool tells us that we will generate 7776 test frames in this case. And this seems to be a little too much for a program as small as the one that we are testing. And assume for instance that we don't have the resources to run this many test cases for, for the grep program. In addition, consider that in this case, we're computing all possible combinations of choices. And there's going to be some combination that do not make sense as we discussed in the lesson. So what we might want to do in this case is to go back to our spec and start adding constraints to eliminate this meaningless combination. So I'm going to show you the result of doing that. And I'm going to show you a few examples. For example here, when the file is empty, I'm going to define this property empty file. And how am I going to use this property? Well for example here, it doesn't make sense to consider the case in which we have one or many occurrences of the pattern in the file if the file is empty. Therefore I'm going to tell the tool that it should consider this specific choice only if the file is not empty, only if empty file is not defined. And that will skip, for example, all of the combinations in which the file is empty. And I'm trying to generate the test case that has one occurrence of the pattern in the file, which is simply not possible. For another example, in case I have an empty pattern, I define the property empty pattern. And then I avoid the choices that involve the pattern in case the pattern is empty. because, for example, I cannot have quotes in a pattern that is empty. For example, it doesn't make sense to have blanks. So, one or more blanks if the pattern is empty. So I'm going to specify again that this choice should be considered only if we don't have an empty pattern. And so on and so forth. So now after I edit these constraints, I can go back and compute again the number of test frames and therefore the test cases that will be generated with these constraints. So let me go again to my terminal. Okay, so now I'm going to run my TSL generator again, and I'm going to run it on the second version of this file. And you can see that I reduced the, the number of test frames from about 7800 to about 1700. So it's quite a, quite a big reduction by eliminating all these combinations that do not make sense. But let's assume again that we want to reduce this further so that we don't want to generate those many test frames and therefore test cases. So what can we do? We go back to our spec. And in this case, we start adding error constraints. So if you remember what we said in the lesson, error constraints are constraints that indicate a choice that has to do with an erroneous behaviour. For example, an erroneous input provided to the problem. So here for instance, we're indicating the presence of incorrectly enclosing quotes as an error choice. Same thing if there's no file corresponding to the name that we provide to the tool, we say that this corresponds to an error. So how is the tool going to use this information? It uses this information by producing only one combination that involves error choices, instead of combining them with other choices. So let's see what happens after we added this error constraints. So we go back to our console once more. And in this case, we want to run the TSL generator with the version of the, of my file that contains the area of constraints. And again, I reduce quite a bit the number of test frames. So now I have only 562 test frames that will be generated by using the file that I provided. So for the last time, let's assume that we really want to cut down the number of test frames or the number of test cases. So once more, we go back to our file, and at this point what we can add is the final type of constraints that we have, which are single constraints. And single constraints are basically indicated choices that we don't want to combine with other choices. So they have the same effect of the error constraints, but they have a different meaning, so they do not indicate choices that corresponds to an error. In other words, I can use a single constraints to identify choices that I want to test only once. So for example in this case, I might decide that I want to have only one test frame that tests my program with a file being empty and I can do the same for other choices. So basically I can continue adding this single constraint until I get down to the number of test frames and therefore the number of test cases that I want. So now let's go back once more to our console. And so now if we run using this file as input, you can see that we have 35 test frames generated. So this is a fairly low number of test cases, so we might decide that we want to go ahead and write these test frames to a file. So now let's open this file that we just generated. And as you can see here, I have exactly 35 test frames, as expected. Some of those correspond to the single and error cases. So in this case, the only choice that I have indicated is the one that corresponds to the single or error constraint. What is for the other ones? I actually have the whole test spec. So let's pick one just to give you an example. In this case, that's frame number 15 that will correspond to test case number 15. And here you can see that we have all the information. So this is a test specification. All the information that we need to generate the corresponding test. We know that we need a file that is not empty. That we need to have one occurrence of the pattern in the file. One occurrence of the pattern in one line. The position of the pattern in the file can be any position. The length of the pattern must be more than one character. The pattern should not be enclosed in quotes. There should be one white space, one quote within the pattern, and finally the file that would pass through the program should exist. So the file should be present. So I can easily transform all of this into an actual test case. And notice that even though we're not, we're not going to do it here. In cases like this, it might even be possible to automatically generate the test cases from the test specifications because, here for example, here it should be relatively straight forward to parse these test specifications and generate test cases accordingly. So, just to summarize, what we have done is to go from one high-level description of a program to a set of categories, partitions, and choices for that program. Then we have combined them in different ways, adding more and more constraints to reduce the number of combinations until we ended up with the right number of test cases, so the number of test cases that we were fine generating. We generated the corresponding test specifications. And at that point, we could just go ahead, generate the test case, and test our application. So, and you can see how this can result in a much more thorough testing of your application. Because instead of reading this description and just trying to come up with test cases for it, we can break down the process in steps that are easy to perform individually. They can be automated as much as possible. And they will end up with a set of test cases that will test all the interests and aspects of your application. What we just saw with the category-partition method, is a specific instance of this systematic functional testing approach. So specific instance of the steps that we represented here. And, as I mentioned earlier on, this is not the only way in which you can generate test cases, starting from a functional specification. In particular, this step, in which we identified relevant inputs and then we combine them to generate test case specifications, can also be done in different ways. And, we're going to look at one of these ways. Which is through the construction of a model. And, the reason why I want to talk about models. Is because, model based testing is also, fairly popular in industry. And fairly used in practice. In model based testing, the way in which we go from specifications, to test cases, is through the construction of a model. Where a model is an abstract representation of the software under test. Also in this case there are many possible models, that we can use. And what we're going to do, we're going to focus on a specific kind of model. And I'll just point you to additional sources of information, in case you're interested in seeing other examples. The model that we will consider, is a very well known one. Which is finite state machines. And you might have seen them before. At a high level, a state machine is a graph in which nodes represent states of the system. For example, in this case, state 1, state 2, and state 3. Edges represent transitions between states. For instance, in this case we have one edge from state 1, to state 2. That means that the system can go from state 1, to state 2. And finally, the labels on the edges represent events and actions. For example, what this label means is that the system goes from state three to state two when event five occurs. And when going from state three to state two, it generates action four. And does reacher model, sir reacher's kind of state machines, but we're just going to stick to this ones which are enough. For our purpose. So how do we build such a final state machine starting from a specification? The first thing we need to do is to identify the system's boundaries and the input and output to the system. Once we have done that, we can identify, within the boundaries of the system, the relevant states and transitions. So we split this single state We'll refine it into several states. And we also identify how the system can go from one state to another. Including which inputs cause which transition, and which result in outputs we can obtain. To better illustrate that, let's look at a concrete example. In this example, we're going to start from an informal specification, and the specification is the one shown here in file spec.txt. This is the specification for the maintenance function in a specific system. So what we're doing is that we're taking the description of the functionality of a system, and we're building a model, in this case a final state machine for it. And there is no need to look at all the details for this specification, but I want to point out that if you look at the way the specification is written, we can identify specific cases that we need to take into account. Like here if something happens, something else will follow. Again, if something happens something else will follow. So we have multiple choices here. Here will determine the next steps and so on. So all we have to do is to go through this process, identify these cases and then build a machine that represents these cases. For the spec that we just consider this is the state machine that will result. Again there is no need to go through all the details, but what I want to point out is that we have a set of states. So for instance, we have state zero, which is no maintenance, and if a request comes in, the system will move, and the system wait for pickup. Then if the pickup actually occurs, the system will move to the repair state, and so on and so forth. So this is just a more systematic representation of what was in the former specification. And I will argue that this is much easier to understand at least for somebody who has to develop tests for this system. In fact what we're going to see next is how we can go from that representation to a set of test cases. And the way which we do it is by covering the behaviors represented by defining state machine. And we can decide how we want to cover them. For example we might want to cover all the states. So we might want to identify paths in the state machine that go through all the states in the machine. Like the one I just draw or this one, this one and this one. So if we consider these four test cases, we can see that all the states in my system or at least all the states that I have identified are covered. I might want to go a little further, and decide that I don't only want to cover all of the states, but I want to cover, all of the transitions, because, it makes sense to visit a state, when coming from different states. And, if I want to do that, and I look at the test cases that I generated so far, I can see that there is one transition, the one here, that is not covered. And, the same can be said for the two transitions here. So what I can decide to do is to generate another test case, that covers those or extend an existing one. For instance, I could extend this test case by adding a visit to the state, before going back to these two. Alternatively, I could also generate new test cases, such as this one. To cover the missing transitions. And once I have these test cases, I can express them in a clearer way by simply specifying what are the states that they cover. I'm just going to give you a couple of examples. Say, if we look at the last one that I added, which will be test case number five, I just need to specify that it will go through state zero, which is this one, five, which is this one, six, and then back to zero. And I can do the same for the other test cases. So this will be my complete set of test cases. So the bottom line here is that it is much harder to build a set of test cases that will cover the behavior of an informal description. But by going through a model, so by building in this case, a finite state machine for that description, we can, in a much easier way, see what the behaviors of interest of the system are, and try to cover them. And there is again in the spirit of breaking down a complex problem into smaller steps that we can better manage, which in the end, results in a more efficient and effective testing. There are some important considerations I want to make on final state machines. And more in general, on model based testing. The first one is about applicability. Testing based on final state machines is a very general approach, that we can apply in a number of contexts. And in particular, if you are working with UML, you have state machines for free. Because state charts are nothing else but a special kind of state machine. So you can apply the technique that we just saw directly on state charts, and try to cover their states and their transitions. Another important point is that abstraction is key. You have to find the right level of abstraction. The bigger the system, the more you have to abstract if you want to represent it with a model, and in particular, with the final state machine. So it's like having a slider, and you have to decide where you want to move on that slider. The more you represent, the more complex your system is going to be and the more thorough your testing is going to be but also more expensive. The less you represent the less expensive testing is going to be, but also testing might not be as thorough as it would be otherwise. So you have to find the right balance between abstracting the weight too much and abstracting the weight too little. And finally there are many other approaches. So we just scratched the surface, and we just saw one possible approach. But for instance, other models that you can use are decision tables, flow graphs and even historical models. Models that can guide your testing based on problems that occurred in your system in the past. And also, in this case, I'm going to put pointers to additional materials in the class notes. Now we are at the end of this lesson, and I just want to wrap it up by summarizing what we've seen. We talked about black-box testing, the testing of software based on a functional specification, a description of the software rather than its code. We saw a systematic way of doing that, that allows for breaking down the problem of testing software, so the problem of going from this functional specification to a set of test cases into smaller steps, more manageable steps. And we saw two main ways of doing this. One by identifying relevant inputs for the main features in the system and then deriving test case specifications and test cases from this set of inputs. And the second way by building a model for the main features of the system and then using this model to decide how to test the system. In the next lesson, we are going to discuss, how to do testing by looking inside the box? So, how to do testing in a white-box fashion. In the last lesson, we talked about design, and we saw how difficult it can be to come up with a good and effective design for a given software system. To help address these difficulties, we will discuss design patterns, which can support design activities by providing general, reusable solutions to commonly occurring design problems. Similar to architectural styles, design patterns can help developers build better designed systems by reusing design solutions that worked well in the past and by building on those solutions. Let's start our decision of design patterns by looking at the history of patterns. As you know, I like to give this sort of historical perspective on how and when concepts were defined. In this case, we have to go back to 1977, when Christopher Alexander, an American professor of architecture at UC Berkeley, introduces the idea of patterns, successful solutions to problems, in his book called a Pattern Language. The book contains about 250 patterns. And the idea is that occupants of a building should be able to design it. And the patterns in the book provide a way to do that. And this idea of design patterns, so, a formal way of documenting successful solutions to problems, inspired several other disciplines. In particular, in 1987, Ward Cunningham and Kent Beck leveraged this idea of Alexander's patterns in the context of an object oriented language. And in this specific the language was Smalltalk. Some of you might know the language. So what Cunningham and Beck did, was to create a 5 pattern language for guiding novice Smalltalk programmers. So they did an experiment and had several developers using their patterns, and the experiment was extremely successful. The users were able to create elegant designs using the provided patterns. And in case you are interested in reading about it, Cunningham and Beck reported the results in the article, Using Pattern Languages for Object Oriented Programs, which was published at the International Conference on Object Oriented Programming, Systems, Languages, and Applications, also called OOPSLA, in 1987. At the same time, Eric Gamma was working on his dissertation, whose topic was the importance of patterns and how to capture them. Between 1987 and 1992, there were several workshops related to design patterns. And in 1992, Jim Coplien compiled a catalog of C++ items, which are some sort of patterns, and he listed this catalog of patterns in his book, which was titled Advanced C++ Programming Styles and Idioms. Finally, in 1993 and 1994, there were several additional workshops focused on patterns. And this workshop brought together many patterns folks, including these 4 guys, Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson, and John Vlissides. These guys are also known as the gang of 4. And the result of this collaboration was the famous book Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object Oriented Software. So this is basically The Book on design patterns. If you want to buy a book on design pattern, this is the one you should get. This book contains a patterns catalog which is a number of design patterns classified by purpose. And there are five main classes of patterns. There are fundamental patterns which are the basic patterns. There are creational patterns which are the patterns that support object creation. Then there are structural patterns and these are patterns that help compose objects, put objects together. The next class of patterns are behavioral patterns and these are patterns that are mostly focused on realizing interactions among different objects. Finally, there are concurrency patterns and these are patterns that support, as the name says, concurrency, so they're more related to concurrency aspects. And for each of these classes there are a number of specific patterns, and here I'm just listing some of them. Clearly we cannot cover in one lesson all of these patterns, but what I want to do is to cover at least a few of those to give an idea of what patterns are and how they can be used. In particular, we will see in detail the Factory Method Pattern and the Strategy Pattern. And we will also discuss a few more patterns at a higher level. So let's start by seeing how patterns are defined. So what is the format of the pattern definitions. If we look at the Gang of Four's book we can see that these definitions contain a lot of information. In fact, what I'm listing here is just a subset of this information. In this lesson, what I want to do is to focus on four essential elements of a design pattern. It's name, the intent which is the goal of the pattern. The pattern's applicability which is the list of situations or context in which the pattern is applicable. I also want to cover the structure and participants. Which is the static model that describes the elements, so normally the classes or the object involved in the pattern. In addition to that the structure also describes the relationships, responsibilities and collaborations among these classes or objects. Finally what I want to cover is sample code. So examples that illustrate the use of patterns. Let's now look at the first design pattern that we will discuss, the factory method pattern. And I'm going to start by discussing the intent of the pattern and its applicability. As far as the intent is concerned, the factory method pattern allows for creating objects without specifying their class, by invoking what we call a factory method. And what that is, is a method whose main goal is to create class instances. So when is this pattern useful? So when is it applicable? For example, it is applicable in cases in which a class cannot anticipate the type of object it must create. That is, the type of an object is not known at compile time, is not known until the code runs. A typical example of this, are frameworks. So if you ever used a framework, you will know that, normally, frameworks only know about interfaces and abstract classes. So the exact type of the objects of these classes is only known at runtime. The second case in which the factory method pattern is applicable, is when a class wants its subclasses to specify the type of objects it creates. And we'll see an example of this in a minute. Finally, factory method patterns are applicable when a class needs control over the creation of its objects. And in this case, one possible example is when there is a limit on the number of objects that can be created. Special example, it's a singleton. If you're familiar with a singleton, a singleton is a class for which only one instance can be created. The factory method pattern is perfect in these cases, because it allows to control how many objects get created. So in this case, it would allow the creation only of a single object. And from the second time that it is invoked, it will just return the object that was previously created. Now let's go ahead and see how this pattern actually works, and let's do that by discussing the structure and the participants for the pattern. The structure that is represented here, using the UML notation, includes three classes, the Creator, the ConcreteCreator, and the Product. The Creator provides the interface for the factory method. So this here, is the interface for the factory method that, when invoked, returns an object of type Product. The ConcreteCreator provides the actual method for creating the Product. So this method is a concrete implementation of this interface. Finally, the Product is the object created by the factory method. So summarizing, we have the interface for the factory method, the actual implementation of the summary method, and the object that is created by the factory method, when it is invoked. So let's look at an example of this pattern. The example I'm going to use consists of a class called ImageReaderFactory which provides the factory method which is this one; createImageReader. As you can see the method takes an InputStream as input and returns an object of type ImageReader, and it's static so that we can invoke it even if we don't have an instance of the ImageReaderFactory. So what does the method do? Well the method first invokes, getImageType, passing the InputStream as a parameter and this method figures out the type of the image that is stored in this Inputstream and it's an integer. Then, based on the value of this integer, the method does one of several things. If the image type is a GIF, it will invoke the constructor for GifReader passing the stream as a parameter. And what will happen is that the GIF reader will read a GIF from the stream, create a corresponding object and return it. So in this case, the ImageReader object return will be the object representing a GIF as appropriate. Similarly, if the image type is JPEG, then the method will invoke the constructor for JPEG Reader and in this case, this constructor will read from the stream a JPEG, create a corresponding object and return it. And so on for different types of images. So why is this a situation in which it is appropriate to use the factory method pattern? One, because it corresponds exactly to the cases that we saw before, of applicability. This is a case in which we don't know the type of the object that we need to create until we run the code, because it depends on the value of the InputStream. It depends on the content of the InputStream. So, until we read the InputStream, we cannot figure out whether we need to create a GIF, a JPEG or some other type of image. So in this case, we want to do, we want to simply delegate to this classes the creation of the object, once we know what type of object needs to be created. So perfect example of application of a factory method pattern. The second pattern I want to discuss is the strategy pattern, which provides a way to configure a class with one of many behaviors. What does that mean? Well, more precisely, this pattern allows for defining a family of algorithms, encapsulating them into separate classes, so each algorithm in one class, and making these classes interchangeable, but providing a common interface for all the encapsulated algorithms. So in essence, the intent of a strategy pattern is to allow for switching between different algorithms for accomplishing a given task. For example, imagine having different sorting algorithms with different space or time tradeoffs. You might want to be able to have them all available and use different ones in different situations. And this pattern is applicable not only when we have different variants of an algorithm, but also when we have many related classes that differ only in their behavior. So let's get more concrete and see how this is done. And I'm going to do it as before, by discussing the structure and the participants for this strategy pattern. In this case, we have 3 types of participants for this pattern, the context, the algorithm, and the concrete strategies. There can be as many as the number of behaviors that I need to implement. So, let's see what those are. The context is the interface to the outside world. It maintains a reference to the current algorithm and allows for updating this reference at run time. So, basically the outside world will invoke the functionality provided by the different algorithms, by using this interface. And depending on which algorithm is currently selected, that's the one that will be executed when the functionality is involved. The algorithm, also called the strategy, so that's where the pattern gets its name, Is the common interface for the different algorithims. So all the algorithms implement this interface. Finally, the concrete strategies are the actual implementations of the algorithms. So if I have 10 different variants of my algorithm, I will implement 10 different concrete strategies. They will all be implementations of this interface. Now let's see how this whole thing works in practice by using an example. We're going to consider a program that takes as input a text file and produce it as output, a filtered file. So basically it outputs a subset of the content of this text file based on some filter. And we're going to have four different types of filters. So the first one is not filtering which means that the whole content of the text file will be produced on the output. The second filter will output only words that starts with t. So you'll take the text file and simply ignore all of the words that do not start with t. So in the output we'll have only those words that starts with letter t. The third filter will produce in the output only words that are longer than five characters. So all the other words will be simply disregarded. And finally, the four filter will produce as output only words in the text file that are palindromes, and in case you don't know what a palindrome is, a palindrome is a word that is the same whether you read it from left to right or from right to left. For example, the word kayak, you can read it in this direction, or in this direction, and it's exactly the same word. So let's see how this program could be implemented using a strategy pattern. And let's do it for real as a demo. What we're looking at here is the editor page for Eclipse, open with the strategy pattern implementation for our example. So what I'm going to do is that, I'm going to look at a different part of implementation. And you will see that, you know, despite the fact that it's slightly longer, it's really fairly simple, it's kind of a straightforward implementation of what we just saw. As I just said, what we are doing is basically building the strategy patterns that allows for changing the strategies with which we're filtering an input file. And we have different strategies, we'll look at those in detail, and we said that the three participants for this pattern are the context, the algorithm, which is the general interface and then the concrete strategies, which are the concrete implementations of this algorithm. So let's start by looking at the context. Which is this class here. And as you can see it contains a reference at the current strategy. We call this the check strategy, which is basically our filter, and when the context is created by default it sets a strategy to the old strategy. The old strategy is the one that accepts all the input, so basically it doesn't filter out anything. And we said that the context is the interface to the outside world, right? So it has to provide the outside world with a way of selecting the strategy, the specific algorithm to be used, and it does that in this case by providing this change strategy method. This method takes a strategy as input, and simply replaces the current strategy with the one specified as a parameter. And at this point, the context also will perform the filtering. The filtering is pretty straightforward, so what it does is that it opens a file that is passed as a parameter so that this the file, the input file to be filtered. And then it reads the file line by line and then splits the lines into its composing words and then for each word in each line, what it will do, it will basically invoke the check method in the current strategy, which is basically the filtering method and if the check method returns true, which basically means that the word should be printed, it prints the word. Otherwise, it'll just skip it. So basically the filter will return false for all the words that have to be filtered out. Okay? This is the basic way in which context works. Let's see how this is used in our main method. The main method simply creates the context, reads the input file from the arguments, and then what he does is simply as a demonstration, it will perform the filtering using all the different filters. So starting from the default one, which is the one that basically doesn't do any filtering that reports all words, then it will switch to the algorithm, that only considers the words that start with t, and it will do that by invoking a change strategy and passing this strategy as the argument, and then performing the actual filtering through context. And it will do exactly the same for the strategy that only prints words that are longer than five and the one that only prints words that are palindromes. So now let's look at the actual algorithm. This is the interface, the algorithm interface. And you can see that the only thing that the interface provides is this method, which is the check method, that takes a string as input and will return a boolean. So, basically, it's the boolean that we were seeing before. The one that is true for the words that have to be printed and false for the ones that have to be filtered out. Now, we have all the different implementations of the algorithm, the simplest one is the all algorithm, the simple return is always true, so all the words will be printed. The second one starts with t, and again, without looking at the details of implementations that don't really matter, what it does is basically check that the first character is t, and returns true in that case and false otherwise. Similarly, for the LongerThan5 algorithm, also in this case, this will implement the check strategy interface, and the check will be performed by checking that the word is longer than five characters and returning true in that case and false otherwise. And finally the Palindrome check is a little more complicated, but basically it just checks whether the word is a Palindrome and returns true in that case. Okay, so as I said, it doesn't really matter too much what is the specific implementations of these matters. What matters is that we have a general interface for the algorithm and then any different concrete implementations of the algorithm that implement different strategies. So again, this allows you to change the behavior of your class without changing class. So we have this context class that does different things when the filter method in invoked, depending on what is the current strategy. So the behavior of the class can change dynamically, and it changes dynamically every time that we change the strategy. At this point, the way this whole thing works should be clear, so what we're going to do is that we're going to go to our console, and we're actually going to run the strategy pattern and see what happens. So here I have a file, it's called foo.txt. And if we look at the content of foo, you can see that it says that this is just a test to assess how well this program performs when used on files of text. And since it checks for palindromes, we will also insert one such word, level. Level is a palindrome, because you can read it from both sides. Okay, so let's see what happens when we run our code. So we're going to run java pattern.strategy.StrategyPattern which is our class, and we going to fetch foo.txt as an input, and let's go back to the beginning of the output to see what happened exactly. You can see here that for the default strategy, which was the old strategy, the whole file is printed, so every word is printed. This is just a test to assess and so on and so forth, as expected. For the filter that only prints words that start with t, only words that start with t are printed, again, as expected. Similarly, for the filter that only prints words that are longer than 5, and finally for the one that prints palindromes. And here you can see that we actually have two because the way in which this is implemented we'll also consider single letter words as palindromes because you can read them from both sides. But you definitely will also have level in the output. And in case you want to play with this code yourself, I have made this code and also the implementation for examples of other design partners available as a compressed archive. And the archive is accessible through a URL that is provided in the notes for the cost. Before concluding this lesson, let's look at a few more patterns. And although it will take too long to cover them in detail, I would like to at least mention and quickly discuss a few more of these more commonly-used patterns. In fact, some of the patterns that I will discuss, you might have used yourself. Maybe without knowing their name or the fact that they were design patterns. So let's start with a Visitor pattern, which is a way of separating an algorithm from an object structure on which it operates. And a practical result of this separation is the ability to add the new operation to exist in object structures, without modifying the structures. So, basically what this pattern does, is to allow for defining and easily modifying set of operations to perform on the objects of the collection. And the typical usage of this is, for example, when you're visiting a graph, or a set of objects, and you want to perform some operations on these objects. By using a visitor pattern, you can decouple the operation from the objects. Although not straightforward, this pattern is very, very useful. So, I really encourage you to look at it in more detail and get familiar with it. The second pattern I want to mention is the decorator pattern. The decorator pattern is basically a wrapper that adds functionality to a class. So the way in which it works, is that you will take a class, you will build a class that basically wraps this class. So it reproduces the functionality of the original class, but it also adds some functionality. And for all the functionality that was already in the original class, it will simply invoke this functionality and for the new one, you will implement it using the services of the class. And a nice property of the decorator pattern is that it's stackable. So you can add decorators on decorators on decorators, and further increase the functionality provided by your class. The iterator is another very commonly-used pattern. And, you probably use this one yourself because, it's also part of many standard libraries. What the iterator allows you to do, is basically to access elements of a collection without knowing the underlying representation. So the iterator will allow you to just go through a set of objects without worrying about how the objects are stored. So you basically just ask the iterator to give you the first object, the next object and so on. Another very commonly-used pattern is the observer pattern. And this pattern is very useful when you have an object of interest and a set of other objects that are interested in the changes that might occur in this first object. So what the observer pattern allows you to do is to register these objects, so that they let the system know that they're interested in changes in this first object. And then, every time that there is a change, these other objects will be automatically notified. So basically, the observer pattern allows for notifying dependents when an object of interest changes. If you want an example of this, just think about the file system and imagine having a folder. All the views of this folder will want to be notified every time that there's a change in the folder because they need to refresh. So instead of continuously checking the state of the folder, they will just register and basically say, hey, we're interested in knowing when something changes in this folder. And when something changes in the folder, they will be automatically notified. So it will be some sort of a push notification instead of a pull notification, if you are familiar with that terminology. Finally the proxy pattern is a pattern in which a surrogate controls access to an object. In other words, we have our object, and we have our proxy here. So all the requests to the object will go through the proxy that will then forward them. And all the responses from the object will also go through the proxy. They will then forward them to the original requester. So what the proxy allows you to do is to control how this object, that is behind the proxy, is actually accessed, for example, by filtering some calls. So in a sense, the proxy allows use for masking some of the functionality of the object that is behind the proxy. And there's many, many, many more useful patterns. That can help you when designing and implementing the system. So once more, I really encourage you to have a look at the book, to look at the resources online, and to really get more familiar with these patterns, and to try to use them in your everyday work. But with so many patterns, how do we choose a pattern? So this is a possible approach that you can follow. First of all, you want to make sure that you understand your design context. You understand what you're designing and what are the issues involved with this design. What are the problems that you need to solve. At this point, you can examine the patterns catalog, or,if you're already familiar with the catalog, just think about the possible patterns that you could use. Once you identify the patterns that you can use, you also want to study them and study the related patterns. So normally if you look at any pattern catalog, for each pattern there will also be a list of related patterns. So you can also look at those to see whether maybe some of those might be more applicable. And finally, once you identify the pattern that you think is appropriate, you will apply that pattern. When you do that, just be mindful that there are pitfalls in the use of patterns. One obvious one is the fact that you might select the wrong pattern and make your design worse instead of better. The second one is that if you get too excited about patterns, then you might be abusing patterns, so just using too many patterns, and end up with a design that is more complicated rather than less complicated. So always be careful, spend the time to figure out which one is the right pattern to apply, and make sure that you don't use patterns that you don't actually need. Now that we've discussed how to choose a pattern. Imagine that you have to write a class that can have only one instance. So to satisfy this requirement, I would like for you to pick one of the design patterns that we discussed in this lesson, and write the code here that satisfies that requirement. And when you write the code, please make sure that your class has only one method, without counting possible constructors, and that the class is called Singleton. And write your class right here. As we discussed in the class the right thing to do here was to use the factory pattern. So here is a possible code to solve the problem. Of course that there are different possible solutions. So what we did for this code was to first create a private, static, Singleton object called instance, which is the one that will keep track of the only instance that can be created on the class. Then we define the default constructor, the constructor that doesn't take any parameter as private. In this way other classes cannot create instances of Singleton without calling our factory method, and finally we create the factory method. And the factory method is very simple. The method will first check whether an instance of the class was already created. If it was created, it would just return that instance. Otherwise, it will create a new instance and assign it to that instance member variable and then return the newly created instance. So with this code you're guaranteed that other classes cannot bypass the factory method, because the default constructor is private. And the that the factory method will create one and only one instance of the class, which is exactly what our requirements were. To conclude this lesson, I want to discuss the concept of negative design patterns, that is, patterns that should be avoided. Interestingly, negative patterns were also mentioned in Christopher Alexander's book, so in the first formulation of patterns. So negative design pattern are basically guidelines on how not to do things. In consoles with patterns, the guidelines on how to do things. So basically, what the negative design patterns do is, they enable recurring design defects to be avoided. And as we will see in this class extensively, in mini-course four, negative patterns are also called anti-patterns or bad smells, or bad code smells. So in mini-course four we will see several examples of bad smells and what we can do to eliminate them. Hello, and welcome back. In the previous mini course we covered software design, discussed the UML and the unified software process, and worked on a complex project in which we developed a distributed software system. In this mini course, which is the last one for this class, we will cover my very favorite topic, software testing or more generally, software verification and validation. So why do I love software testing? Well, I love it because it is extremely important. It is very challenging and it is fun but only if you do it in the right way. In the upcoming lessons we will discuss why software verification is important, why software testing, which is a specific type of verification, is important, and what are the main techniques for performing software testing. We will also discuss test-driven development and agile methods, in which we'll lose some of the rigidity of the earlier processes and turn things around by writing tests before we write the code and then writing code that makes the test pass. Finally, we will perform a project, in which you get to apply most of the principles and practices of agile development in a realistic scenario. So let's jump right in. So let me start with some examples that motivate the need for very fine software. The first example I want to use is the famous Arian five. And if you remember that's a rocket that exploded not too long after departure. Because of a software error. And even without going to such dramatic examples. I'm sure you're all familiar with this kind of situation. Or this one, or again in this one. And here I'm not really picking on any specific organization, operating system or software. The point I want to make is that software is buggy. In fact, a federal report from a few years ago assessed that software bugs are costing the US economy, $60 billion every year. In addition, studies have shown that software contains on average one to five bugs every 1000 lines of code. Building 100% correct mass-market software is just impossible. And if this is the case, what can we do? What we need to do is to verify software as much as possible. In this part of the course, we will discuss how we can do this. We will discuss different alternative ways of very fine software systems. With particular attention to the most common type of verification. Which is software testing. Before doing that however, let me go over some basic terms that are commonly used. And I have to say, often misused in the context of software verification. The first term I want to define, is failure. A failure is an observable incorrect behavior of the software. It is conceptually related to the behavior of the program, rather than its code. The second term I want to introduce is fault, which is also called bug. And the fault or bug, is an incorrect piece of code. In other words, a fault is related to the code. And is a necessary, but not sufficient condition for the occurrence of a failure. The final term I want to introduce is, error. Where an error is the cause of a fault. It is usually a human error, which can be conceptual. A typo or something along those lines. And know that this terminology, failure, fault and error, is the official [UNKNOWN] terminology. So you cannot go wrong if you use it. Now, let me illustrate the difference between failure, fault and error. Using a small example. What I'm showing here is a small function that, as you can see from its name, takes an integer parameter i. And is supposed to double the value of i, and return it. As we can clearly see, this is not what the function does. So now I have a few questions for you. And so we use, as usual, our developer Janet to introduce a quiz. And the first question I want to ask you is the following. A call to double passing three as a parameter returns the value nine. What is this? Is that a failure, a fault, or an error? The fact that the call to double three returns nine instead of six is clearly a failure because it is an observable incorrect behavior of the program. So let me remind you that the failure is conceptually related to the behavior of the program, to the way the program acts and not its code. So now, let me ask you a second question. We just saw that we can, reveal a failure in the program by calling double with parameter three. Where is the fault that causes such failure in the program? So I want you to write the number of the line of code that, that contains the fault. Before telling you what the right answer is, let me remind you that the fault is related to the code, and is a necessary, but not sufficient condition for the occurrence of a failure. So in this case, a single faulty line is responsible for the failure, which is line three. So the correct answer, is three. At line three, the program computes i times i, instead of i times 2, as it should do. So, I want to ask you one last question about this problem. What is the error that cause the fault at line three? Remember that an error is the cause of a fault and it's usually a human error. And I apologize, but this was a tricky question that we cannot really answer. We really have no way to know what the error was. It could have been a typo, an erroneous copy and paste operation, or even worse a conceptual error. In case a developer did not know what it means to double a number. Unfortunately though, the developer is the only one who could actually answer this question. So even though we cannot really answer this question, having it help us think about how the error is in fact related to human behavior. Now that we got out of the way this initial set of basic definitions. Let's go back to our main concept, which is software verification. We said that software is buggy, and because software is buggy, we need to verify the software as much as we can. But how can we verify software? There are several ways to verify a software system. Among those, we will discuss four mainstream approaches. The first one is testing, also called dynamic verification. The second approach is static verification. The third approach is inspections. And finally, we're going to consider a fourth approach which is formal proofs of correctness. So what I'm going to do next, I'm going to first provide an overview of these approaches and then discuss some of them in more depth and please note that although we will discuss all four approaches we will spend most of our time on software testing. As software testing is the most popular and most used approach in industry. So let's start with our overview and in particular with testing. Testing a software system means exercising the system to try to make it fail. More precisely, let's consider a program. Its input domain, which is the set of all the possible inputs for the program and, its output domain, which is a set of all the possible corresponding outputs. Given this context, we can define what a test case is. A test case is a pair that consists of a, an input from the input domain D, and then, expected output O from the output domain. And O is the element in the output domain that a correct software would produce when ran against I. We can also define the concept of test suite, which is a set of test cases, and we're going to use these two concepts of test case and test suite quite a bit in the rest of the lessons. Subject verification, tries to identify specific classes of problems in the program. Such as null pointer dereferences. And unlike testing, what it does is that it does not just consider individual inputs, it instead considers all possible inputs for the program. So it consider in a sense all possible executions of the program and all possible behaviors of the program, that's why we save the verification unlike testing it's complete. The 3rd technique we are going to consider is inspections, and inspections are also called reviews or walkthroughs. And unlike the previous techniques, inspections are a human intensive activity, more precisely, they are a manual and group activity in which several people from the organization that developed the software, look at the code or other artifacts developed during the software production and try to identify defects in these artifacts. And interestingly inspections have been shown to be quite effective in practice and that's the reason why they're used quite widely in the industry. Finally, the last technique I want to mention is Formal Proof (of correctness). Given a software specification, and actually a formal specification, so a document that formally defines and specifies the behavior, the expected behavior of the program. A form of proof of correctness proves that the program being verified, actually implements the program specification and it does that through a sophisticated mathematical analysis of the specifications and of the code. The four different techniques that we just discussed have a number of pros and cons. So next we are going to discuss the main pros and cons for these techniques, so as to be able to compare them. When testing is concerned the main positive about this technique is that it does not generate false alarms. In other words, it doesn't generate false positives. What that means, is that when testing generates a failure, that means that there is an actual problem in the code. The main limitation of testing, however, is that it is highly incomplete. Consider again the picture that we drew a little earlier. The one representing the input domain of the program being tested. Even in the best scenario, testing can consider only a tiny fraction of the problem domain, and therefor a tiny fraction of the program's behavior, and we'll say a lot more about that in the following lessons. Static verification, unlike testing, has the main advantage that it considers all program behaviors. If we look back at our diagram, whereas testing will select only a few of those inputs, static verification will consider them all. Unfortunately, however, this comes with a price. Due to limitation of this kind of analysis and due to infeasibility issues, static verifiation considers not only all the possible behaviours, but also some impossible behaviors. And what that means is that static gratificaition can generate false positives. And this is, in fact, the main issue with static verification techniques. As we will further discuss later in the class, static verification can generate results that are not true. For example, it might report a possible no point of the refernce that cannot actually occur in practice. The strongest point about inspections is that, when they're done in a rigorous way, they're systematic and they result in a thorough analysis of the code. They are nevertheless a manual process, a human process. So they're not formal and their effectiveness may depend on the specific people performing the inspection. So its results can be subjective. Finally, the main pro about formal proofs of correctness is that they provide strong guarantees. They can guarantee that the program is correct, which is not something that any of the other approaches can do, including study verification. But the main limitation of formal proofs is that they need a form of specification, a complete mathematical description of the expected behavior of the whole program, and unfortunately such a specification is rarely available, and it is very complex to build one. In addition, it is also very complex, and possibly expensive, to prove that the program corresponds to a specification. That is a process that requires strong mathematical skills and, therefore, a very specialized personnel. So let's have another simple quiz, and we're going to have our developer Brett introducing the quiz. And the starting point for this quiz is the fact that today, quality assurance, or verification, if you wish, is mostly testing. That is, testing is the most commonly used activity to perform software verification. So now, I'm going to show you a quote, 50% of my company employees are testers and the rest spends 50% of their time testing, so I want to ask you, who said that? I'm going to give you some possibilities. Was that Yogi Berra, Steve Jobs, Henry Ford, Bill Gates or Frank Gehry? Take your best guess. And the correct answer is Bill Gates. So this gives you an idea of how important testing is in Microsoft in particular, but in many other software companies in general. So let's talk more about testing, as we said a little earlier in the lesson, testing means executing the program on a sample of the input domain, that is of all the possible input data and I really want to stress that this sample is tiny sample of the input domain. There are two important aspects of testing that I'm want to mention here, there first one is that testing is a dynamic technique. And what that means is that the program must be executed in order to perform testing. The second important point is that testing is an optimistic approximation. And what does it mean to be optimistic? Well, it means that the program under test is exercised with a very small subset of all the possible inputs as we just said. And this is done under the assumption that the behavior with any other input is consistent with the behavior shown for the selected subset of input data, that is why it is an optimistic approach. Another concept that I want to mention explicitly, is the concept of successful test. And I'm going to do that, using another quote. This one from Goodenough and Gerhart in their paper Towards a Theory of Test Data Selection, and what the quote says is that a test is successful if the program fails. And this might sound counterintuitive, but the point here is that testing cannot prove the absence of errors, but only reveal their presence. If a set of tests does not produce any failure, we are either in the extremely unlikely case of a correct program, or in the very likely situation of a bad set of tests that are not able to reveal failures of the program. And that is why we say that the test is successful if you can show that there are problems in the program. And before I start talking about specific testing techniques, there's something else that I want to discuss, which is Testing Granularity Levels. So let's consider a software system, a system made out of components that interact with one another. So the first level that we consider in testing is called Unit Testing, which is the testing of the individual units or modules in isolation. The next step, is to see there are multiple modules and their interactions. And this is called Integration Testing. So, integration testing is the testing of the interactions among different modules. And it can be performed according to different strategies. Depending on the order in which the modules are integrated and on whether we integrate one module at a time or multiple modules together, all at once. And in this latter case, we call this kind of integration testing, the one that integrates all the modules at once, Big Bang integration testing. And after performing integration testing, the next step is to test the complete system as a whole. And this level of testing is normally called, System Testing. So system testing in the testing of the complete system and it includes both functional and non functional testing. We will discuss functional and non functional testing in details in the next two lessons. But I just want to give you an idea of what they are intuitively. Functional tests are the test that aim to verify the functionality provided by the system. For example if you consider the function double value that we saw earlier in the lesson, a functional test will try to assess that that function is producing the right value given a specific input. Conversely, no functional test are the one that target, as surprisingly, no functional properties of the system. For example, no functional test will include performance tests, load tests, robustness tests. In general, no functional tests will try to assess different qualities of the system, such as reliability, maintainability, usability, so basically, all the ilities that you can think about. In addition to these three basic testing levels, there are two more levels that I want to consider and that I want to discuss. And they both involve the whole system. And the first one is Acceptance Testing which is the validation of the software against the Customer requirements. So this is the testing that makes sure that the system does what the customer wants it to do. And the last type of testing that I want to mention is Regression Testing. And regression testing is the type of testing or retesting, that we perform every time that we change our system. And we need to make sure that the changes behave as intended and that the unchanged code is not negatively affected by the modification, by these changes. In fact, what can happen when you modify the code is that parts of the code that are related to the changes, are actually affected by the changes, and start misbehaving. And we call those regression errors. And regression errors, are very common. For example, you're probably familiar with the situation in which, one software update is released, and just a few days later, another software update is released. In many cases that happens because the first update was containing regression errors. So the changes in the code that broke some functionality, that resulted in failures on the user's machine and in bug reports and therefore that caused further maintenance, further bug fixes, and a release on a new version. Something else I'd like to mention about regression testing, is that regression testing is one of the main causes why software maintenance is so expensive. And that's also why researchers have invested a great deal of effort into refining regression testing techniques that can make regression testing more effective and more efficient. So let me leave you, with a little piece of advice which is try to automate as much as possible regression testing. For example use scripts, use tools, make sure to save your harness, make sure to save your input, and outputs for the test, because you want to be able to rerun your test, at a push of a button as much as possible every time you change your code, to avoid the presence of regression errors in the code you release. All the testing levels that we've seen so far is what we can call developer's testing. So that's testing that is performed either within the testing organization, or by somebody who's doing like third-party testers on behalf of the testing organization. But there are two other kinds of testing that are worth mentioning that are also related to testing phases and these are alpha and beta testing. Alpha testing is the testing performed by distributing a software system ready to be released to a set of users that are internal to the organization that developed the software. So you can consider these users as, if you pass me the term, guinea pigs that will use an early version of the code and will likely discover errors that escaped testing and will have made it to the field if not caught. Beta testing is the next step after alpha testing, in which the software is released to a selected subset of users, in this case, outside your organization. And also in this case, the users are likely to discover latent errors in the code before it is officially released to the broader user population, so before we have an actual product release. So you may wonder why do we need to do both alpha and beta testing. Why not just one of the two? The reason is that alpha testing is performed to iron out the very obvious issues that still escape testing, but we want to do that before involving people outside your organization. And the rationale is that alpha testers have a higher tolerance for problems than beta testers, who expect a mostly working system. We're almost at the end of this lesson. In the next two lessons we're going to talk about two main families of testing techniques, black-box testing techniques, and white-box testing techniques. So, what I want to do before getting into the discussion of the specific techniques in this families. I want to give you an overview of what black-box testing and white-box testing are. Black box testing is the kind of testing in which we consider the software as a closed box. That's why it's called black box. So we don't look inside the software, we don't want to look at the code. We just going to look at the description of the software. So this is the testing that is based on a description of the software, which is what we normally call the specification for the software. And what black box testing tries to do is to cover as much specified behavior as possible, and the main limitation black box testing and the reason why this is complimentary to white-box testing is that it cannot reveal errors due to implementation details. Conversely, white-box testing is the kind of testing that looks inside the box. So looks at the code and how the code is written and uses this information to perform the testing. So white-box testing is based on the code, its goal is to cover as much coded behavior in this case, as possible, and its limitation is that unlike black-box testing, it can't reveal errors due to missing paths. Where missing paths are a part of a software specification that are not implemented and the reason why you can not reveal them is because it is focused on the code and not on the specification. To give you a slightly better understanding of the differences between black-box testing and white-box testing, I am going to provide you a couple of simple examples that illustrate the, the strengths and limitations of these two techniques. So, in this case, let's start with black-box testing, so we're only working with this specification. So, let's say that our specification says that this is a program that inputs an integer value and prints it. And implementation, we don't know because we're working at the black box level. If we wanted to test this function according to its specification, what we will probably do is to select a positive integer, a negative integer, and the zero as test inputs and see how the program behaves for these inputs. So let me now show you a possible implementation for this specification. What I'm showing here is this function that we called print NumBytes, which takes the parameter and prints it. And one thing that we notice right away is that, although in the specification, numbers that are less than 1024 and numbers that are greater or equal to 1024 are exactly equivalent from the specification standpoint. They're however treated differently in the code, so the developer decided that the program was just going to print the value of the parameter if it's less than 1024. But it was actually divided by 1024 and printing it with a kilobyte mark after it if you are greater than 1024. And notice that here, there is a problem. The developer, just a number 124, instead of 1024. So there's probably a typo in this point in the code. So this is a case in which by simply doing black-box testing, so by simply looking at the specific issue, we might miss this problem. Because we have no reason to consider numbers that are less than 1024 or greater than 1024. However if we were to look at the code, so operating at white-box manner, we will right away see that we need to have a test case that checks the program when the parameter is greater than 1024. And we will find the problem right away. So now let me show you a dual example. In this case we focus on white box testing. So consider now this other function, called fun. And let's assume that we want to test this function without having a specification. So without knowing exactly what it needs to do. But just by looking at the code. So we will try to do the problem in this case is to try to just execute all the statements. In the function. And notice I will talk extensively of what does it means to do white box testing later on in the next, two classes. So if that's our goal, if our goal is to cover all the statements, any input will really do. So any test case will excecute all statements in the code. And we'll a complete, you know, white-box testing coverage for the program. Imagine that I now give you a specification for this function. And what the specification says is that this function inputs an integer parameter, param, and returns half of its value, if param is even, and its value unchanged otherwise. That means if param is odd. So looking at this specification, we can clearly see that the function fun works correctly only for even integers, and it doesn't work for odd integers. Because it computes. Half of the value of the parameter and returns it every time, no matter what param is. So this is a case in which white box testing could easily miss the problem, because as we said any input will exercise the code. It's just by chance that we could reveal one that revealed the problem in the code. Conversely if we were to work, in a black box manner. Typically looking at the specification, we will select at least one odd, and one even input number to exercise all of the specified behavior. And we will find the problem right away. So these two examples are just very small examples, and they're kind of, you know, stretched. But these kind of issues occur on a much bigger scale and in much more subtle ways in real world software. And so what this examples do is to show you, how black box and white box tests are really complimentary techniques. So in the next two lessions we will explore these two types of techniques in detail. We will see different kinds of white box and black box testing. And we'll talk about their strengths and the mutations Hi, and welcome to the first of several lessons on tools of the trade. I'm very excited about these lessons, because I believe that tools are a cornerstone of the software engineering discipline, and it is of paramount importance to know and use them. In this lesson, we will talk about integrated development environments, normally called IDEs. And these are software applications that support developers in many of their everyday tasks, such as writing, compiling, and debugging code. And to make the discussion more concrete we will focus on a specific IDE, Eclipse. We will first present Eclipse, and then get some hands-on experience through a demo. As I just told you, tools are fundamental in software engineering. And I will stress this concept over and over, throughout the class. And today we're going to talk about a tool that is especially important, which is integrated development environments, or IDEs. And you're probably familiar with IDEs. So IDEs are environments that give you support for your development activities. For example, for writing code, editing code, compiling code, and so on. And we will focus specifically on one particular IDE, which is called Eclipse. And what I'm showing here is the two splash screens for two versions of eclipse, Helios and Kepler. Eclipse is an open, extensible development environment that was initially created by IBM and is now managed by the Eclipse Foundation. And of course, there are many other great ideas such as for example, Microsoft Visual Studio or Netbeam. We will be using Eclipse because it is open and because it is multi-platform, which means that you can use Eclipse no matter what operating system we're using. So we can see that the most commonly used operating system, such as Mac OS, Windows, Linux, Eclipse runs on any of these environments. Therefore, no matter what you're using, you'll be able to install Eclipse, run Eclipse, and follow the class. So, now let's look in a little more detail to what is an IDE. An IDE is a software application that supports software developers in many of their everyday tasks. It has many useful features. Most IDEs provide views that can be used to navigate, project resources from different perspectives. For example, you might want to look at your code differently when you're writing code, and when you're debugging. They also normally provide an intelligent source code editor. For example, an editor that will allow you to browse the documentation when you're writing a code that uses a specific method, or that will give you autocompletion when you start writing the name of an object and you want to get the methods for that object. And all of these things can be very useful while you're developing and can save you a lot of time. Modern IDE's will also normally give you support for version control systems that then you can use for softer configuration management. And we're going to discuss in detail version control systems in the next tools of the trade lesson, and we're also going to see how it can be integrated within an IDE. IDEs also give you builders so they give you build automation tools, they give you runtime support. So that you can run your projects from within the IDE and, for example, observe some aspects of the execution. In addition to giving you support for the runtime, they give you support for testing. Many IDEs allow you to run tests from within the IDE and to check the results of the tests from within the IDE. Not only that. Normally, after you run your tests, if there are some test cases that fail, you can also use your IDEs to do debugging. Many IDEs include graphical debuggers. Debuggers will allow you to navigate through the code, set which points, stop and restart the execution. Inspect variables, and do all of the activities that help debugging. And, to help you be more efficient and more effective when you do debugging. And into addition to all these features that are listed here IDEs can normally provide you even more features through a mechanishm that is called plugins. In fact most IDEs are extensible through the use of plug-ins. And by the way, note that plug-ins might be called differently on different platforms. For example, if you're using a Microsoft Visual Studio, plug-ins are normally called add-ins, but the concept is more or less the same. So, what is a plug-in? Well, let's imagine our IDE to be this box. A plug-in is additional functionality that you can actually plug into this box so that this box starts offering more features to the user. For example, you can add to Eclipse the Checkstyle plug-in. Which, paraphrasing the Checkstyle website, helps you ensure that your Java code complies with a set of coding standards by inspecting the code and pointing out items that deviate from a defined set of coding rules. Again, this is a functionality the core of Eclipse doesn't have. You can add the Checkstyle plug-in, and this functionality will become available in the IDE. Another example of plug-in is the EGit plug-in which adds support for the Git version control system in Eclipse. And actually this is something that we'll cover in detail, we'll have a demo, and we will actually use it throughout the class, so I'm not going to say anything more about the EGit plug-in for now. But again, what the plug-in will do is to add the Git functionality to Eclipse. A functionality that is not in the core of Eclipse and that is available to the user after you add the plug-in. In the rest of this lesson we're going to look at eclipse and try to get more familiar with eclipse in a hands on manner through a demo. In the demo we will cover some of the basic aspects of eclipse like how to run eclipse, how to select their workspace, how to create a project, how to create the class within the project and so on. I'll also cover some more advanced aspects, like how to create builders, run your project within Eclipse, and how to use their Eclipse debugger. So let's get to the demo. So let's start Eclipse. Eclipse is going to ask me for the location of my workspace and in this case, I selected a suitable directory and you can also use that checkbox on the left to avoid Eclipse for asking you again about where to put the workspace. And the workspace is basically the place the directory. Where, Eclipse will place all of your projects. So, now when you start Eclipse, if it's the first time you might get this Welcome screen. It's not going to happen again on subsequent executions, but I just wanted to make sure that I covered all the bases. And so, whatcha want to do here is to basically go to the java perspective which you can do by clicking over there or you can also use the menus. So in this case we will have to go to Window, open Perspective, and if the Perspective is not here, you'll have to click on Other. And at this point, that you can click on Java Perspective, then you click okay. And the perspective is basically, the visual work space where you will be operating. So, after we selected perspective, we can actually close the welcome screen. And here, you see that you have this different areas and on the left You have the package explorer. This is the area where your packages will be, you've got a task list, and an outline on the right which we'll cover later. And then you have underneath, the bottom, a problems, java doc and declaration views and we will see some of these views in actions later. And here in the center you have the area. Which is called a code editor, which is where you'll be writing, editing, and modifying, basically, your code. This is where most of the action takes place. So let's start by creating a Java project. And to do that we can use either the context menu, or you can just use the menu, select new Java project. You'll be greeted by this, wizard, and. And at this point in the wizard, you can select the name of your project. I'm just going to call it a very simple way my project. And I going to use the default location for the project, as you can see it will be placed in the work space that I selected before. I'm going to also use the default. Java Runtime Environment, which is Java 1.7 in this case. I'm going to keep the selected default layout and the, then I'm going to go to the next step. Here, we're first presented with the location of the source code for our project. The default is a directory SRC in my project and for the output file, the directory bin. So repeat, we're now going to change that. Here in case you need other projects to build your own, then you can specify them here. Here we are building a simple project, so there's no need for that. And here we can specify which libraries our project requires. As you can see, the Java library's already specified. And you can also add other jars, which can even be External jars. And finally this is the tab that allows you to specify which part of you project. So how your project will be exported, so lets not worry about that for now. Lets click finish. And as you can see here on the package explorer, my project appeared. So now we can open the project by clicking on the triangle right next to it, and as you can see there is the SRC directory, where my source code will go, and there's also an indication that we're using the JRE, so that's the Java system directory within our project. And this is just for people who are interested in what happens you know, under the hood. So if you don't care about that, you can just skip this part. So basically here I'm showing you how we can go to the directory where the project was created. We can see the bin and src directories. And there's also some other files here that you can see these 'dot' files that you will not normally, see. And those are kind of bookkeeping files. So these are files that contain information about your project and that are created automatically by Eclipse. And, for example, will have various indication about the configuration of the project, some settings and the class path for the project. And, as I said, you don't have to worry about this if you just want to go Eclipse as you're never going to mess with the command line. So now that we know, we saw what happens under the hood, and as I said, don't worry about it if you don't care about that part. Now we can go back to Eclipse, and we can start creating a package. A package is basically a way of organizing your classes into a hierarchy. In this case, I'm going to specify the package name as edu.gatech, which means that I'm creating really two packages, a package gatech inside package edu. And I can start creating classes inside my packages. So here, I can use the contextual menu, select New>Class, and I'll get another wizard that will allow me to specify the name of the class. I'm not very creative here, so I'm just going to call it Hello World. There's many other parameters you can set, and in particular, you can define whether you want a main method in your class. Where having a main method means that your class can be the main class in your project, can be the one that is run when you run your project. After we click the button, the Finish button, we, we get the class. So we also get template code for the class, as you can see here, so we go to the editor function, you can see that there is a to do. Where you have to put your code, and here we are simply, basically printing, you know, the typical first program. We just going to print Hello World in Java. And something you can note is that as we are typing, Eclipse gives us a auto complete suggestions, which is very helpful. For example, in case you don't remember the exact syntax, or the method, or you don't remember the parameters of the method. Which is, you know, often the case especially where you work with large libraries. So having that feature can really, really help you. So now if we want to run our code we can either click on the button up here, or we can right-click in the Call window and select Run As Java Application. And if we do that, Eclipse will run our tool, and it will create, as you can see here, a console view that basically contains the textual output of my program. And as expected, the output is Hello World. So now that we have run our program, let's see what happens exactly when you run a program within Eclipse. And to do that I'm going to use the menu over here which is the Run menu and I'm going to select Run Configurations, and this brings up a window where you can change or run configurations. Well first of all, you can see that here on the left under Java application. Eclipse automatically created a Hello World run configuration for our program. And this is where you can configure the different parameters for your execution. For example, you can select the main class. So here it's, obviously, edu.gatech.HelloWorld. You can define different program arguments. We don't have any for now. You can also pass arguments to the virtual machine. You can define which Java runtime environment you want to use, Classpath and other environmental options. So let's now try to pass some arguments to our program. So for example here, I am just going to write George as a possible parameter. I say Apply so that modify the configuration and if i run the program of course, the output is not changing because my program does not use the argument. But, let's see if we do use the argument, what happens. So I'm going to slightly modify the final program so that now, instead of printing hello world, it will print hello followed by the first argument that I will pass to the program. And if I do that, and I go and I run the program, what I get is exactly what I was expecting, which is Hello George. So this is the way in which you can pass arguments to your execution, which is something that might come in handy for some other projects. When you need to run some code with an argument. Now let's look at how we can do debugging within Eclipse. I created a new file called AddNumbers which I'm showing here. It takes two numbers, parses them into integers, adds them and prints the sum, supposedly, of the two numbers. Now we look at the run configuration for this program, and here you can see that we're passing two arguments, two and five, to the program. So now let's run our program and see what happens. And the result says that 2 plus 5 is equal to 10, which is not exactly correct. So we need to debug our program. We need to figure out what's wrong with the program, why the wrong result was, produced. So we're going to add a break point here by double-clicking here on the side of the code. And the break point is basically a place where I'm telling my debugger to stop during the execution because I want to inspect the state of the program. So to start debugging, we select Debug as Java Application from the Context menu, similar to what we were doing for running the program. And as you can see, this asks us whether we want to pass to the debug perspective, which is a, a perspective specifically designed for debugging. We say yes. And as you see here, it shows us, it's like a different, set of views, so we can see the code down here with an indication of where the execution is. And of course the execution stopped at the break point, which is exactly where we told the debugger to stop. So let's look at some of the other views in this perspective. The view here on the right-hand side, for example, shows the variables in scope and the break points that are currently active for the debugging session. This is where the editor is at. The outline of the program and the console at the bottom. So now let's execute one line by clicking on the Step Over button here at the top, and this will execute the line that is currently highlighted and therefore it will move to the next line. And as you can see, one nice feature is that if I move the mouse over a variable, I can see the value of the variable. And the same thing I can do if I look at the variables windows here on the right. If I click it, it will tell me what is the value of the variable, and in case of more complex variables you can even expand it and get more details. So now let's step over another line by clicking again this button, and as you can see now we get to the line that is actually performing the sum, supposedly, so now let's do the same thing that we did before, and let's mouse over b, and we can see that the value of b is five, as expected. So now let's step over this line as well, and execute the actual sum. And doing the mouseover thing, we can see that the value of sum is ten, which is not right, of course. In fact, if we check a gain we can see that value of A is two. The value of B is five and therefore it's clear that there's something wrong going on here, and at this point we can notice that here we are doing multiplication instead of addition. And therefore that's what the error is. And this is clearly a very simple case. Right? A case in which probably you just needed to look at the code and you didn't need the debugger. But you probably got the idea right? So this can be extremely useful when you're debugging, when you're studying more complex programs. If you want to stop the debugger because you're done with your debugging session as in this case, you can either click here on the Terminate button or you can also just simply tell the debugger to continue the execution, to resume the execution until the program terminates naturally. So, in this case, we're going to click here just to show what happens. And what happens is that, you know, the execution will just continue until the program exits. So now let's say that we want to fix this problem that we just discovered. So we replace the multiplication with an addition, we save the program, and we execute the program again by clicking on this button. And at this point, unsurprisingly, we get the right result as shown in the console. Hi, everybody, and welcome to the first lesson of the Software Engineering Course. In this introductory lesson I will first provide an overview of the whole course and then try to answer two important questions about software engineering, which are, what is software engineering and why do we need it? And to spice up the content a bit I will also interview several experts in the software engineering field from both academia and industry and ask them these very questions. So without any further ado, let's begin the lesson. First, let me start by asking a couple of very natural questions that you might have when considering whether to take this course. The first one is what is software engineering. And the second, very related one, is why do we need it? So what I did was actually to go out and ask some of the main experts in the field, both in academia and industry, these very questions and let's see what they said. What is software engineering and why is it important? Okay, can I start with another question? Of course. Okay, first what is a computer? It's a programmable device. So the essence of computing is programming. So program development is basically the most essential use of the computer. So software engineering is the discipline that investigates program development. So, how can it been done more efficiently? What's the best way of doing program development? And how can you develop reliable programs? So that's how I would define it. But I consider any software development activity software engineering activity Software engineering is the systematic application of methods to build software in a rigorous way. And I think one of the aspects that I like to bring into the notion of software engineering is that it's something that involves not only kind of technically building the system but understanding the requirements, working with stake holders. Trying to find a solution that balances all of the stakeholder needs in order to deliver the software thats tested and its rigorous to meet the needs of a stakeholder. Well, software engineering is the whole process of creation of software using engineering principles. My view is kind of a holistic view and I think about it from the perspective of how is software engineering different from programming. So, I think that research about programming is all about the create part of software. And that software engineering is about the entire life cycle. So, that's one aspect. And the other aspect of the definition is it's about quality, the quality of software. Software engineering even considers things long after you ship which we all know is one of the, it is the largest economic piece of software development. So, improve, software engineering process for better software productivity and quality. The set of activities that one engages in when building software systems or software products. It's fundamentally a venue-creating activity. It involves social processes. Software engineering is the act of many people working together and putting together many versions of large and complex systems. And our world depends on software, software is immensely complex and we need many, many smart people to build these things. Well, engineering I think is the activity of envisioning and realizing valuable new functions with sufficient and justifiable confidence that the resulting system will have all of the critical quality attributes that are necessary for the system to be a success. And software engineering is the activity of doing this not only for the software components of engineering systems but for the system overall, given that it's so heavily reliant on it's underlying software technologies. So, I would say software engineering is the kind of art and practice of building software systems. Software engineering, in a nutshell, is a set of methods and principles and techniques that we have developed to enable us to engineer, or build, large software systems that outstrip or outpace one engineer's or even a small team of engineer's ability or abilities to understand and construct and maintain over time. So it requires a lot of people, it requires a long, term investment by an organization or a number of organizations, and often times it requires support for systems that that are intended for one purpose but end up getting used for many additional purposes in addition to the original one. Software engineering is about building and constructing very large-scale high-quality systems, so the high quality is the big issue. Software engineering is engineering discipline of developing software-based systems, usually embedded into larger systems composed of hardware and and humans [LAUGH] and business processes and processes in general. And why is that important? Well, because software is pervasive in all industry sectors and therefore systems must be reliable, safe and secure. Why can't we just get that by sitting down and writing software? Well, you could if software was small and simple enough to be developed by one or two people together in a room. But software development now is distributed, involves teams of people with different backgrounds who have to communicate with each other. It also involves customers, clients, users. Software engineers have to work with hardware engineers, with domain experts and therefore, well, no, we can't simply sit down and start coding. Software engineering is mostly being able to program. And you need to be able to put big systems together so that they actually work. That's my simple definition. And if you don't use software engineering practices, you're not going to be able to put them together? Well, you're not going to be able to reliably put them together. So basically, you could maybe hack something up, but it's not going to necessarily stand the test of time. If somebody wants to change it it's probably going to break. It's important because if you don't think about how you're building this system and how you're trading off different aspects, like performance and scalability and reliability, then it's going to end up breaking or not lasting very long or not, not doing everything that you want it to do, or being really expensive. If it's not done in a principled way it will be bad and every user will suffer. That's why we need software engineering. Why is it important? Because, I mean these two goal, productivity, faster, in developing software. And higher quality would be apparently important. Software is everywhere. It's important because we use software in everyday life. Everything's built on software systems. And these are ubiquitous across our society. It's important because software is everywhere around us and the way we build it, and the way we maintain it, is something that determines almost a basic quality of life nowadays. And getting that software right can make a difference, oftentimes, between a really fun product and one that you won't like to use a reasonably successful company, or one that fails. And in more extreme cases even the difference between life and death, if you think about the software that runs in the airplane on which many of you fly on a regular basis. There are programs out there that if they screw up we are all screwed. Software engineering is crucially important because it's the engineering discipline that is uniquely capable of carrying out the engineering mission for software reliant systems. In the U.S we've all seen an unfortunate example with a system that went badly wrong in healthcare.gov and that system wasn't engineered correctly. And I think if we look at the reasons for that, they stem back to somewhere at the intersection between requirements and architecture and politics and project management, and all of these things are important concepts that have to go into the software engineering mix. It would end up in lots and lots of chaos because people wouldn't know how to organize themselves and wouldn't know how to organize software. Many of software engineering has very simple rules that you need to apply properly in order to get things done. And people who look at these rules and think, these rules are so super simple. This is totally obvious. But once you try to apply them, you'll find out they're not obvious at all. Now that we've heard these experts, let me show you an example that illustrates what can happen when software engineering practices are not suitably applied. [NOISE]. Now that you watched this small video, I like to ask you, what is this? Do you think it's fireworks for the 4th of July celebration, or maybe it was a flare gun in action, or maybe again it was the explosion of the Ariane five rocket due to a software error. What do you think? And in case it helps, I'm also going to show you an actual picture of this event. As you probably guessed, these are not fireworks for the 4th of July but, rather, the explosion of the Ariane 5, which happened 30 seconds or so after takeoff due to a software error. And this is just an example of what can go wrong when we don't build software and we don't test and verify and perform quality assurance of software in the right way, and quite an expensive one. In fact, to develop and to build the Ariane 5 it took 10 years. The cost was around $7 billion and there were $500 million of cargo on board. Luckily, at least there were no humans on the rocket. And you can find more details in case you're interested about the Ariane 5 accident in the lesson notes. I put a couple of links there. And even if we don't go to these extreme examples, I'm sure that you have all experienced software problems, typically manifested in what we call a crash. And that crash might happen while you're finishing your homework or that three-page long email that you were preparing for the last two hours. But why's it so difficult to build software, or better, why's it so difficult to build good software? And how can we do it? This is exactly the topic of this class. And the reason why software engineering is a fundamental discipline in computer science. To motivate that, in this class, we will study a set of methodologies, techniques, and tools, that will help us build high quality software that does what it's supposed to do. And therefore, makes our customers happy. And that does it within the given time and money constraints. So within the budget that is allocated for the software. Before jumping into today's software engineering techniques though, let me take a step back and look at how we got here, as I believe it is very important to have some historical perspective on how this discipline was born and how it was developed over the years. To do that we'll have to go back in time to the late 60s. So what was happening in the 60s? Well for example the first man landed on the moon. That was also time when Woodstock took place and also the time when the first 60 second picture from Polaroid was created. Concurrently to these events, which you probably didn't witness in first person, that was also the time when people started to realize that they were not able to build the software they needed. This happened for several reasons and resulted in what we call the software crisis. So let's look at some of the most important reasons behind this crisis. The first cause was the rising demand for software. Now you're used to see software everywhere: in your phone, in your car, even your washing machine. Before the 60s, however, the size and complexity of software was very limited and hardware components were really dominating the scene. Then things started to change and software started to be increasingly prevalent. So we move from a situation where everything was mostly hardware to a situation in which software became more and more important. To give an example, I'm going to show you the growth in the software demand at NASA along those years. And in particular, from the 1950s to more or less 2000. And this is just a qualitative plot but that's more or less the ways things went. So the demand for software in NASA grow exponentially. And the same happened in a lot of other companies. For example, just to cite one, for Boeing. So the amount of software on airplanes became larger and larger. The second cause for the software crisis was the increasing amount of development effort needed due to the increase of product complexity. Unfortunately, software complexity does not increase linearly with size. It is not the same thing to write software for a class exercise or a small project, or a temp project, than it is to build a software for a word processor, an operating system, a distributed system, or even more complex and larger system. And what I'm giving here is just an indicative size for the software so the class exercise might be 100 lines of code, the small project might be 1000 lines of code, in the other thousand lines of code, and so on and so forth. For the former, the heroic effort of an individual developer can get the job done. So that's what we call a programming effort. If you're a good programmer, you can go sit down and do it, right. For the latter, this is not possible. This is what we called the software engineering effort. In fact, no matter how much programming languages, development environments, and software tools improve, developers could not keep up with increasing software size and complexity. Which leads us to the third problem that I want to mention and the third reason for the software crisis. And this cause is the slow developer's productivity growth. So let me show this again with a qualitative diagram. And this is taken from the IEEE Software Magazine. And what I'm showing here is the growth in software size and complexity over time, and how the developers' productivity really couldn't keep up with this additional software complexity, which resulted in this gap between what was needed and what was actually available. So now let's take a quick break and have a recap of what we just discussed. I want you to think about what are the major causes of the software crisis. I'm going to provide you a set of possibilities and I would like for you to mark all that apply. Was that increasing costs of computers? Was it increasing product complexity, or maybe the lack of programmers? Or was it, instead, this slow programmers productivity growth? The lack of funding for software engineering research? The rise in demand for software? And finally, was it maybe the lack of caffeine in software development organizations? Again, mark all that apply. So, if you think about what we just discussed. Definitely one of the causes was the increasing product complexity. Products were becoming more and more complex and software was replacing more and more, what was before, provided by hardware components. Slow productivity growth was another problem, because programmers could not keep up with the additional complexity of the software that they had to develop. I would like to say there was lack of funding for software engineering research because I'm a software engineering researcher, but that was not one of the reasons for the software crisis. Instead, it was the rising demand for software. Again, more and more software was being required and more and more software was replacing hardware. After recapping the three major issues that characterize a software crisis let's see what was the evidence that there was indeed a crisis. So what I want to discuss now is the result of a study performed by Davis in 1990s. So in even more recent times than the 60s and the 70s. And the study was performed on nine software projects that were totaling a cost around $7 million and I'm going to show you how this projects went using this representation, this pi representation, in which I'm going to discuss what each of the segment of the pi represent. So lets start looking at the first one. This is a software that was usable as delivered. Other software was delivered, and usable, either after some changes or after some major modifications, so within additional costs involved. But the striking piece of information here is that the vast majority of the software, so these two slices, were software that was either delivered but never successfully used or software that was not even delivered. And this corresponded to five over the seven total million dollars for all the projects. So clearly, this shows a pretty grim picture for software development and its success. In short, there was clear evidence the software was becoming to difficult too build and that the software industry was facing a crisis. And this is what led to the NATO Software Engineering Conference that was held in January 1969, which is what we can consider the birth of software engineering. And what I'm showing here is a drawing of the proceedings for that conference. And if you look at the class notes you can see a link to the actual proceedings, in case you are interested in looking at the issues that were discussed. Now that we saw how software engineering was born and we saw some of the problems that led to the birth of software engineering. Let's see how we can do better. How can we preform software development in a smarter, in a better way, a more successful way? So what I'm going to show here is the way I see software development. To me software development is fundementally going from an abstract idea in somebody's head, for example, the customer's head, to a concrete system that actually implements that idea and hopefully it does it in the right way. And this is a very complex process. It can be overwhelming. So, unless we are talking about the trivial system, it's very complex for us to keep in mind all the different aspects of the systems, and to do all the different steps required to build this system, automatically. So that's when software processes come to the rescue. So what is a software process? A software process is nothing else but a way of breaking down this otherwise unmanageable task into smaller steps. In smaller steps that we can handle. And that can be tackled individually. So having a software process is of fundamental importance for several reasons. First of all, for non-trivial systems, you can't just do it by getting it, by just sitting down and developing. What you have to do instead is to break down the complexity in a systematic way. So software processes are normally systematic. And you need to break down this complexity, in a more or less formal way. So software processes are also a formal, or semiformal, way of discussing, or describing, how software should be developed. So what are the steps involved in developing software? One thing you need to know right away about software processes is that there's not just one single process, but there are multiple, possible processes, depending on your context, depending on the kind of applications that you are developing. In this course, we are going to try to cover the spectrum of the possible processes, as much as possible, by focusing on four main software processes. The first one is what we call normally the waterfall process. And, we call it waterfall because in the process we go from one phase to the other in the same way in which water follows the flow in a waterfall. The second process that we consider is what we call evolutionary prototyping, and in this case, instead of following this set of rigid steps, all we're trying to do is to start with an initial prototype and evolve it based on the feedback from the customer. We will then move towards a slightly more formal process, which is the rational unified process or the unified software process. And this is a kind of project heavily based on the use of UML, so we will also cover UML when discussing this kind of project. Finally, the fourth kind of process we will consider is the family of agile software processes. And these are processes in which we sacrifice the discipline a little bi,t in order to be more flexible and be more able to account for changes and in particular for changes in requirements. We are going to cover each one of these four processes extensively in the rest of the class. So, now before we actually jump to the discussion of software processes I want to ask you a couple of preliminary questions. The first one is, what is the largest software system on which you had worked? And you should enter here the size. And the second question I'm going to ask is how many LOC or how many lines of code per day you were producing when working on this system? We're going to go back to these two questions and to your answers later. But I wanted to gather this information beforehand, so that your answers are not biased, they're not influenced by this subsequent discussion. So now I want to ask you one additional question, which is how many lines of code a day do you think professional software engineers produce? Do you think they produce 25 lines of code? Between 25 and 50? Between 50 and 100? Between 100 and 1000? Or more than 1000 a day? And remember that here we're talking about professional software engineers. Studies has shown that, on average, developers produce between 50 and 100 lines of code a day. And that might not seem much. Why, why only 50 to 100 lines of code in a whole day? And the answer is because coding is not everything. When you develop a system writing code is not the only thing you have to do. It's not the only activity that you have to perform. And that's a very important point. In fact, software processes are normally characterized by several phases, what we call the software phases, and only one of these phases is mainly focused on coding. The other phases are meant to support other parts of software development. The first of these phases is called requirements engineering and that's the phase in which we talk to the customer, to the stakeholders, whoever we are building the software for. And we try to understand what kind of system we need to build. Then we use this information to define our design and the design is the high-level structure, that then can become more and more detailed, of our software system. Once we've defined our design we can actually move to the next phase, which is the implementation, in which we write code that implements the design which we just defined. After implementing the code, we need to verify and validate the code. We need to make sure that the code behaves as intended. And finally, we need to maintain the code. And maintenance involves several activities like, for example, adding new functionality or eliminating bugs from the code or responding to problems that were reported from the field after we released the software. We will look at all of these activities and of the software development process in detail, in the rest of the class. And for each activity, we will look at the fundamental principles and how it is done currently. And in some cases, we will also look at some advance ways to do it. For example, more research approaches for that activity. We will also look at how tools can improve software phases, the software activities, and can support software development tasks in general. And this is something that I will repeat over and over in the class, tools and automation are fundamental, in software engineering. And they're fundamental for improving productivity, not only efficiency but also effectiveness of our activities in the software development process. So let me go back to one of the diagrams that I showed you before. If you remember we had this qualititive diagram in which we were showing that one of the issues that led to the software crisis was the fact that developers' productivity was not able to keep up with the software size and complexity, with the growth in the importance and the complexity of software. What tools can help us to do is to change this and basically move this curve from this original position up here. So that it gets closer and closer to what we need to develop the software that we need to build. So let me discuss examples on how tools can improve productivity. For example, if we are talking about development, think about what kind of improvement it was to go from punch cards to modern IDEs. If we're talking about languages, think about of how much more productive developers became when going from writing machine code to writing code in high-level languages. And finally, if we talk about debugging, which is a very important and expensive activity, moving from the use of print lines to the use of symbolic debuggers dramatically improve the effectiveness and efficiency of development. And these are just some of the tools that we will discuss in the rest of the class and notice that we will also use the tools in practice. So we will use the tools before projects and also during the lessons and for assignments. In particular, we will use three main kinds of tools. The first type is IDE's. And I'm pretty sure you're familiar with IDE's. These are integrated development environments. So, advanced editors in which you can write, compile, run, and debug and even test your code. We'll also use a version control system, systems that allow you to save, and restore, and check the differences between different versions of the code, in particular we will be working with git. We will also be looking at other kinds of tools like coverage and verification tools. These are tools that can help you during testing and I'm a big fan of these tools, so I'm really going to stress the usefulness of these tools and how you should use them in your development. Hi, in the last lesson we provided an overview of the course and motivated the need for software engineering. In this lesson, we will present and start discussing several traditional software engineering life cycle models. We will talk about their main advantages, and also about their shortcomings. We will also talk about classic mistakes in software engineering that is well known ineffective development practices, that when followed, tend to lead to better results. And covering those, will hopefully help us to avoid them in the future. And because in this lesson, I will discuss some fundamental aspects of software engineering, to suitably introduce these topics, I went to the University of Southern California, to interview one of the fathers of software engineering; Professor Barry Boehm. A well, a software life cycle is a sequence of, of decisions that you make, and it's fundamentally those decisions are going to be part of the history of the software that. You are going to build that other people are going to use, and the process model is basically answering the question of what do I do next and how long shall I do it for. And again, because there are a lot of different ways you can make that decision, you need to figure out which models are good for which particular situations. So, for example, we've, written a book that's called Balancing Agility and Discipline. It says under what conditions should you use agile methods, under which conditions should you invest more time in analyzing the situation and planning what you're going to do and the like. And so, typically if the project is, is small where it's three to ten people, agile works pretty well. If it's 300 people, then I think we don't want to go that way. If the affect of the defect is loss of comfort or limited funds, then agile is fine, but if it is a loss of life, then you don't. On the other hand if, if you have a situation where you have lot of unpredictable change, you really don't want to spend a lot of time writing plans and lots of documents. In some cases you may have a project where you want to do waterfall in some parts and agile in others. So, these are the kind of things that, that make the choice of life cycle process model very important and very interesting as a subject of research. As we just heard from Professor Bohem, software engineering is an important and critical discipline, concerned with cost effective software development. We also heard that this is based on a systematic approach that uses appropriate tools and techniques, operates under specific development constraints. And most importantly, follows a process. As we discussed in the previous lesson, the software development process contains fundamental activities, or phases. Since we will discuss several processes, I'm going to remind you what these phases are. We start with requirements engineering, followed by design, implementation, verification and validation, and finally maintenance. Note that we will revisit each of these phases and devote an entire lesson or more to each phase. So what I want to do next is simply to give you a quick overview of what these phases are. Note also that for now I will follow a very traditional take on these topics. Later on in the class we will see how things can change and did change over the years. So, let's start with requirements engineering, which is the field within software engineering that deals with establishing the needs of stakeholders that are to be solved by the software. So why is this phase so important? In general, the cost of correcting an error depends on the number of subsequent decisions that are based on it. Therefore, errors made in understanding requirements have the potential for greatest cost because many other design decisions depend on them and many other follow up decisions depend on them. In fact, if we look at this diagram, which is again a qualitative diagram, where we have the cost of error correction over the phase in which the error is discovered. We can see that if we discover an error in requirements it's going to cost us one. If we find it in in design it's going to cost us five and so on and so forth. And the cost grows dramatically as we go from the requirements phase to the maintenance phase. Why? Because of course if we discover a problem here we're left to undo a lot of the decision that we had made before to correct the error. Whereas if we find an error here we can correct it right away and we don't affect the subsequent phases. So how can we collect the right requirements. Traditional requirements in engineering does so through a set of steps. The first step is elicitation which is the collection of requirements from stake holders and other sources and can be done in a variety of ways, we will discuss some of them. The second is requirement analysis which involved the study and deeper understanding of the collective requirements. The third step is this specification of requirements, in which the collective requirements are suitably represented, organized and save so that they can be shared. Also in his case, there are many ways to do this, and we will see some of this ways when we talk about the requirements engineering in the dedicated lesson. Once the requirements have been specified, they can be validated to make sure that they're complete, consistent, no redundant and so on. So that they've satisfied a set of importance properties, for requirements. Finally, the fifth step is requirements management which accounts for changes to requirements during the lifetime of the project. And here I talked about steps, kind of giving the impression that we're just going from the first step to the fifth one and that this is sort of a linear process. In reality, as we will see, this is more of an iterative process in which will go and cover the different phases in an iterative fashion. We will discuss extensively requirements engineering in our second mini-course. Now let's discuss the next phase of software development, which is software design. Software design is the phase where software requirements are analyzed in order to produce a description of the internal structure and organization of the system. And this description will serve as the basis for the construction of the actual system. Traditionally, the software design phase consists of a series of design activities. Which normally consists of the architectural design phase, the abstract specification, interface design, component design, data structure and algorithm design. And notice that this is just a possible list of activities. But you can also characterize design activities in many different ways. And if you're looking at different books, and different sources, you might find different activities described. But the core idea, the important point is that we go from sort of a high-level view of the system, which is the architectural design, to a low-level view, which is the algorithm design. And these activities result in a set of design products, which describe various characteristics of the system. For example, they describe the architecture of the system, so how the system is decomposed and organized into components, the interfaces between these components. They also describe these components into a level of details that is suitable for allowing their construction. We will discuss the details of software design and talk extensively about these different actives and these different products in the third mini course of this class. After we have designed our system we can implement it. In the implementation phase what we do is basically taking care of realizing the design of the system that we just created and create an actual software system. There are four fundamental principles, four pillars that can affect the way in which software is constructed. The first one is the reduction of complexity. This aims to build software that is easier to understand and use. The second pillar is the anticipation of diversity. Which takes into account that software construction might change in various way over time. That is that software evolves. In many cases, it evolves in unexpected ways. And therefore, we have to be able to anticipate some of these changes. The third pillar is the structuring for validation. Also called design for testability. And what this means is that we want to build software so that it is easily testable during the subsequent validation and verification activities. Finally, and this is especially true within specific organizations and or domains. It is important that the software conforms to a set of internal or external standards. And some examples of this might be, for example, for internal standards, coding standards within an organization, or naming standards within an organization. As for external standards, if for example you are developing some medical software. There are some regulations and some standards that you have to adhere to in order for your software to be valid in that domain. After we have built our system, verification and validation is that phase of software development that aims to check that the software system meets its specification and fulfills its intended purpose. More precisely, we can look at verification and validation independently. And validation is the activity that answers the question did we build the right system. Did we build the system that the customer wants? That will make the customer happy. Whereas verification answers a different question which is did we build the system right. So given a description of the system that is the one that we derived from the customer through the collection of requirements and then design and so on, did we build a system that actually implements the specification that we defined? And when we look at verification there's many, many ways of doing verification and in fact in the mini course number four we will cover verification extensively. The only thing I want to mention here is the fact that verification can be performed at different levels. In particular, it can be performed at the unit level in which we test that the individual units work as a expected. Can be performed in the integration level in which what we test is the interaction between the different units. So we want to make sure that the different modules talk to each other in the right way. And finally, there is system testing in which we test the system as a whole and we want to make sure that all the system, all the different pieces of the system work together in the right way. And this is also the level at which then we will apply validation and some other testing techniques like stress testing or robustness testing and so on. And as I said I'm not going to say anything more on this topic because we will cover verification, and validation, and testing in particular in great details in mini course number four. As we discussed before software development efforts normally result in the delivery of a software product that satisfies the user requirements. So normally our software development organization will release this application to its final users, however, once the software is in operation many things can happen. So, for example, the environment might change. There might be new libraries. There might be new systems in which our software has to operate. Or they may be future requests, so the users may find out that, guess what, they want to do something different with the problem that we gave them. Or, again, and this is one of the most common occurrences, users might find problems with the software and may file bug reports and send the bug reports back to the software developer. These are the reasons why software maintenance is a necessary phase in software development. Software maintenance is the activity that sustains the software product as it evolves throughout its life cycle, specifically in response to bug reports, feature requests and environment changes. Development organisations perform three kinds of maintenance activities: corrective maintenance to eliminate problems with the code, perfective maintenance to accommodate feature request, and in some cases just to improve the software, for example, to make it more efficient, and finally, adaptive maintenance, to take care of the environment changes. And after this activities have been performed, the software developer will produce a new version of the application, will release it and the cycle will continue through out the lifetime of the software. That's why maintenance is a fundamental activity and a very expensive one. And one of the reasons why maintenance is expensive, that I want to mention now, is regression testing. During maintenance every time you modify your application you have to regression test the application, where regression testing is the activity of retesting software after it has been modified to make sure that the changes you perform to the software work as expected, and that your changes did not introduce any unforseen effect. I'm pretty sure that you're familiar with the case of a new version of the software being released and just a couple of days later another version being released to fix some problems that occor with the new version. These problems is what we call regression errors and they're what regression testing targets and tries to eliminate before the new version of the software is released into the world. Okay. Now before we jump into the next topic, I just want to take a very quick and simple quiz just to make sure that you guys paid attention to what I just discussed. So I want to ask you what are the traditional software phases. Requirements engineering, design, abstraction, implementation, verification and validation. Or maybe design, optimization, implementation verification and validation and maintenance. Or requirements engineering, design, implementation, verification and validation, and maintenance. And the answer is the third one. The traditional software phases which are the ones that we just discussed are requirements engineering, design, implementation, verification and validation, and maintenance. At this point, you know the possible activities, the possible phases performed during the software development process. But there this something that we still haven't discussed, which is very important. And that is how should we put these activities together to develop software? And this all comes down to the concept of software process model. Also called software lifecycle model. And what this is, is a prescriptive model of what should happen from the very beginning to the very end. Of a software development process. The main function of the life cycle model is to determine the order of the different activities so that we know which activities should come first and which ones should follow. Another important function of the life cycle model is to determine the transition criteria between activities. So, when we can go from one phase to the subsequent one. In other words, what the model should describe is what should we do next and how long should we continue to do it for each activity in the model. Now lets see a few traditional software process models. I will discuss them here at the high level and then revisit some of these models in the different mini courses. The first model we want to discuss is the grandfather of all life cycle models. And it is the waterfall model. In the waterfall model the project progresses to an orderly sequence of steps. From the initial software concept, down until the final phase. Which is system testing. And at the end of each phase there will be a review to determine whether the project is ready to advance to the next phase. The pure waterfall model performs well for softer products in which there is a stable product definition. The domain is well known and the technologies involved are well understood. In these kind of domains, the waterfall model helps you to find errors in the early, local stages of the projects. If you remember what we discussed, this is the place where we want to find errors, not down here because finding them here will reduce the cost of our overall software development. The main advantage of the waterfall model is that it allows you to find errors early. However, the main disadvantages of the waterfall model arise from the fact that it is not flexible. Normally, it is difficult to fully specify requirements at the beginning of a project. And this lack of flexibility is far from ideal when dealing with project in which requirements change, the developers are not domain experts or the technology used are new and evolving, that is it is less than ideal for most real world projects. The next model that we will discuss is the spiral model, which was first described by Barry Boehm, which is the professor that we interviewed at the beginning of this lesson. In his paper from 1986 that was entitled A Spiral Model of Software Development and Enhancement. And one of the main characteristics of that paper is that it was describing the spiral model using a diagram, which is the one that I'm showing you here, and this diagram has become very very popular, and you probably saw it either in this form or one of the many variations of the diagram. So I'm not going to discuss all of the details of the spiral model, but I just want to give you an idea of its main characteristics. The spiral model is an incremental risk-oriented lifecycle model that has four main phases listed here: determine objectives, identify and resolve risks, development and tests, and plan the next iteration. A software project will go through these four phases in an iterative way. In the first phase, the requirements will be gathered. In the second phase, the risks and the alternate solutions will be identified, and a prototype will be produced. Software and tests for the software are produced in the development and test phase, which is the third step of the process. Finally, in the fourth phase, the output of the project, so far, is evaluated, and the next iteration is planned. So basically, what the spiral process prescribes is a way of developing software by going through these phases in an iterative way, in which we learn more and more of the software, we identify more and more, and account for, more and more risks and we go more and more towards our final solution, our final release. There are several advantages of using a spiral model. The first one is that the extensive risk analysis does reduce the chances of the project to fail. So there is a risk reduction advantage. The second advantage is that functionality can be added at a later phase because of the iterative nature of the process. And finally, software is produced early in the software lifecycle. So, at any iteration, we have something to show for our development. We don't wait until the end before producing something. And then of course there's also the advantage that we can get early feedback from the customer about what we produced. The main disadvantages on the other hand of the spiral model, are that the risk analysis requires a highly specific expertise. And unfortunately, the whole success of the process is highly dependent on risk analysis. So risk analysis has to be done right. And finally the spiral model is way more complex than other models, like for example, the water fall model. And therefore it can be costly to implement. The next process model I want to discuss is evolutionary prototyping, which works in four main phases. We start from an initial concept, then we design and implement a prototype based on this initial concept, refine the prototype until it is acceptable, and finally we complete and release the prototype. Therefore, when developing a system using evolutionary prototyping, the system is continually refined and rebuilt. So it is an ideal process when not all requirements are well understood. Which is a very common situation. So, looking at this in a little more details, what happens is that developers start by developing the parts of the system that they understand, instead of working on developing a whole system, including parts that might not be very clear at that stage. The partial system is then shown to the customer and the customer feedback is used to drive the next iteration, in which either changes are made to the current features or new features are added. So, either the current prototype is improved or the prototype is extended. And finally, when the customer agrees that the prototype is good enough, the developers will complete all the remaining work on the system and release the prototype as the final product. So let's discuss as we did for the previous process models, what are the main advantages and disadvantages of evolutionary prototyping. In this case, the main advantage is the immediate feedback. Developers get feedback immediately as soon as they produce a prototype and they show it to the customer and therefore, the risk of implementing the wrong system is minimized. The main negative is the fact that it's difficult to plan. When using evolutionary prototype it is difficult to plan in advance how long the development is going to take, because we don't know how many iterations will be needed. And another drawback is that it can easily become an excuse to do kind of do cut and fix kind of approaches in which we hack something together, fix the main issues when the customer gives us feedback, and then continue this way, until the final product is something that is kind of working, but it's not really a product of high quality. Something else I want to point out before we move to the next software process model is that there are many different kinds of prototyping, so evolutionary prototyping is just one of them. For example, throwaway prototyping is another kind of prototyping in which the prototype is just used to gather requirements, but is thrown away at the end of the requirements gathering, instead of being evolved as it happens here. There are two more software process models that I want to cover, so bear with me. The first one is the Rational Unified software Process or IUP, which is s a very popular one based on UML. RUP works in an iterative way, which means it that it performs different iterations. And at each iteration, it performs four phases. So what I'm showing you here, is a high level view of the process. And I don't want you to focus on all the different details, because we will discuss these details later on, in a lesson that is actually dedicated to RUP. What I want to give you now, is just the gist of how this works. So, in each one of these four phases, which I'm going to describe in a second. We perform standard software engineering activities, the ones that we just discussed. And we do them to different extent, based on the phase in which we are. In particular, in the inception phase the work is mostly to sculpt the system. So basically figuring out what is the scope of the work, what is the scope of the project, what is the domain. So that we can be able to perform initial cost and budget estimates. The operational phase is the phase in which we focus on the domain analysis and define the basic architecture for the system. So this is a phase in which analysis and design are particularly paramount. Then there is a construction phase, which is where the bulk of the development actually occurs. And as you can see here, is where most of the implementation happens. And finally, the transition phase is the phase in which the system goes from development into production, so that it becomes available to users. And of course, this is the phase in which the other activities in software development become less relevant and deployment becomes the main one. The next type of software process models that I want to discuss are Agile Software Development Processes. And this is a group of software development methods that are based on highly iterative and incremental development. And in particular, I'm going to discuss Test Driven Development or TDD. The space on the iteration of three main phases. In the first one that we mark as red, we write test cases that encode our requirements, and for which we haven't written code yet. And therefore, they will fail, obviously. So we're in this sort of red or fail phase. From this phase, we move to this phase, in which after we write the just enough code to make the test cases pass. We have a set of test cases that are all passing. And therefore, we can consider this as the green phase. We had enough code to make the test cases pass because the test cases encode our requirements. We have just written enough code to satisfy our requirements. When we do this over time though, what happens is that the structure of the code deteriorates, because we keep adding pieces. So that's why we have the first step, which is refactoring. In this step, we modify the code, and we will talk about refactoring extensively. We'll devote one lesson to it. We modify the code to make it more readable, more maintainable. In general, we modify to improve the design of the code. And after this phase, we will go back to writing more test cases for new requirements, write code that makes these test cases pass, and so on. So we'll continue to iterate among these phases. And also, in this case, we will talk about Agile Software Processes. And in particular, about extreme programming, or XP, and Scrum in more details, in minor course number four. We just saw several software process models, and there are many, many more. And because these process models define the master plan for our project, the specific process model that we choose has as much influence over a project's success as any other major planning decision that we make. Therefore, it is very important that we pick the appropriate model for our development process. Picking an appropriate model can ensure the success of a project. On the contrary, if we choose the wrong model, that can be a constant source of problems and ultimately, it can make the project fail. So how can we choose the right model for a project? To be able to do so, we have to take into consideration many factors. In particular, we need to be aware of what level of understanding we have of the requirements. Do we understand all the requirements? Are we going to be able to collect all the requirements in advance, or collecting requirements is going to be hard and therefore, we might want to follow a process that is more flexible with that respect. Another important point is the expected lifetime of the project. Is this a quick project that we are putting together for a specific purpose or something that's going to last for for a number of years and that we're going to maintain over all those years? That's going to make a difference in the way we decide to develop that project. Also, what is the level of risk involved? Do we know the domain very well? Do we know exactly the technologies involved? Well, if so, we might go with a more traditional process. Otherwise, we might want to be more agile, more flexible. It is also very important to know the schedule constraints. How much time, how many resources do we have for this project? What is the expected interaction with the management and the customer? In particular for this ladder, there are many processes that rely on the fact that there can be a continuous interaction with the customer. If that interaction is not there, there's no way we are going to be able to use these processes. Conversely, there are processes that don't require the presence of the customer at all, except for the initial phase and maybe some checking points and so if the customer is very inaccessible, we might want to follow one of those processes, instead of one of the more demanding ones in terms of customer's time. Finally, it is important to take into account the level of the expertise of the people involved. Do we have people that know the technologies that we're using? Do we know people that know a specific kind of process? Some processes require some specific expertise and we're not going to be able to follow that process if we don't have the right expertise. So we need to take into account all of these aspects, and sometimes more, in order to be able to make the right decision and pick the right software process model for our project. Now before we move to the last part of the lesson, let's have a quick quiz on software process models to make sure that we are all on the same page. So I am going to ask you two questions. The first question is which of the following models is most suitable to develop a software control system? And when you think about the software control system, you can think about for example the control system for the software in an airplane. Would you rather use a pure waterfall model? Test driven development? Or an evolutionary prototyping approach? This is the context in which, typically, a pure waterfall process will work well. Why? Well, because it's a context in which requirements are usually well understood. The domain is well understood, so that kind of system has been built many times before. And also, it's a system in which we don't expect requirements to change dramatically over time. Therefore, a waterfall model, in which we collect all the requirements at the beginning and then we move to the subsequent phases might be the most appropriate one. Probably we don't want to do evolutionary prototyping in the case of the control system for an airplane. Same thing holds for TDD, so we want to be a little more rigorous in those cases. The second question I want to ask you is which model is the most suitable if you expect mid-course corrections? Would you rather use a pure waterfall model, a spiral model, or evolutionary prototyping? In this case, I think about the spiral model, and evolutionary prototyping model will work. Definitely you don't want to have a pure water from water. Why? Well because it is very expensive with a pure waterfall model to make changes during the course of the project, especially changes that involve requirements. Why? Because we saw that it can be very expensive. Whereas with the spiral model, we saw that being iterative, we can actually make correction throughout development. Similarly, with evolutionary prototyping, we keep evolving our system based on the customer feedback. And therefore, if something changes, we will get feedback right away, and we will be able to adapt. So the key thing here is that anything that is iterative works better in the case of changing environments. So, situations in which your requirements, the situation, the project might change. Whereas waterfall is more appropriate for situations in which the requirements are stable, we know the domain, and possibly we also know the technologies involved. Now that we discussed softer process models, there is another important point I want to cover, because it's going to be useful for your projects. Documenting the activities carried out during the different phases of the softer lifecycle, is a very important task. The documents that we produce are used for different purposes, such as communicative details of the software systems. To difference the colors, ensure the correct implementation of the system, facilitate maintenance, and so on. There are standardized document that are provided by IEEE that you can use for this purpose. However, they're kind of heavyweight. So for the project in this class, when we will need them, I will rather use this lightweight documents. That we created by modifying the original ones, and make them a little simpler. In this, our documents are actually used, while teaching this class in the past. So they're well tested and work well for the kind of projects that we will perform. I provide information on how to access these documents in the class notes. Now we get to the final part of the lesson. And in this part I want to talk about well known, ineffective development practices. These practices, when followed, tend to lead to predictably bad results. So let's look at some examples of these classic mistakes. And we're going to start with mistakes involving people. And notice that there is a long list. So I'm going to discuss just a few of those mistakes. And I'm going to point you to more information on this topic in the class notes. And some of these mistakes are actually kind of entertaining. So I'll recommend that you look at the class notes and go in more depth in this list. So the first people mistake I want to mention is the one that I define, heroics. And this refers to too much emphasis on can do attitudes, so this idea that one person by himself or by herself can do everything and can make the difference in the whole project. And unfortunately, this encourages extreme risk taking and discourages cooperation, which is plain bad for the project. For example, it might force people not to report schedule slips. It might force people to take on on too much responsibility. And normally, and I saw it happen many times, the final result is a failure. So what you want when you're developing a larger project, is actually to apply soft engineering principles. Have teams, have team work, and have cooperation among the different team members, without pointing too much on single individuals. Another classic mistake is to not create the right working environment. We all like to work in nice environments. And there is strong evidence that the working environments can play a big role in productivity. There is evidence that productivity increases when the workplace is nice, quiet, warm, and welcoming. Finally, some of the most important people relating mistakes are due to poor people management. For example, lack of leaderships, or leadership that is exercised using the wrong means in the wrong way, which can lead to very unhappy personnel and therefore, low productivity, or even people leaving teams. Another classic example of poor management is adding people to a project that is behind schedule, which never works. Why it doesn't work? Because these new people need to be brought up to speed, and that causes further delays rather than improving the situation with the project schedule. Another type of classic mistakes are process-related mistakes. And also in this case, these kind of mistakes can be due to many reasons. And they are of many types. One typical example are scheduling issues, which are due to the fact of being unable to come up with a realistic schedule. So to have an overly optimistic schedule. And this can be because we underestimate the effort involved in different parts of the project. Because we overestimate the ability of the people involved. Because we overestimate the importance, for example, of the use of tools. But no matter what the reason is, the result is typically that the projects end up being late, which is a very common situation. So this is somehow related to planning. And in general, planning is a fundamental factor in software processes and in software development. Mistakes in planning, such as insufficient planning or abandoning planning due to pressure, usually lead inexorably to failure. And speaking of failures, often there are unforeseen failures. Such as failures on the constructor's end, for example, that might lead to low quality or late deliverables, which ultimately affects the downstream activities. The third category of mistakes that I want to mention is product-related mistakes. A typical example of product-related mistake is gold plating of requirements. And what that means is basically is that it's very common for projects to have more requirements than they actually need. For example, marketing might want to add more features than the ones that are actually needed by the users. And of course having more requirements lengthens the project's schedule in a totally unnecessary way. Feature creep is another common mistake and consists in adding more and more features to a product that were not initially planned and are not really needed in most cases. And here there is evidence that the average project experiences about a 25% growth in the number of features over its lifetime which can clearly highly effect The project schedule. Finally, if you're working on a project that strains the limits of computer science. For example, because you need to develop new algorithms for the project, or you have to use new techniques. Then that project might be more research than actual development. And therefore, it should be managed accordingly. For example, by taking into account that you will have a highly unpredictable schedule. The final type of classic mistakes that I want to mention are technology related mistakes. One typical mistake in this context is the silver-bullet syndrome. What does that mean? Well, the silver-bullet syndrome refers to situations in which there is too much reliance on the advertised benefits of some previously unused technology. For example, a new technology. And the problem here is that we cannot expect technology alone to solve our software development issues. So we should not rely too much on technology alone. Another typical mistake is to switch or add tools in the middle of a project. And sometimes it can make sense to upgrade a tool, but introducing new tools, which can have a steep learning curve, has almost always negative effects. Finally, a common unforgivable mistake is the lack of an automated version control system for your code and for your various artifacts. Manual and ad hoc solutions are just not an option. It is way too easy to make mistakes, use out of date versions, be unable to find a previous working version, and so on. I saw that happening many times, and it always results in a disaster. So be warned, use a version control system and an automated one. And actually we will use version control systems in our projects. To conclude this lesson, I'm going to have a simple quiz and what I'm going to ask you is, which kind of mistake adding people to a late project is? And you can pick between a people mistake, a product mistake, a technology mistake, or maybe this is not a mistake at all, it is actually okay to add people to a project that is late. You probably got this one right. The right answer is that this is a people mistake. And despite the fact that this is an easy answer, I just want to make sure to stress once more. Because this is a very classic mistake. And one that can have dire consequences. You should never add people, to a late project. Because in 99.9% of the cases, that's only going to make things worse. Why? Because these people have to be brought up to speed, and also because having more also makes the communication more difficult, the meetings more difficult and so on. So in short, do not add people to a late project. Hi. In the last lesson we discussed requirements engineering. This lesson is about object orientation and other related concepts. The lesson is split in two main parts. In the first part, we will provide a quick introduction to object orientation and object oriented analysis and design. In the second part, we will cover the essential of UML, which is the notation that we will use in the rest of the course and also in our projects. Let's start with a quick introduction to object orientation and the fundamental concepts behind it. And let's start by discussing what exactly is object orientation? If you're younger than me, it could be that the first programming language you learned was already an object-oriented language. But things were not always like this. Before object orientation became prevalent, people were not used to thinking in terms of objects. So what happened afterwards? And what does it mean to think in terms of objects and to follow an object-oriented approach? First of all, it means to give precedence of data over function. Did items rather than functionality become the center of development activities. This also allows for enforcing the very important concept of information hiding, which is the encapsulation and segregation of data behind well-defined and ideally stable interfaces. In order to be able to hide the design and also implementation decisions. And note that the terms encapsulation and information hiding are often used interchangeably, although some people prefer to think of information hiding as being the principle and encapsulation being the technique to achieve information hiding. The key concept though, no matter which term you use, is really to gather, to seclude this data behind sort of a wall and give access to the data only through interfaces that you, the developer define. And why is that important? Oh, for many reasons, and one of the main ones is that it makes code more maintainable. Because the rest of the code, the rest of the system doesn't have to be concerned on how the implementation details or the design are defined. And therefore, any change that happens behind this wall doesn't concern the rest of the system. And, doesn't affect the rest of the system, as long as you keep your interfaces consistent. Another advantage of focusing on objects and encapsulating the information into cohesive entities is that it allows the reuse of object definitions by incremental refinement. Which is what we normally call inheritance. And inheritance is definitely a fundamental concept in object orientation. For example, we can define a car as a refinement of the vehicle. That there's some additional characteristics with respect to a generic vehicle. And then we can use the car wherever a vehicle can be used, which is what we call polymorphism. And we'll continue this discussion for a very long time. Because there's so many things that could be discussed when we talk about object orientation, its characteristics and its advantages. But in the interest of time, let's for now just stop here. And start talking about two key concepts in object orientation. Let's start with objects. An object is a computing unit organized around a collection of state or instance variables that define the state of the object. In addition, each object has associated with it a set operations or methods that operate on such state. So what that means is that operations and methods read and write instance variables. And in traditional object orientation, we say that operations are invoked by sending a message to the appropriate object, which is what we call normally a method implication. So now that we define what an object is, state variables, or attributes, and operations or methods, let's see what a class is. A class is basically a template. A blueprint, if you wish, from which new objects, which is what we call instances of the class can be created. And notice that the fact of having a blueprint for objects that allows us to create as many objects as we want can further reuse, and also contribute to make the code more readable, understandable, and therefore ultimately more maintainable. So in more general terms, why do we want to use object orientation? The first reason is that object orientation can help reduce long-term maintenance costs by limiting the effects of changes. As we saw, the effect of using encapsulation and information hiding makes it easier to modify parts of the system without affecting the rest of the system. Object orientation can also improve the developing process by favoring code and design reuse. In general, object orientation helps enforcing good design principles. Principles such as the ones that we saw in encapuslation, information hiding, high cohesion, low coupling and we will discuss these aspects more extensively in the next mini course which is centered around design concepts. Now let's make sure that we understand the benefits of object orientation through a quiz. Imagine that acme corporation decided to use an objetory entered approach in its software development process. If this is the case what benefits can they expect to receive from this decision. And here I'm listing some possible benefits. Increased reuse because of the modular cooling style. Increased maintainability because the system design can accommodate changes more easily. Increased speed because object oriented systems tend to run faster. And increased understandability because the design models real world entities. So, I would like, as usual, for you to mark all that apply. So, now let's see which ones of these benefits can actually be expected. Definitely, the first one. The modular coding style typical of object-oriented approaches can, and normally does, increase reuse. Similarly, because of the characteristics of typical object-oriented systems, these systems are normally easier to change. Because they're more modular, they're more cohesive, they're more decoupled. And therefore, all of this contributes to increase the maintainability of the resulting systems. So we're going to mark this benefit as well. There's really nothing about object-oriented systems. That make them run faster and, therefore, this is not a benefit that we can expect from the use of an object-oriented approach. Conversely, the last one is an expected benefit because normally, the fact of designing real-world entities, which is one of the characteristics of the object oriented approaches, does increase understandability. It's easier to understand the system because we can relate. To the system because we can recognize in the systems, real world entities that we are used to see and that we understand. The use of object orientation and object oriented concepts led to what we call OOAD, object oriented analysis and design. OOAD is a software engineering approach whose main characteristics is to model a software system as a group of interacting objects, and we'll see what that means. In particular, in this lesson we will specifically focus on the first part of this, object oriented analysis, which is a requirements analysis technique that concentrates on modeling real world objects. And as I usually like to do, I would like to start by providing some historical perspective on object oriented analysis to better understand how we went from a function-centric world to a data-centric world. And several people contributed to this shift in perspective, but I'd like to mention a few that were particularly influential. Starting from James Rumbaugh, which in the 90s developed an integrated approach to object oriented modelling with three main aspects. A data aspect, so the modelling was based on using an extended version of entity relationship diagrams to describe classes and inheritance. So that's what was called the object model. And the second aspect has to do with functions. So data flow diagrams were used to represent the functional aspects of the system, where each function was then becoming a method in a class. So this is what is called the functional model. So object model and functional model. The third model in Rumbaugh's methodology had to do with control. So it was representing the dynamic aspects of a system. And it uses state machines, which we'll cover in more detail, to represent how a system would evolve going from one state to the other based on what happened to the system. These three models together represented what was called the Object Modeling Technique, or OMT. And OMT combined with contributions from several people, and in particular Jacobson and Booch, evolved into what we call the Unified Modeling Language, which is UML, which is probably the modeling language that most of you are familiar with. UML extends OMT by providing more diagrams and a broader view of a system from multiple perspectives. So, in the second part of the lesson, we will cover some of these diagrams in details, but before that, I'd like to talk a little bit more about object oriented analysis, and how we can perform it. So let's look at the object-oriented analysis in a little more detail. As I said earlier, traditional analysis and design techniques were functionally oriented. What that means is that they concentrated on the functions to be performed, whereas the data upon which the functions operated were secondary to the functions themselves. Conversely, object oriented analysis, is primarily concerned that with a data objects, so we went from a functional oriented view to a data oriented view, what that means is that during the analysis phase, we define a system first in terms of the data types and their relationships, and the functions or methods are defined only later and associated with specific objects which are sets of data. So let's see how we can perform object orientated analysis in practice, so the basic idea is to be focused on the objects of the real world. So to go from a real world objects to a set of requirements. And we can describe this as a four-step process. The first step is to obtain or prepare a textual description of the problem to be solved. So obviously, we need to start from some description of the system that we need to build. And this is a very practical oriented approach, so that the next thing we do is that we take the description and we underline nouns. In this description. And the nouns that we underline will become classes in my analysis. We then look at adjectives in the document. We underline those, and we use that information to identify the attributes of the classes that we've previously identified. At this point we focus on active verbs in the description, and the analysis of the active verbs will give us the operations that we'll need to define for our classes. So, again, underline nouns, and those will become the classes in my system. Then, objectives. And, those will be the attributes of the classes. And, finally, active verbs that will become the operations of my classes. And of course, this is a high level view to take this with a grain of salt. But we will see that it's a very good pragmatic approach to identifying requirements, starting from a description of the system to be built. Now let's see how object oriented analysis might work in practice by considering the following requirement for an online shopping website. The requirement says that users can add more than one item on sale at a time to a shopping cart. So, looking at this requirement I would like you to tell me which of the following elements should be modeled as classes. And the elements are: item, sale, shopping cart, time and user. So mark all that apply. Looking at the requirements, item is definitely a relevant element for my system, so it is appropriate to model item as a class. Sale, on the other hand, is more of a characteristic of an item, an attribute of an item, rather than a class in itself. So, we're not going to mark this one. Shopping cart sounds, as well, as an important element for my system. Time can be an important system in some contexts, but in this case we're measuring time just because more than one item at a time can be added to the shopping cart. So, time really doesn't have any reason for being modeled as a class. And finally, user also seems to also have an important role to play in the system, and therefore we will model user as a class as well. This concludes the first part of this lesson in which we discussed the basic object-oriented concepts. And, we started to look at how to perform object-oriented analysis. In the second part of the lesson, I will introduce UML, and we will perform the object-oriented analysis steps that we just saw using an example. A course management system so before getting to the second part, let me introduce the example. As we mentioned before, the first step is to start from a textual description of the system the we need to analyze and that we need to build. So that's exactly what I'm going to do. I'm just going to read through this description then we'll reuse throughout the rest of the lesson. The registration manager sets up the curriculum for a semester using a scheduling algorithm and the registration manager here is the registrar. So we will refer to the registration manager both as registration manager and as registrar in the rest of the lesson. One course may have multiple course offerings, which is pretty standard. Each course offering has a number, location, and a time associated with it. Students select four primary courses and two alternative courses by submitting a registration form. Students might use the course management system to add or drop courses for a period of time after registration. Professors use the system to receive their course offering rosters. Finally, users of the registration system are assigned passwords which are used for login validation. So, as you can see, this is a kind of a high-level description of a standard course management system. So, if you ever used a course management system, you'll recognize some of the functionality described here. Let's now start talking about UML, the Unified Modeling Language. And we are going to start by looking at UML structural diagrams. This are the diagrams that represent static characteristics of the system that we need to model. This is in contrast with dynamic models which instead behaviors of the system that we need to model. And we will also discuss dynamic models, later on in the lesson. We're going to discuss several kinds of diagrams, starting from the class diagram, which is a fundamental one in UML. The class diagram represents a static, structural view of the system, and it describes the classes and their structure, and the relationships among classes in the system. So how do we represent a class in a class diagram? Class is represented as a rectangle with three parts. The first part is the class name. Classes should be named using the vocabulary of the domain, so we should pick names that make sense. And the normal naming standard requires that the classes are singular nouns starting with a capital letter. The second part of the class are the attributes of the class, where the set of attribute for the class, we find the state for the class. And, we can list an attribute simply by name, or we can provide the additional information. For example, we might define the title of the attribute, and we might also define the initial. Value for the attribute. Finally, the third part of the class consist of the operations of the class. And normally, the operations of the class are represented by name, with a list of arguments. That the operation will take as input, and with a result type. So the type of the result produced by the operation. Something else you can notice in this representation is the fact that there is a minus before these attributes and a plus before this operation. This indicates what is called the visibility of these class members. So the minus indicates that the attributes are private to the class. So only instances of this class, roughly speaking, can access these attributes. And notice that this is what allows to enforce the information hiding principle, because clients of the class cannot see what's inside this box, what are these attributes. The plus conversely indicates that this is a public operation. So something that is visible outside the class. And, in fact, normally, this is what we use to define the interface for my class. So we encapsulate the state of the class and we make it accessible to the extent that we want and that is needed through a set of public operations. Last thing I want to note is the use of these ellipses that we can utilize if we want to indicate that there are more attributes for example, or more operations. But we just don't want to list them now. Okay now that we know what a class is, and how it is represented, let's start our analysis of our course management system. By identifying the relevant classes in the system, we need to bring back the description of our system. And what we want to do, is that we want to go through the description and underline the relevant nouns in the description. And here I encourage you to stop the video and to do the exercise of underlying such nouns yourself before listening to my explanation into how I do it. For example in this case I might want to underlined the registration manager which is a noun and probably a relevant one. The scheduling algorithm, also seems like a relevant concept, so is the course. The course offerings, again, course offerings over here. Definitely, the students seem to be a relevant noun and so is probably the registration form and the professors. Okay, so, at this point, I identified seven possible classes for my system. So, what I'm going to do is simply to create classes for each one of these nouns. So my initial class diagram looks exactly like this, with the seven classes where for each class, I picked the name that is representative of the domain. So, in this case, it's pretty straightforward. The registration form is called registration form, the student is called student and so on and so forth. But you can already see how this analysis method is starting from a description of the real world and it's just identifying objects or classes in the real world and transforming them into entities in my analysis document. Now that we identify the classes in my system, let's see how we can identify the attributes for these classes. First of all let's recall what attributes are. Attributes represent the structure of a class the individual data items that compose the state of the class. So how do we identify these attributes? Attributes may be found in one of three ways. By examining class definitions, by studying the requirements, and by applying domain knowledge. And notice that I want to stress, that this is always a very important aspect. No matter what kind of system you're developing. Domain knowledge tends to be fairly important to identify things Which might not be provided in the descriptions of the system that tend to be incomplete. And that you can derive by the fact that you are familiar with the domain. So always keep in mind the domain knowledge is important for analysis, for design, for requirements gathering and so on. So now let's go back to our description of the system. As I said, I will bring you back for each step of our analysis. And in this case, we're going to focus on course offering. And we can say that the course offering, according to the description, has a number, a location, and a time. So this is a pretty clear indication that these are important aspects of the course offering. So they probably should become attributes of the course offering class. So now if we report here that sentence, and once more, we underline the information that we underlined in the description. We can clearly see how this can be mapped into the definition of the class. So our class course offering after this step the analysis will have 3 attributes: number, location, and time. And as you can see here, I'm not specifying the type or any other additional information. So in this first step I'm just interested in having a first draft. of the class diagram, that I can then refine in the next iterations of my analysis. At this point we have our classes, our attributes, what we're missing is the operations for the class. Let me remind you that operations represent the behavior of a class, and that they may be found by examining interactions among entities in the description of my system. So once more, let's bring back our description, and let's in this case focus on this specific item. That says that the students may use the system to add courses. So this is clearly indicating an action that the students should be able to perform. But notice that this doesn't mean that this is an operation that should be provided by the student's class. It rather means that there should be, somewhere in the system, the possibility of performing this operation. So let's see what this means for our example. This might mean, for example, if we focus on the RegistrationManager, so that there should be an operation in the RegistrationManager that allows me to add a student to a course. And this, in turn, means that both Course and CourseOffering should provide a way to add a student. And therefore, I add this corresponding operation to the RegistrationManager, to the Course, and to the CourseOffering. So after doing that we will continue and populate in a similar way, the other classes in the system. So let me recap. Now we saw how to identify classes. How to identify members of the classes, and particular attributes, and operations. There is one thing that we're missing, a very important aspect of the class diagram which is the relationships between these classes. And that's exactly what we're going to look at next, relationships in the class diagram, how they're represented and what they mean. First of all relationships as the name says, describe interactions between classes or between objects in my system. And we will describe three main types of relationships. The first one is called a Dependency relationship. And we can express that as X uses Y and we represent it with a dashed directed line. So when we have such a line between two classes that means that the first class uses the second one. And we're going to provide an example of a dependency in a minute. The second type of relationship is an association that can also be an aggregation. We'll see what the distinction is. But basically, what this means is that we can express that as a X has a y. So x contains a y. And if it is in association, we indicate it with a solid undirected line. If it's an aggregation, we indicate it in the same way, but with a diamond at one of the ends. Finally, the third type of relationship is what is called Generalization. And this can be expressed as x is a y. So this is the relationship that expresses inheritance. Specialization between two classes. It's represented with a solid directed line with a large open arrow head at the end. Going from the more specialized class to the less specialized class. So going from the subclass to the super class. So now let's look at each relationship in more detail using our example, our course management system. Before doing that, though, now that we discuss the different kinds of relationships among classes in the class diagram. I would like to ask you to look at a list of relationships that I'm providing here and mark the relationships that you think actually hold for the classes in the system that we are modeling. So here I have a list of possible relationships for each relationship. I'm first defining what the relationship is and then what kind of relationship that is, for example, for the first one I'm saying that the registration manager uses the scheduling algorithm, which is a dependency relationship. And similarly for the other ones. So like for you to go back to the example, look at the classes that we defined, think about the requirements, and identify which ones of this relationships you think hold in the system. So, I'm going to start by marking the relationships that actually hold in the system. Which are these ones. And then what I'm going to do, I'm going to explain this answers. Not here but in the next part of this lesson. By looking at the different relationships in the context of our example. Which will make the explanation much clearer. So let's start with the dependency example. A dependency, as we said, expresses the relationship between a supplier and a client that relies on it. There is a dependency because changes in the supplier can affect the client. Here in this example I am showing that a dependency example involving the registration manager and the scheduling algorithm. As you can see the, the dependency is indicated with a dashed line pointing from the client to the supplier. And here it's pretty clear why the RegistrationManager is dependent on the Scheduling Algorithm. It's because the RegistrationManager uses this Scheduling Algorithm. And therefore, if the Scheduling Algorithm changes, the RegistrationManager might be affected by that change. Another less obvious example is the dependency between the Registration Manager and the Student. In this case, because the Registration Manager gets a Student object as a parameter here there is a dependency between the two. Again, if the Student class were to change the Registration Manager might be affected because it's relying on the Student for it's behavior. The next example of relationship we're going to look at is the association relationship. This is a relationship in which objects of one class are connected to objects of another. And it's called an has a relationship. So it means that objects of one class have objects of another class. So let's see what that means. Let's do it by considering two classes in our example system. The student class and the course offering class. In this case, there is an association between the student and the course offering, because the student is registering for the course offering. So, in a sense, the course offering has students. Contains students, to indicate this fact we add a solid line between the student class and the course offering. And the fact that having a solid line doesn't really tell us much about the nature of the relationship, so to clarify such nature we can use what we call adornments that we can apply to associations we can add to associations to clarify their meaning. In particular we can add a label to an association and the label describes the nature of the relationship. In this case, for example, it clarifies that the student registers for CourseOffering. We can also add a triangle to further clarify the direction of the relationship. So in this case, the triangle will indicate that it's the student That registers for the course offering, and not the other way around. Another important adornment or limitation that we can put on an association, is multiplicity. Multiplicity defines the number of instances of one class that are related to one instance of the other class. We can define multiplicity at either end of the relationship. In this case, for instance, we can say that if we look at the student, the student can register for two or more course offerings. Whereas, if we look at the course offering, we can say that each course offering can have or can enroll between 1 and 50 students. So as you can see by adding a label, a direction, and multiplicity, we make it much clearer what the relationship is and what it means and what are its characteristics. As we saw when we introduced relationships, there is a different kind of association, kind of a specialized one, which we call aggregation. So here we're going to look at an example of an aggregation. So first of all what is an aggregation? An aggregation is a relationship between 2 classes in which 1 represents a larger class like a whole which consists of smaller classes which are the parts of this whole. So lets look at an example in the context of our system. Let's consider a Course and the CourseOffering. And in this case, we can see that the Course consists of multiple CourseOfferings. So in a sense, a course is a whole and the course offerings are the parts of this whole. So this a perfect case in which we will use an aggregation to express this relationship. So we will add a solid line with a diamond on the side of the whole class to indicate that the course consists of multiple course offerings. And as we did for associations even though we are not going to do it for this specific example, we could also in this case add multiplicity information on the aggregation to indicate how many classes of the two types are involved in the relationships. The third type of relationship that we saw, is Generalization. Generalization is a relationship, between a general class, which we normally call super-class and the more specific class, a class the refines the super-class and that we normally call sub-class. It's also known as a kind of or is a relationship because we can say that the subclass is a super class and it's expressed with a solid line with a big arrow head at the end. So let's see an example of that. In this case I'm going to indicate. Two of this kind of relationships. The first one involving the RegistrationUser and a student. And the second one, a RegistrationUser and the professor. So, basically what we're showing here is a typical case in which the registration user is a more general concept then the Student and the Professor. So both the student and the professor are RegistrationUsers. So there is a relationship, the Professor is a registration user and the Student is a RegistrationUser. And therefore we can indicate that using the generalization relationship in our class diagram. The last thing that I want to mention about class diagrams is some creation tips. So something I know based on my experience and the experience of others, I can recommend to do when creating a class diagram. So the first tip is to understand the problem. So take the time to look at the description of the system that you have to build, to make sure that you understand the domain. That you understand what you are supposed to build. Because that is going to save you time later. It's going to help you identify from the beginning, a more relevant set of entities in the description of the system. This one might seem trivial but is very important to choose good class names. Why? Because class names communicate the intent of the class, and clarify what the class refers to. So having a good class name allows you, makes it easier, to create the mapping between the real-world object and the entities in your model. And of course, it also makes it easier to understand the system, after the system is built. Third tip, concentrate on the what. So here, in the class diagram, we're just representing the structure of the system. We're representing what is in the system. What are the entities? What are the characteristics of the entities? We are not focusing at all, on how things are done. So, be careful. Dont think about the how, just think about the what. Proceed in an itinerary way. So, start with a simple diagram and refine it. There is no need to identify, right away, all of the details of the system you need to build. It is much easier to look at the description, identify an initial rough class diagram and then refine it, because in this way, you'll also gather more understanding of the system as you build it, and you'll most likely end up with a better product at the end. And if you proceed in this way, then make sure to refine until you feel the class diagram is complete, until you feel that you represent the system that you're supposed to build. So your final goal should be to have a class diagram that is complete. So it represents all of the relevant entities in the system and their characteristics, and it's correct so it represents them in the right way There's two more structural diagrams that I want to mention before we move to the behavioral ones. The first one's the component diagram. A component diagram is a static view of components in a system and of their relationships. More precisely, a node in a component diagram represents a component where a component consists of one or more classes with a well-defined interface. Edges conversely indicate relationships between the components. You can read this relationship as component A uses services of component B. And notice that the component diagrams can be used to represent an architecture, which is a topic that we will cover extensively in the next mini-course. So let's illustrate this with an example. So, what I'm representing here is a component diagram for our example system, the course management system. And as you can see, it's slightly more complex than the other diagrams that we saw. But there's really no need to go through all the steps and all the details. Important thing is to point out some key aspects of this diagram. So the first one is that these rectangular nodes are the nodes in the system, so are my components. For example, student is a component, schedule is a component, and so on. And as far as edges are concerned, I'm representing two kinds of edges. The first kind of dashed edges which were part of the original uml definition and indicate use. So an edge, for example, between this compnent and this compnent indicated that the seminar management uses the facilities component. More recently, in UML two, a richer representation was introduced, which is the one that I'm also showing here. So if we look at this part of the diagram, you can see this sort of you now, lollipop socket representation. And in this case, what this represents, is that a lollipop indicates a provided interface. So an interface that is provided by the component. So, for example, this security component provides encryption capabilities. The socket, conversely, indicates a required interface. So, for example, in this case, it's saying that the facilities component is needing access control capabilities, which, by the way, is provided by the security component. So in a sense these sockets and lollipop indicate interfaces between a provider of some of functionality, and the client of that functionality and you can look at those as basically APIs. So sets of methods that provide a given functionality. To give you another example, if we look at the persistence components the persistence component provides, unsurprisingly, persistent services. And those persistent services are required by several other components in the system. And in turn, the persistent components relies on the University database component to provide such services. So, there's the University DB components provide these sort of low-level database services that are used by the persistence component To in turn provided services. Last thing I want to note is that components or relationships can be annotated, so, for example if we look at the seminar management and the student administration components you can see that they are annotated here to indicate that they are user inferfaces. So that's all I wanted to say on the component diagrams, but again the key piece of information is that they represent components in the system where a component consists of one or more classes indicate the interfaces that these components provide or require. and describe the interactions between these components. The last UML structural diagram I want to discuss is the deployment diagram. The deployment diagram provides a static deployment view of a system, and unlike previous diagram, it is about the physical allocation of components to computational units. Think, for example, of a client-server system in which you'll have to define which components will go on the server and which component will go on the client. For deployment diagram, the nodes correspond to computation unit; for example, a specific device. And the edges indicate communication between these units. Also in this case, I'm going to illustrate deployment diagrams using an example for our course management system. And also in this case, I'm going to use a slightly more complex diagram than usual. But I don't want you to look at all the individual details. Instead, I would like to focus on a few main aspects. So, if you look at this diagram, there are three things that you should clearly see. First, you should see how the system involves four nodes, a web server, an application server, a DB server, and a mainframe. Second, you should see which components are deployed on which nodes. For example, the student component is deployed on the application server. And finally, you should see how the nodes communicate with one another. For example, you can see that the application server and the university database communicate using a JDBC protocol. We now discuss UML's behavioral diagrams. Those diagrams that have to do with the behavior, the dynamic aspects of the system, rather than the static ones. The first behavioral diagram I want to discuss is a very fundamental one, the Use Case Diagram. So, let's start by seeing what a Use Case is. A Use Case represents two main things. First the sequence of interactions of outside entities which is what we normally call actors with the system that we're modelling and the second thing is the system actions that yield an observable result of values to the actors. And basically these two things, and nothing else that the outside view of the system. So the view of the system in which we look at the interaction between this system, and the outside world. If you want to parallel, think about designing a house. Considering how you would use the house. And you might have seen use cases called with different names. So for example, they're also called scenarios, scripts or user stories, but in the context of UML, we'll call the use cases. Now let's look at the basic notation for a use case, which is fairly simple. We have a use case which is represented by an oval, with a name, which is the name of the use case. We have an actor, which is represented by this icon and is normally identified by a role name. And finally we have an edge which is a solid line that connects actors and use cases and indicates that an actor is the actor of a given use case. And just for completeness let me note there are some additional notational elements but now for simplicity we'll just use these ones. Now, let's look at use cases in a little more detail. And start by defining exactly what an actor is. An actor represents an entity, which can be a human or a device, that plays a role within my system, so that interacts with my system. It's some entity from the outside world, with respect to my system, that interacts with my system. It is important to clarify that an entity can play more than one role. For example, you might have somebody working in a bank that can be both an employee of the bank, or a customer of the bank, depending on how it interacts with the banking system. And, obviously, more than one entity can play the same role. Using the same example, we can have both an employee of the bank and just a regular customer, playing the role of the customer. So again, it all depends on what the entity does, how the entity interacts with the system, what kind of functionality of the system the entity uses. And finally, actors may appear in more than one use case. So it's fairly normal for the same actor to interact with the system in different ways. And therefore, to appear in more than one use case. Just think about the use cases in scenarios of usage. If the same actor can interact with the system in different ways, that actor will appear in multiple use cases. Now let's go back to the description of our course management system, and see how we can identify actors in the system. And as we did for the class diagram before, I encourage you to stop the video and try to identify the actors in the system yourself, before I do it. If we look at the description, we can see that, for example, the Registration Manager is clearly an actor for the system. Students are actors for the system. Professors are actors for the system. And notice that we're not doing the same thing that we were doing when identifying classes. Here we're identifying entities that are from the outside world, and have an active role in interacting with my system. Again, Registration Manager, that we will just call registrar for simplicity, students, and professors. So once we have identified the actors for our example, we can simply draw them, using the notation that we just introduced. So we have the registrar, and notice how for every actor we clarify the role that the actor plays. We have the professor, and we have the student. So here, these are the three actors that we identified for our system. Now if you want to build a use case diagram for our example, we have to add the use cases for these different actors. For instance, if we consider the student and the registrar, they might be both interacting with the maintain schedule system, the registrar by updating the schedule and the students by using the schedule that has been updated by the registrar. As you can see, different roles for the same use case. Another possible use case is the request course roster. And on this case, the professor will request the roster by interacting with the system. We will continue in this way by further refining and by further adding use cases as we identify possible interactions of the actors that we identified with our system. So in summary, what the use case diagram is doing is to show the actors and their interaction with the system through a set of use cases. At this point, it should be pretty clear that sure, this gives us an idea of the interactions but we don't really know how these interactions occur. So there is one piece that is missing, which is how do we document the use cases, how do we describe what happens and what these interactions actually are. And that's exactly what we're going to discuss now, how to document use cases. So the behavior of a use case can be specified by describing its flow of events. And it is important to note that the flow of events should be described from an actor's point of view, so from the point of view of the external entity that is interacting with my system. So the description should detail what the system must provide to the actor when the use case is executed. In particular, it should describe how the use case starts and ends. It should describe the normal flow of events, what is the normal interaction. And in addition to the normal flow of events, it should also describe possibly alternative flows of events. For example, in the case in which there are multiple ways of accomplishing one action or performing a task. And finally, it should also describe exceptional flow of events. For example, assume that you are describing a use case for withdrawing money from an ATM. You may want to describe the normal flow of events in which I insert my card, I provide my pin and so on. An alternative one in which, in addition to withdrawing cash, maybe I'll also first ask for some information about how much money is in my account. And finally, I may want to also describe an exceptional flow of events in which I get my pin wrong and, therefore, I'm not able to perform the operation. One more thing I want to mention, when we talk about documenting use cases, is the fact that the description of this information can be provided in two main ways, in an informal way or in a formal way. In the case of an informal description, we could just have a textual description of the flow of events in natural language. In the case of a formal or structured description, we may use, for example, pre and post conditions, pseudo code to indicate the steps. We could also use the sequence diagrams, which is something that we will see in a minute. So, as we did for the previous cases, now let's look at an example. Let's consider a specific use case, maintain curriculum, in which we have the registrar that interacts with the system to do operations for maintaining the curriculum. And, let's define the flow of events for this use case. To do this, we're going to go back, as usual, to the description of our system. So this is the one that you already saw several times, but I would like for you to do something. I would like for you to stop the video, look back at the spec, the one that is shown here. And write on your own, what you think is the informal flow of events that categorizes the interaction of the registration manager with the system. And it is very important that you keep in mind something as you're doing that. You should keep in mind that, as it always happens, when extracting requirements from an initial specification, in particular an informal one like this one, a high-level one, you will have to be able to read between the lines and fill in the blanks. That is, you have to provide the information for the missing parts using your domain knowledge. So try to do that exercise. Read the description, and see how you will define the steps, the flow of events for the maintain curriculum use case. If you're done with that, now let's see the possible informal paragraph that describes that flow of events. And the one I'm providing now is just one possibility, based on my experience and based on the way I see this possible flow of events. So yours might look different, of course. In my case, because the description was measuring the fact that every user has got a log-in and a password. I decided that the first step should be that the registrar logs onto the system and enters his or her password. As it normally happens with password protected systems, if the password is valid, the registrar will get into the system. And the system at this point should ask to specify a semester for which the maintain curriculum activity has to be performed. The registrar will therefor enter the desired semester. The interface I envisioned is one in which the system will prompt the registrar to select the desired activity. Add, delete, review, or quit. And if the registrar selects add, the system will allow the registrar to add a course to the course list for the selected semester. Similarly, if the registrar selects delete, the system will let the registrar delete a course from the course list for the selected semester. And again similarly, if the registrar selects review, the system will simply display the course information in the course list for the selected semester. And finally, if the registrar selects quit, the system will simply exit and our use case will end. So, again, there's the main knowledge that goes into this. But this is a good example of how you can refine the initial description to identify these scenarios that then you will use to specify and implement your system. And as we discussed a few minutes ago, we provided the information that is requested for the use case, how the use case starts, by logging into the system. And how it ends, by selecting quit. We described the normal flow of events. And, of course, these flow of events could be improved, because right now even though we described how the use case starts and ends, we just described one possible flow of events. But there's many alternative ways we could provide and we do not describe any exception of flow of events. So this could be the starting point for multiple use cases, or for use cases just richer and contains more information, more steps to a richer flow. But you should have gotten the idea of what a use case should be. As I mentioned when we started talking about use cases, use cases are fundamental in UML, and in general. So, now I would like to discuss why they're so important and what are the different roles that use cases can play. The first obvious one is for requirements elicitation. It is much easier to describe what the system should do if we think about the system in terms of scenarios of usage. Rather than trying to describe the whole functionality of the system at once. So, use cases can help performing a more effective requirement solicitation. As we will see when we discuss the unified software process, they can be used for architectural analysis. So, use cases are the starting point for the analysis of the architecture of the system that can help identify the main blocks of the system. And therefore, can help define in the initial architecture. And as I said, we'll talk more extensively about that. They can be used for user prioritization. For example, imagine to have multiple actors in the system, and you might want to prioritize some of them. For instance, using again the banking system example, we might want to first provide functionality for the administrators of the bank. And only in a second time provide functionality for the customers, because of course, if the administrator cannot perform any operation, the customers cannot use the system. So again, they can be used to prioritize the users. Or the actors, and therefore define which part of the system should be built in which order. Related to this point, they can be used for planning. If I know which pieces of functionality I need to build and in which order, I can better plan the development of my system. And again, we will see how this becomes very important in many different software life cycles. So, both in the unified software process, for instance, but also in more agile development processes. And finally, use cases can be used for testing. If I have an early description of what the system should do, what are the main pieces of functionality of the system. And I know how the interaction between the actors and the system is, I can easily define test cases, even before writing the code, even before defining my system. And when we discuss testing, we will get back to this and talk a little more extensively about this, as well. Now, as we did for the class diagram, let's look at some creation tips for use case diagrams. The first tip is that when you define a use case, use a name that communicates purpose. It should be clear what the use case refers to by just looking at the name of the use case. Second tip is to define one atomic behavior per use case. So try not to put more than one specific scenario into a use case. Why? Because these will make the use cases easier to understand and better suited for their roles that we just discussed to define test cases, to do planning, to define an architecture and so on and so forth. Define the flow of events clearly. So again, do it from the perspective of an outsider. An outsider should be able to read the description of the flow of events and understand exactly how the system works or how that specific piece of functionality works. As we suggested for the class diagram, provide only essential details. So there is no need to provide all the nitty gritty details about the use case, just provide enough details so that the use case is complete and understandable. And finally, even though we didn't cover that, there is a way to factor common behaviors and factor variants when defining use cases. So I will encourage you to look at how to do that. For example, by looking at the additional UML documentation and to try to factor out this common behaviors and variants. Typical example would be a system that requires login, like the one that we just discussed, will probably require an initial login step for each use case. It is possible that instead of describing the same steps, or same sub-steps, for each use case, you can factor that out. And create a use case that you should then include in your own use cases. As I said, we didn't cover this for simplicity, but feel free to further read about UML and to see how you can actually factor out behaviors and factor variants. Which can be very useful in practice. Now that we have seen use cases, the next behavioral diagram I want to discuss is the sequence diagram. So what is a sequence diagram? It is an interaction diagram that emphasizes how objects communicate and the time ordering of the messages between objects. To illustrate sequence diagrams in a practical way, and hopefully in a clear way, I will introduce them by creating an actual sequence diagram using an example taken from our course management system. So let's see what are the steps needed to build such a sequence diagram. The first thing we want to do is place the objects that participate in the interaction at the top of the diagram along the x-axis, and you also want to place them in a specific way. You want to place objects that initiate the interaction at the left, and place increasingly more subordinate objects to the right. So basically, this should reflect the way the events will flow for the majority of the interactions in the system. Next thing you want to do is to add what is called the object lifeline. It's a vertical line that shows the existence of objects over a period of time. And it's normally represented with a dashed line, except for the outermost object for which it is a solid line. Now that you have your object lifeline you can start placing messages that these objects send and receive. You want to put them along the y-axis in order of increasing time, from top to bottom. And you can also put a number on the message to further clarify the sequence. So in this case what we're showing is that the student will send the fill in info message to the registration form. And this is the first message in the sequence diagram, the first interaction. Then the student might submit the form and this is also a message that goes to the registration form. At this point, when the submission takes place, the registration form will send the message, so it will invoke some functionality in the registration manager. Specifically you will invoke the add course functionality and pass Joe, the name of the student and Math 101 which is the specific course for which Joe is registering. Then the registration manager will ask the Math 101 course whether it accepts registrations, and the interaction will continue. So that Math 101 will actually check for a specific offering, if everything goes fine, you will receive an ack, you'll send back the act to the registration manager and so on. Until at the end, Joe will be registered for Math 101. As you can see, it is very easy to see how the interaction occurs between these different objects at run time, dynamically. So what the behavior of the system is for this specific scenario. So the last notational element that I want to add to this diagram is the focus of control. Which is this tall thin rectangle, that shows the period of time that an object is performing an action, either directly or indirectly. So if we look at the registration form, this is telling us that the registration form is active for this amount of time. And the same thing we can do for the registration manager, the Math 101 course offering, and the Math 101 specific section. The very last diagram that I want to discuss is the state transition diagram. The state transition diagram is defined for each relevant class in the system and basically shows the possible live history of a given class or object. So what does it mean to describe the life history? It means that it describes the possible states of the class as defined by the values of the class attributes. And it also describes the events that cause a transition from one state to another. Finally, it describes the actions that result from a state change. So if you put all of this together you can see how this can represent the whole history of the class, from its creation to its destruction. So let me discuss the transition diagram in more detail, and also provide information about the notation used to represent them. We have states, that are represented by ovals with a name. And we have transitions marked by the event that triggers the transition. What transitions indicate is the passage from one state to another state as the consequence of some external stimuli. Notice that not all events will cause a state transition. So for example, some events might be consumed within a single state. And we'll get to that in a second. But in most cases, an event will trigger some state transition. Events may also produce actions and they may also have attributes which are analogous to parameters in a method call. And Boolean conditions that guard the state transition that is prevented from happening in the case the conditions are not satisfied. States may also be associated with activities and actions. Specifically, activities are operations performed by an object when it is in a given state and that takes time to complete. Actions, conversely, just like the actions corresponding to an event are instantaneous operations that are performed by an object. And can be triggered on entry. So, when the object reaches a given state, when the object exits that state, and also when a specific event occurs. And in this case, this notation is basically a shortcut for any event that will cause a state transition that will bring the object back into the same state. Since we have several actions and activities, it is probably worthwhile clarifyinig the ordering of such actions and activities. So the way in which these actions and activities occur is, first of all, we have the actions on the incoming transition, so this is performed first. Then if there is an entry action that is the next action that would be performed, then we have activity and event actions as appropriate. And finally exit actions. As usual were going to illustrate these kind of diagrams by using an example. In particular we are going to describe the state transition diagram for part of our example, for part of our course management system. And we're going to focus on the course offering class. When the class is created, it enters the initialization state, in which the activity performed is to initialize the course. At this point, a simple case is the case in which the class is cancelled, so there is a cancelled event. And if that happens, the class is simply cancelled. So it gets into this final state, which is the state cancelled. And the activity in this case is to notify the registered students. Obviously if this is the flow there will be no registered students. However something else can happen when we are in this initial state. So what can happen is that a student can register, so in this case the add student event is triggered. And the corresponding action is to set the count, in this case it would be the count of students for the course offering, to one. And there will be a change of state and the course offering will get into this open state. And the action that will be performed on entry will be to register the student. At this point more students may register. So other student events might occur and notice that we have a curve here that tells us this event will trigger this transition only if the count is less than 10. So we're assuming that we're not going to have more than 10 students just for lack of a better number in our course offering. So if that happens, if the count is less than ten so then the count is incremented so the increment count action takes place. And the system goes back into the open state, and the new student is registered. Now here we have an interesting transition, because there's no event triggering the transition, but simply the fact that the count is equal to 10. So you can imagine this as being a transition that is always enabled so can always be triggered, but will be guarded. By the fact that the count has to be exactly ten. So basically this transition will take place only when enough students are added, such we get to count them. Being incremented and being equal to ten and then the transition will occur. And we will get into the closed state, in which the class is no longer open because there are enough students registered. And at this point, what will happen is that the course will be finalized. So there will be this activity which performs some operation that is needed to finalize the course. Another possibility is that when we are in the open state, the course is cancelled. And if the course is cancelled, in this case, we go again to the cancel state. But here, the activity of notifying registered students makes more sense. Because we will have at least one registered student in this state, and therefore we'll need to notify such student that the course offering has been cancelled. Finally, is it also possible also to cancel a course after it has been closed? And in this case again, the same thing will happen. The class will reach the cancelled state and all the students, in this case ten students, that are registered for the course will be notified that the course has been cancelled. So, if we look at this state transition diagram, you can see that it's pretty easy to see what the evolution of objects of this class can be. How they can go from their initial state to various final states depending on what are the external events that reach the system. I'd like to conclude this lesson with a couple of quizzes. Just to recap what we saw. And, make sure that everybody's on the same page. In the first quiz, I want to know whether an UML state transition diagram specifies a set of objects that work together to perform some action. The events that cause an object to move from one state to another. The set of components in a system, or the effects of a state change. And as usual, you should mark all that apply. A UML state transition diagram does not specify a set of object that work together to perform some action, because this is what a sequence diagram does instead. Conversely, the second one is correct. As we said, a state transition diagram describes the events that cause a transition from one state to another. Again, a UML state transition diagram does not specify the set of components in a system, because this is what a component diagram does, not a state transition diagram. As for the last one, this is correct, because, as we also discussed, a state transition diagram describes the actions that result from a state change, that is, the effects of such state change. And for the last quiz, I want to know which of the following diagrams are UML Structural Diagrams? Use case diagram, class diagram, deployment diagram and sequence diagram. Again, mark all that apply. And in this case, the correct answer is that class diagram and deployment diagrams are the only two UML structural diagrams among these four. So the answer to this quiz was probably pretty obvious, but I wanted to use it also to stress, once more, the difference between structural and behavioral diagrams. Structural diagrams provide the static picture of the system being modeled, presented from different perspective. For example, from the perspective of the class diagram and of the deployment diagram. Behavioral diagrams, on the other hand, provide information on the dynamic behavior of the system being modeled, also presented from different perspective. So it's important to be able to distinguish between these two types of diagrams. This concludes this lesson on object orientation and UML. But I encourage you to look at the references provided in the class notes, in case you want to know more about object orientation, object oriented analysis, and UML. Hello and welcome to the second part of our software engineering course. In the previous mini-course, we discussed some basic principles behind software engineering. We provided an overview of several software process models and we introduced some important tools that can help developers increase their productivity. In this mini-course, we will focus on requirement and prototyping. More precisely, we will discuss in depth requirements engineering activities. We will also discuss techniques to perform a system analysis and design in an object-oriented fashion. So, let's start the first lesson of this mini-course, which is about the use of engineering techniques to understand and specify the purpose of a software system. As we did for other lessons, before starting this lesson on requirements engineering, I want to ask a world expert on this topic a few questions. I'm here with Jane Cleland-Huang, a professor at the DePaul University. And Jane is a world expert in the area of requirements engineering, which is the theme of this lesson. So I'm talking to Jane who is currently in Chicago and I want to. Ask her a few questions about requirements engineering. So hi Jane how are you? Fine. Thank you Alex. And thank you so much for agreeing to be interviewed for our course, I'm sure the students will really benefit from this. And let me start with the first question which is what are software requirements? That's an interesting question. And software requirements basically provide us a description of what a system has to do. So, typically they describe the functionality of the features. That the system has to deliver in order to satisfy its stakeholders. And we usually talk about the requirement specification in terms of what the system's going to do. And we describe it sometimes formally in terms of set of shall statements, that the system shall do this or shall do that. Or we can use various templates to specify both textural requirements. But requirements can also be represented informally in, in the form of user stories, or use cases, or more formally in the form of state transition diagrams and even in kind of formal specifications. Especially for critical parts of safety critical systems. And another should discuss what the requirements are. What is the requirements engineering? So, that's also an interesting question because if you notice it's it's engineering and I'm sure in the other parts of the software engineering process that you're discussing in your course. Parts such as testing or coding. They don't have the word engineering there and I think one of the reasons requirements engineering has that term is because it covers a number of different activities. So it includes things such as working with stakeholders to elicit or to proactively discover what their requirements of the system are. Analyzing those requirements so that we understand the tradeoffs. So you might have different stakeholders that care about different things, and it might not be possible to deliver all of those things, so we have to analyze the feasibility of the requirements, explore the tradeoffs, emerge conflicts. And then of course the specification part, which we talked about a little bit already, and the validation, so did we in fact get the requirements right? Did we build a system that actually matches our, our requirements. And then on into the requirements management process. And the requirements management process. Kind of like goes through things like change management. So what if customer or stakeholders need the system to change? How do we manage changing requirements? And I think this is one of the reasons that we've coined the term engineering because that it's, has to be a systematic process which extends across. The whole of this is life cycle. And I guess my last question here is so now that we heard about software requirements and about software requirements engineering, why is requirements engineering so important? So what happens if we don't do it right? Well, I'm sure that, you know, many people have probably read the kind of report like Spanish report, and other reports of failed project, and things like that, and are aware that one of the major reasons for projects failing is because we didn't get the requirements right in the first place. So if we don't understand the requirements then we're simply going to build the wrong system. Getting requirements right includes all sorts of things such as finding the right group of stakeholders so we don't exclude major groups of stakeholders. Understanding the requirements correctly. There will be many, many different examples of projects that have failed. For example, in America the healthcare.gov failure, and while we cannot put the blame squarely in the area of requirements, because obviously the project was challenged for a number of different reasons. But clearly it underperformed in many respects related to security, performance, and reliability and these are all parts of the requirements process. Things that should have been discovered and the system should have been built in order to meet those requirements, getting the requirements right in the first place. Puts us, a project on the right foot. And so that gives us a much better chance of delivering to the customer what they need. And designing a solution that really meets those requirements. So, it's a critical part of the overall software engineering success. Okay. So that's critical. I mean, we better get our requirements right. Yeah. That's, that's the message. Yeah. Okay. Well, thank you so much Jane, for taking the time off your busy schedule to speak with us. I'm sure. The students really appreciate this, and we'll talk to you soon. Bye Alex, thank you. Bye, Jane, bye bye. Jane gave us an interesting perspective on requirements engineering and its importance. Let's now start our lesson with a general definition of requirements engineering. Basically, and roughly speaking, requirements engineering, which is also called in short, RE, is the process of establishing the services that the customer requires from the software system. In addition to that, requirements engineering also has to do with the constraints under which the system operates and is developed. Requirements engineering is a very important activity for several reasons. In particular, as we also saw in earlier lessons, many errors are made in requirement specifications. So many errors are made because we don't do requirements engineering in the right way. And many of these errors are not being detected early. But they could be if we were to do RE in the right way. And, unfortunately, not detecting these errors can dramatically increase software costs. So that's the reason why requirements engineering is important, and why it is important to do it in the right way. The final result of the requirements engineering process is a software requirements specification that we also called SRS. We will discuss SRS later in more details and also when we talk about the projects for the course. For now, it is enough to say that the software requirements specification and the requirements engineering, in general, should focus on what the proposed system is intended to do, and not on the how it will do it. In fact, how the system will do what it is required to do is something that we will discuss when we talk about design of a system in later phases. In our initial definition of requirements engineering, we talked about software systems. But what do we really mean when we use the term software? Software is an abstract description of a set of computations that becomes concrete, and therefore useful, only when we run the software on some hardware, and that, in the context of some human activity that it can support. So what does that mean exactly? What that means is that when we say software, what we really mean is a software intensive system. That is, the combination of 3 things, the software, the hardware on which the software runs, and the context in which the software is used. Just to illustrate, let me show you this through a picture. What I'm showing here is a customer, a user, that is using, is accessing, an ATM machine. And this action involves several things. There is the software that drives the logic of the ATM machine. There is the hardware on which the software runs. And there is the context In which the software is used. And in this case, the context is the bank. And only by considering these 3 things together can we really understand the functionality that is represented here. So the bottom line here is that we usually take hardware and context for granted in this equation. But they actually need to be explicitly considered when building a system. Otherwise, we might forget this is all the functionality, and ultimately of the requirements. And we might end up with the wrong system. So, let's see how this affects the concept of software quality. Another way to express what we just said is to say that the software runs on some hardware and is developed for a purpose that is related to human activities. And given this perspective, we can define what we mean by software quality in this light. Software quality is not just a function of the software. So, the software itself does not define the quality of the overall system. Rather, software quality is a function of both the software and its purpose. Where purpose has to do with the way in which the software will be used. So a software system can be of low quality not only because it does not work well. So, for example, not only because it crashes. Of course, that's an issue. But just as importantly, a software can also be of low quality because it does not fulfill its purpose, and this happens quite often. It is unfortunately not rare for the software producers to have an inadequate understanding, or even a complete misunderstanding of the purpose of the software, of what the users want to do and will do with it. Turning these around, we can therefore define the quality of software in terms of fitness for purpose. The more the software fulfills its purpose, the more the software is on target, the higher is its quality. And identifying the purpose of the software, so hitting this target, is exactly the goal of requirements engineering. And it is the reason why requirements engineering is such a fundamental activity in the context of software engineering. And identifying the purpose of a softer system means defining the requirements for the system. And if you have ever done anything like that, for example, we did it for the first project in the previous mini course, you will know that it is an extremely hard task. Identifying the purpose of the software and defining its requirements is very, very hard. Why is it so hard? First of all, the purpose of most systems is inherently, extremely complex, so this has to do with the sheer complexity of the purpose of the requirements. Just think of how complex is the functionality provided by most systems. Second, it is hard, very hard to extract from humans this purpose and make it explicit. So, paraphrasing a famous quote from the late Steve Jobs, often people don't know what they want until you show it to them. It's hard to figure out what people really want. Third, requirements often change over time. Customers change their mind. Designing and building a system raises new requirements. So for many reasons requirements tend not to be stable, tend to evolve. And that, of course, makes it harder to collect them. Finally, for any realistic system, there are many stakeholders and they often have conflicting goals and requirements. And it can be very hard to reconcile the possibly conflicting requirements that might emerge in these cases. So for all these reasons, it is very, very difficult to perform requirements engineering in an effective way. These issues and difficulties can result in requirements that show various problems. Two particularly relevant and common problems are completeness and pertinence. Or better, the lack of completeness and pertinence. Completeness refers to the fact that it is often extremely difficult to identify all of the requirements. That is it is very difficult to have a complete picture of the purpose of the software. So what happens is that incomplete requirements are collected and the software is missing functionality that is important for the user. Pertinence conversely has to do with the relevance of the requirements. To avoid completeness problems developers often end up collecting a lot of irrelevant when not conflicting requirements. In these cases what can happen is that the software could either end up being bloated that is it might contain a needed functionality. The functionality represented by these extra requirements or it might even be impossible to build the software due to the conflicting additional requirements. And to make things even worse collecting all of these requirements sometimes doesn't even solve the completeness issue. So you might end up with a set of requirements that is not only incomplete but it also contains extra information that can be harmful to the system. So again the bottom line is that gathering an adequate, accurate, complete, and pertinent set of requirements that identify the purpose of a software system is an arduous task. Now that we talked about completeness and pertinence, let's consider an information system for a gym. I'm going to give you a list of possible requirements and I want you to mark in that list all the requirements that you believe are pertinent. So let me read the list. Members of the gym shall be able to access their training programs. The system shall be able to read member cards. The system shall be able to store members' commute time. Personal trainers shall be able to add clients. And the list of members shall be stored as a linked list. So the first requirement is definitely pertinent. Members of the gym shall be able to access their training programs. It's pretty normal for members of the gym to have a training program. And therefore, the system should allow them to access them. Similarly for the second one. The system shall be able to read member cards. Normally when you get into a gym if you have a member card, you'll have to either show it to somebody, or nowadays swipe it, and so the system should be able to recognize the customer given the card. The third requirement is probably not pertinent, because I cannot think of any meaningful case in which the system should know what is the members' commute time. The fourth requirement, personal trainers shall be able to add clients, is also probably pertinent. Assuming that we have personal trainers in the gym, and they should be able to get clients, to work with the clients of the gym, and therefore, they should be able to add them as their clients to the system. And finally, the last requirement, the list of members shall be stores as a linked list. This is really something about the how, more than the what. And therefore, for what we say before is probably not a pertinent requirement, so we're not going to mark this one. So now that we saw which of these requirements are pertinent and which ones are not, can we consider the above list of requirements of the list of these requirements marked here as a complete list of requirements for a gym? And you have two options, yes or no. And the answer is clearly no. Obviously, there are many missing requirements here. For example, requirements about registration for the customers, requirements about fitness program creation, membership types, and so on. Plus, we are also missing all of the nonfunctional requirements, which we haven't seen yet, but that we will discuss in a bit. In the previous quiz, we saw that some of the requirements that they put in the list were not pertinent. They were irrelevant. So let me ask you. Why can irrelevant requirements be harmful? Why is that a problem to have irrelevant requirements? So here, I'm giving you four possible answers. And I'd like for you to mark all that apply. Can irrelevant requirements be harmful because they may lead to missing functionality in the final product. Because they can introduce inconsistency. Because they can waste the project resources. Or because they may introduce bugs in the software system. And as I said, more than one can be a valid reason. So let's go through the list. Definitely irrelevant requirements cannot lead to missing functionality in the final product, because irrelevant requirements actually refer to unneeded functionality in the system. So functionality that is put in the requirements, but it is not really needed. So we're not going to mark this one. Indeed, irrelevant requirements can introduce inconsistencies. So they could be irrelevant requirements that not only are not pertinent but they are inconsistent with some of the pertinent requirements. They can also waste project resources, because if we spend time designing and then implementing the parts of the system that we refer to these irrelevant requirements, of course, we are wasting project resources. And I will not mark the last one because there's really no correlation between any irrelevant requirements and bugs in the software system. Of course, by implementing the part of the system that refers to an irrelevant requirement you might introduce a bug. But that's not necessarily the case, and there really no correlation between the two. But we collect requirements all the time, right? Every time we build a software system. So how do people cope with these difficulties? What are the best practices? In practice, developers or analysts usually identify a whole bunch of requirements. Sometimes the easiest and most obvious ones. They bring those to the stakeholders, and the stakeholders have to read the requirements, understand them, and if they agree, sign off on them. And the problem is that in general, these requirements documents are difficult to read. They are long, they are often unstructured. They typically contain a lot of information. And in general, they are not exactly a pleasant read. So what happens is that often the stakeholders are short on time, overwhelmed by the amount of information they're given and so they give in to the pressure and sign. And this is a bit of a dramatization clearly but it's clear that what we are looking at is not an ideal scenario. Clearly this is not the way to identify the real purpose of a software system to collect good requirements. And since one of the major causes for project failure is the inadequacy of requirements, we should really avoid this kind of scenario. We should follow a rigorous and effective requirements engineering process instead. But how can we do that? How can we identify the purpose of the system and collect good requirements? To answer that question, let me give you another definition of requirements engineering. And this one is a classical one, one that summarizes what we discussed so far, and then we can use as some sort of reference. And it is a little long. Definitely longer than the one that we saw at the beginning. But it's an important one and it contains a lot of very relevant points. So, we're going to go through it and highlight these points. So the definition says, that the requirements engineering is a set of activities concerned with identifying and communicating the purpose of a software intensive system and the context in which it will be used. And this is exactly what we said at the beginning. But something we can highlight in here, is the fact that we're talking about a set of activities. So, what that means is that requirements engineering is not just a phase or a stage. It also says that it's about identifying and communicating. And what that is telling us is that communication is as important as the analysis. So, it's important to be able to communicate these requirements not only to collect them. And we will discuss many reasons why that is the case. It explicitly talks about purpose. So that allows me to stress, once more, that quality means fitness-for-purpose. We cannot say anything about quality unless we understand the purpose. And the last thing I want to point out in this first part of the definition is the use of the term context. This is also something else that we mentioned at the beginning, that designers, analysts, need to know how and where the system will be used. Without this information, you cannot really understand what the system should do and you cannot really build the system. So now, let's continue and read the second part of the definition that says, hence. Requirements engineering acts as the bridge between the real-world needs of users, customers, and other constituencies affected by a software system and the capabilities and opportunities afforded by software-intensive technologies. This is a long sentence, but also here, we can point out a few interesting and relevant points. Let me start by highlighting two parts. Real-world needs, and the capabilities, and opportunities. So, what are these two parts telling us? They are telling us that requirements are partly about what is needed, the real-world needs of all these stakeholders. But they're also partly about what is possible, what we can actually build. We need to compromise between these two things. And, finally, I would like to point out this term constituencies, which indicates that we need to identify all of the stakeholders, not just the customer and the users, so anybody who is affected by a software system. It is very important to consider all of these actors. Otherwise, again, we'll be missing requirements, we'll be missing part of the purpose of the system and we will build a suboptimal system. So at this point, we have talked quite a bit about requirements engineering, but we haven't really discussed what are requirements exactly. So what is a requirement? To define that I am going to use this diagram which is a classical one. So you might have seen it before. So, discussing this diagram allows me to point out a few interesting things about requirements and define them in a better way. At a high level this diagram contains two main parts, the domain of the machine, which is the hardware, operating system, libraries and so on, on which the software will run. And the domain of the application, which is a world in which the software will operate. And the machine domain is characterized by computers, which are the hardware devices, and programs, which is the software that runs on these devices. The application domain, conversely, is characterized by domain properties, which are things that are true of the world anyways, whether I'm building my system or not, and requirements, which are things in the world we would like to achieve by delivering the system that we are building. Basically, to put it in a different way, the former, the domain properties, represents the assumptions that we make on the domain. And the latter, the requirements, are the actual requirements that we aim to collect. So we have something here, right, at the intersection of this application domain and this machine domain. And what is that? And this is what we normally call the specification, which is a description, often a formal description, of what the system that we are building should do to meet the requirements. So this is a bridge between these two domains. And as the graphical depiction shows, the specification is written in terms of shared phenomena. Things that are observable in both the machine domain and the application domain. And just to make things a little more concrete, I want to give you a couple of examples of what these phenomena, these shared phenomena, are. And we can think about two main kinds of phenomena. The first one are events in the real world that the machine can directly sense. For example, a button being pushed or a sensor being activated. These are events that happen here, but that the machine can detect. So they're events that can be used to define the specification. And the second type of phenomena are actions in the real world that the machine can directly cause. For example, an image appearing on a screen or a device being turned on and off. Again, this is something that the machine can make happen and then can have manifestation in the real world. And again this is therefore something on which the specification can predicate, something that we can describe in our specification. And this is sort of a philosophical discussion, but even if you don't care about the philosophical discussion, the one take away point that I would like for you to get from this discussion is the fact that when writing a specification you have to be aware of the fact that you're talking about shared phenomena. Events in the real world that the machine can sense and actions in the real world that the machine can cause. So this is what the specification is about, a bridge between these two worlds that define what the system should do to satisfy the requirements. Since we just discussed application domain, machine domain, and the specificiation, let's make sure that these concepts are well understood. To do that, I'm going to use a quiz, and I would like for you to refer to the figure that we just discussed that I'm also reproducing here on a small scale on the right. And then referring to the figure, you should indicate for each of the items that I'm going to show you here shortly. Whether they belong to the machine domain. In this case, we're going to put a one next to the icon. The application domain, in this case you should put two. Or their intersection, and in this case you should put three. So this is the lists of items. So let me read it. An algorithm sorts a list of books in alphabetical order by the first author's name. A notification of the arrival of a message appears on a smart watch. An employee wants to organize a meeting with a set of colleagues. And finally, a user clicks a link on a web page. So again, put 1, 2, or 3 here in these lots, depending on whether you think that these items belong to the machine domain, the application domain, or their intersection. So, their specification, here. So let's look at each one of these items individually, starting from the first one. And here this item has to do with how the machine stores the information and how the corresponding algorithm is written. But it has no bearing in the real world. That is, in the application domain. Therefore this. Definitely belongs to the machine domain, and we're going to put a one here. What about a notification of the arrival of a message on a smart watch? This is an event that is generated within the machine, but it has an effect, an observable effect, in this case, in the real world as well. Therefore, we're going to mark this as three. So this is an event. This is something that belongs to the intersection between the application domain and the machine domain. So it's something that could be in the specification. Now what about an employee that wants to organize a meeting with a set of colleagues? This is an event that belongs to the application domain because it is a fact that it's true that exists. In the real world independently from the existence of a machine. Therefore, we're going to mark this as two. Finally, the event of a user clicking on a link on a web page is an event that occurs in the real world but that has an effect also within the machine and, therefore, we're going to mark this as three, something that happens at the intersection. between these two domains, and once more, something that could be in a specification. Among the requirement that we can collect from the application domain, we need to distinguish between two main types. And you've probably heard about these ones. Functional requirments and non-functional requiremnts. Functional requiremetns have to do with the functionality of the system, with what the system does with the computation. For example the elevator shall take people to the floor they select. That's a functional requirement, that has to do with the functionality of the system. Or for a very simple one, the system has to output the square root of the number past as an input. So these kind of requirements have in general well defined satisfaction criteria. So, for example, if for the latter one that we mentioned it is pretty clear how to check whether the output is actually the square root of the number passed in input. Non-functional requirements, conversely, refer to a system's non-functional properties, systems qualities. Such as security, accuracy, performance, cost. Or, you know, usability, adaptability, interoperability, reusability and so on. So, all these qualities the don't necessarily have to do with the functionality. And, unlike functional requirements, non functional requirements Do not always have clear satisfaction criteria. For example, if we say that the elevator must be fast, that's a non-functional requrement. Right? It has to do with the speed of the elevator, which is a quality of the elevator. But, it, it's not clear how such a requirement could be satisfied. How could we tell whether the elevator is fast or not. So, what we need to do in these cases Is that we need to refine these requirements so that they become verifiable. For the example that I just mentioned, for instance, we might say that the elevator must reach the requested floor in less than 30 seconds from the moment when the floor button is pushed. This is still a non-functional requirment, but is a verifiable one. Another important distinction, when talking about requirements, is that between user and system requirements. So, let's start with defining user requirements. Those are requirements that are written for the customers and they're often in natural language and they don't contain technical details. And the reason for that is that their purpose is to allow customers, stakeholders, to check that the system will do what they intended. So it's a way for the analyst, the developers, to communicate with the customers, with the stakeholders. System requirements, on the other hand, are written for developers. Contain detailed functional and non functional requirements. Which we just discussed, and which are clearly and more rigourously specified than the user requirements. And the reason for this difference is that the purpose of the system requirements is to tell developers what to build. They must contain enough details so the developers can take them and use them to design and then develop a system. Just to give you a concrete example, here I'm showing you a user requirement that just says that the software must provide a means of representing and accessing external files created by other tools, and the corresponding system requirement. And as you can see, even if we don't read the whole requirements. The former is an informal and high level description of a piece of functionality, whereas the latter describes the same functionality but in a much more extensive and rigorous way. As I said, this is something that the developers can use to design and then build a system whereas this is something that can be used to communicate. With the stakeholders, with a non-technical audience. And we need to define both because they serve different purposes. After all these talking about requirements, let's have a small quiz, I want to ask you which of the following requirements are non-functional requirements? And here I'm listing the requirements, the first one says at the BowlingAlley program keeps track of the score during a game, the second one is that the WordCount program should be able to process large files. The third one is that the Login program for a website. Should be secure, and finally the last one says that the vending machine program should take coins as an input from the user. So, I want you to mark all the ones that are non-functional requirements, that don't refer to the functionality of the system. So, the first requirement clearly refers to some specific functionality of the Bowling Alley system, because it talks about what the system has to do from a functional standpoint. So, it's definitely not a non-functional requirement. On the other hand, the fact that the Word Count system should be able to process large files, is telling us something not about the functionality of the system, but rather about its qualities. The fact that it has to be scalable, that it has to be efficient and so we can consider this to be a non-functional requirement. Similarly, the fact that the Login program for a website should be secure is definitely telling us something about the quality of the system that has little to do with its functionality. And so this is also a non-functional requirement. Finally, the fact that the Vending Machine program should take coins as an input from the user is telling us something about the functionality of the program and therefore, is a functional requirement. Now that we know what the requirements are and their main types, let's discuss where requirements come from and there are many possible sources for requirements so I'm going to list here the main ones. The first one are clearly stakeholders, anybody who is effected by the system and its functionality. Customers, users, and so on. The second typical social requirement is the application domain. For example, the fact that my software is running within a bank, or within a school. Why is the application domain a social requirement? Well, because there are constraints that are characteristics of the application domain that will affect the functionality of the system. For a simple example, just think about regulations. So banking regulations and school regulations in these cases. Those are things that might affect the functionality of my system and, therefore, that may become part of my requirements. And, finally, documentation can be an additional source of requirements. For example, notes, papers, manuals, books. So everything that refers to the functionality of the system that we're going to build. Unfortunately, extracting requirements from these sources is not a straightforward task, as there are many issues involved with the requirements elicitation. One first problem is the thin spread of domain knowledge. Knowledge is rarely available in an explicit form, that is, it is almost never written down. Moreover, knowledge is often distributed across many sources. For example, in the graphical depiction here, to find out that this is the purpose of the project. The developer, the analyist, needs to talk to a lot of different people. And, to make things even worse. There are often conflicts between the knowledge gathered from different sources. A second issue is the fact that the knowledge is often tacit. What is also called the say, do problem. In the example shown here. For instance. We have a customer that is describing to the analyst. The way in which he accomplishes a task. So it performs these three steps and reaches the goal. Whereas in practice, the actual way in which this task accomplished is by going through a larger number of steps to get to the same goal. So the point here is that, even if the knowledge were more concentrated, so not as spread as in this example. People simply find it hard to describe knowledge that they regularly use. So it is hard to make this knowledge explicit, to pass this knowledge to someone else. Yet another problem is limited observability. Identifying requirements through observation is often difficult as the problem owners might be too busy to perform the task that we need to observe. Or they might be doing a lot of other things together with the task that we need to observe, so that becomes confusing. That introduces noise. Moreover, even when this is not the case, the presence of an observer might change their problem. It is very typical for human subjects to improve or modify an aspect of their behavior, which is being experimentally measured in response to the fact that they know that they're being studied. You know that somebody's studying you and you change the way in which you behave. A typical issue. Finally, the information that we collect might be biased. For several reasons. People might not feel free to tell you what you need to know. Or, people might not want to tell you what you need to know. For example, in all the common cases in which the outcome might effect them, people might provide you a different picture from the real one. In order to influence you. So, they might have a hidden agenda, and mislead you, either consciously or unconsciously. So, all these issues add to the complexity of collecting requirements, of identifying the purpose of a system. To cover the intrinsic problem of eliciting requirements, many different techniques have been proposed. So here I list some of most traditional techniques for requirement elicitation and as I present those, please keep in mind that these techniques can be used separately or combined. A first technique is called background reading. And, this technique involves collecting information by reading existing documents such as company reports, organizational charts, policy manuals, job descriptions, documentation of existing systems and so on. And, this technique is especially appropriate when one Is not familiar with your organization for which the requirements are being collected. So you want to get some background before interviewing actual people. And one of the main imitations of these kinds of approaches is that written documents might be out of sync and they often are out of sync with reality. Tend to be long winded. It may contain many irrelevant details, so you may have to look at a lot of materials to extract enough information. The hard data and samples techniques consist in deciding which hard data we want to collect and choosing the sample of the population for which to collect such data and hard data includes facts and figures such as forms, invoices, financial information, survey results, marketing data, and so on. And the sampling of this data can be done in different ways. For example, the typical ways to do random selection. Interviews are another typical approach for requirement solicitation, and this is the approach that we use for the first project in this course, for instance. Interviews can be structured in which case there is an agenda of fairly open questions or they can be open ended in which case there is no preset agenda and the interview is more of a conversation. On the positive side, interviews can collect a rich set of information because they allow for uncovering opinions as well as hard facts. Moreover, they can probe in depth through follow up questions. On the more negative side, interviewing requires special skills that are difficult to master and require experience. And it is not enough to collect a lot of information. If this information is hard to analyze or even irrelevant, it might become useless. So you need to know how to conduct an interview in order to take advantage of these techniques. Surveys can also be extremely useful for gathering new requirements because they can quickly collect information from a large number of people. Moreover, they can be administered remotely. For example, by email, through the web. On the other hand, surveys tend to severely constrain the information that the user can provide and might miss opportunities to collect unforeseen, relevant information. Finally, meetings are generally used for summarization of findings and collection of feedback, so as to confirm or refute what has been learned. So the only additional thing I want to mention about meetings is the fact that it is fundamental that have clearly stated objectives and are planned carefully. This is something that should be quite obvious, but doesn't always happen in practice. So just for completeness, I want to mention some other techniques besides the traditional ones that we just saw that can be used for requirements solicitation. And these other techniques can be divided in three main groups. There are collaborative techniques that were created to support incremental development of complex systems with large diverse user populations. An example of such techniques which is widely used and you might know is brainstorming. There are also social approaches and these are approaches, techniques that exploit the social sciences to better collect information from the stakeholders and the environment. And among those I just want to mention ethnographic techniques which are based on the idea of collecting information on the participants by observing them in their original environment. Finally cognitive techniques, leverage cognitive science approaches to discover expert knowledge for example they can be used to understand the problem solving methods. And in case you're interested in finding out more about this and other techniques, I'm providing some references in the notes for the lesson. Once we collected the required knowledge on the requirements for the system that we're developing, we need to model it in a structured and clear way, so that it can be analyzed and refined. And there are really tons of ways to do that, depending on your focus and objectives. More specifically, when modeling requirements you need to decide what you want to model and how you want to model it. So let's look at these two aspects independently. What you decide to model depends on where your emphasis is. That is on which aspects of the requirements you want to focus. For example if your emphasis is on the characteristics of the enterprise of the company that you are analyzing you may want to model goals and objectives of the company, or its organizational structure, its task and dependencies and so on. Conversely, if your focus is on information and behaviors, you might want to concentrate on aspects such as the structure of information, various behavioral views some of which we will see in the next lesson, or maybe time or sequencing requirements. Finally, if you're mostly interested in the quality aspects of your system, you will focus on the various non-functional properties of the software that are relevant in the context considered. For example reliability, robustness, security, and so on. You will just pick the ones that are relevant for your context. And as we said, there's a second dimension. After you have decided what to model in your system, you have to decide how you want to model it. So I want to show here some options for modeling enterprises, information, and quality aspects. And as you can see here for each type of information there are many possible models that we can use to represent it. And all these models have advantages and disadvantages, different levels of formality and different focus. Something else that I want to point out about these models is the fact that these models are often orthogonal to one another, especially if we consider models in different categories. So what that means is that they're complimentary rather than mutually exclusive. Different models can be used to provide views of the requirements from different perspectives, and we will not see most of these models in this course, but I wanted to list them anyways to give you an idea of how many there are and how vast is this area. As far as we are concerned in the course and for the projects we will express requirements using one of two main ways. Using natural language, that is informal specifications and using UML diagrams, which is graphical models. And we will introduce UML and the most important diagrams in the next lesson. And the only other type of models that I want to mentions explicitly are goal models because they're extremely popular. So the main idea with goal models is it start with the main goal of the system and then keep refining it by decomposing it in sub-goals. So it's kind of a very natural way of progressing. And you continue this refinement until you get to goals that can be operationalized, and represent the basic units of functionality of the system. Now we are at the point in which we have collected and modeled our requirements. So the next thing that we can do is to analyze the requirements to identify possible problems, and specifically there are three types of analysis that we can perform. The first type of analysis is verification. So in this case we're talking about the requirements verification. And in verification developers will study the requirements to check whether they're correct, whether they accurately reflect the customer needs as perceived by the developer. Developers can also check the completeness of the requirements, check whether there are any missing pieces in the requirements as we discussed earlier. They can check whether the requirements are pertinent, or contain irrelevant information, like the one shown here. And they can also check whether they're consistent, unambiguous, testable and so on, so all those properties that should be satisfied for the requirements. A second type of analysis that is typically performed on requirements is validation. And the goal of validation is to assess whether the collected requirements define the system that the stakeholders really want. So the focus here is on the stakeholders. And in some cases, stakeholders can check the requirements directly if the requirements are expressed in a notation that they understand. Or they might check them by discussing them with the developers. Another possibility is that stakeholders asses the requirements by interacting with a prototype of the system, in case the requirements engineering process that is being used involves early prototyping. And finally surveys, testing, and other techniques can also be used to validate requirements. A final type of analysis that we can perform on requirements is risk analysis. And risk analysis aims to identify and analyze the main risks involved with the development of the system being considered. And if some requirements are deemed to be too risky, like in this case, this might result in changes in the requirements model to eliminate or address those risks. And note that all these analysis activities can be performed in many different ways depending on the modeling languages chosen to represent the requirements and on the context. Why collecting, modeling, and analyzing requirements? We might realize that the resources available for the project are not enough to satisfy all of them. For example, there's not enough time, not enough money, not enough manpower. And therefore, there are some requirements that we won't be able to satisfy. In these cases, we must prioritize our requirements, by classifying them in one of three classes. The first class is mandatory requirements, and these are the requirements we must satisfy. Then there are the nice to have requirements that are the ones that we will satisfy if resources allow. And finally, there are the superfluous requirements, and those are the requirements that we're going to keep around, but that we're going to postpone. For example, we might decide to satisfy them in the next release. Now that we talked about requirements prioritization, let's try to see how this might work in practice. Imagine that you have collected the folowing set of five requirements for an ATM system, but only have resources to satisfy two of them. Possibly three. I would like for you to look at this list and suitablely prioritize the requirements by marking them as mandatory, in this case you're going to put an M in the space. Nice to have, in this case you're going to put an N. Or superfluous, in this case you're going to put an S. This is the set of requirements, the first one says that the system shall check the PIN of the ATM card before allowing the customer to perform an operation. The second says that the system shall perform an additional biometric verification of the customer identity for example a check of the customer's finger prints before it allows the customer to perform an operation. Then we have that the system shall allow customers to withdraw cash using an ATM card. The system shall allow customer to deposit money using an ATM card. And the system shall allow customers to change the pin of their ATM card. So again, mark those as mandatory, nice to have, or superfluous considering the fact that you can satisfy only two, possibly three of them. Looking at the requirements, and knowing that we have only two that we can satisfy for sure, it makes sense to first mark as mandatory the ability to withdraw cash, which is the most typical use of an ATM machine. We are therefore going to mark this requirement with an M, for mandatory. It also makes sense to mark as mandatory the fact that the ATM system checks the PIN of the card being used by the customer, as that's the typical level of security that the customer would expect, therefore we're going to mark as mandatory also the first requirement here. And of course we could also perform biometric verification, but based on our knowledge of the domain, it seems like that should be an additional verification, rather than the main and only verification for the system. We will therefore mark it superfluous. That is something that we can postpone until a later release, the second requirement. Finally, another typical operation that customers perform at ATM machines is depositing. Whereas changing an ATM card's PIN is not such a common operation. We'll therefore mark it nice to have this fourth requirement and as superfluous, the last one. So at the end, what we have is that we have two mandatory requirements which are the two that we can satisfy for sure. One, nice to have the requirement, which is the possible third requirement which we might have time to satisfy. And the other two that are marked as superfluous, as something that we might do later, for example in a subsequent release. And of course there is something subjective in these answers. But again, based on our knowledge on our understanding of the domain, these are the one that makes more sense for an ATM system as we know it. Let's now put together all that we have discussed and see how a requirements engineering process actually works. So, first of all, we saw that requirements engineering consists of three main steps. Elicitation of the requirements, in which we extract requirements from various sources. Modeling in which we represent the requirements using one or more notations or formal reasons and analysis, in which we identify possible issues with our requirements and there is actually a 4th step that we kind of mention but not explicitly. And this is the negotiation that can happen between the stakeholders and the developers, during which requirements are discussed and modified until an agreement is reached. So if you want to think of this as a process, so as a sequence of steps, we can see that we start from elicitation. So we start by eliciting an initial setup requirements. We negotiate and refine this set, then we model the resulting requirements. And finally, we analyze such requirements. However, the process doesn't really stop here. Why? Well, because as a result of the analysis, we might have to perform further elicitation. And so this process is not really a sequential one, but rather an iterative process. So, in practice, we continue to iterate over these four steps gathering a better and better understanding of the requirements at every iteration until we are happy with the settle requirement that we gather and stop the process. Before I conclude this lesson, I want to say a few additional things about the Software Requirement Specification document or the SRS. And I want to do that because this is a very important document and some of the projects actually require you to produce one. So why is the Requirement Specification such an important document? That's because a Software Requirement Specification document is an important fundamental way to communicate. Requirements to others. For example they represent a common ground between analysts and stakeholders. Note however, that different projects might require different software requirement specifications so you need to know your context. For example, the SRS document that you have to create for a small project performed by a few developers can in most cases. Be a concise and informal one. Conversely the software requirement specification for a multi-year project, involving a number of developers can be a fairly complex and extensive document. So again you have to be aware of your context and build your software requirement specification accordingly. In order to have a common format for the SRS document, IEEE defined a standard that divides the document in predefined sections. And in the context of this course, we will use a simplified version of the IEEE SRS format that includes three main sections. An introduction, which discusses the purpose, context, and objectives of the project. A user requirements definition, which contains the user requirements. And the system requirements specification, which includes both functional and non-functional requirements. And we provide more information about this format when we discuss the projects. So to conclude the lesson, I want to point out and in some cases recap a few important characteristics that requirements should have. First of all, requirements should be simple. Not compound. Each requirement should express one specific piece of functionality that the system should provide. Requirements should be testable. We mentioned this before, but I want to stress it because it is a very important point. Untestable requirements such as the system should be fast, are useless. Requirements should be organized. Related requirements should be grouped, more abstract requirements should contain more detailed requirements, and priorities should be clearly indicated when present. Finally, requirements should be numbered, so that they can be traced. For example, numbered requirements will allow you to trace them to design. Implementation and testing elements and items, which is something that you might have to do for one of the projects. And that we will discuss in more detail in a later class. Hello, and welcome to the third part of our software engineering course. In this mini-course, we will discuss software design. We will also introduce the Unified Software Process. And we will work on a more complex project, in which we will develop a distributed software system that involves multiple different platforms. In our first lesson of this mini-course, in particular, we will talk about software architecture. A software engineering discipline whose goal is to lay the foundation on which to build successful and long lasting software systems. So let's begin. Because the topic of today's lecture is software architecture, it seemed appropriate to start the lesson by asking a world expert on this topic, what is software architecture, and why it is important. To do that, let's fly to California, and more precisely, Los Angeles, and visit Professor Nenad Medvidovic. Hi, I'm here visiting Professor Nenad Medvidovic from the University of Southern California. And Neno is one of the world experts in software architecture, actually one of the authors of, of a recent book which is, sort of the book in software architecture. What I would like to discuss with Neno is the concept of software architecture and its importance. Because people are very familiar with the idea and the cost of the design. And software architecture is something is very related to that, but is less known. So I would like for Nenad to elaborate on that, and tell us why is it important to focus also on this specific you know, architectural aspects of the software. When you build any software system, even a simple, relatively simple one. You're going to go through, a process of making many, many design decisions. Hundreds or thousands sometimes even tens of thousands of design decisions, so any program that you write at some point you get to deciding what the interface of a particular method is going to be. Are you're going to put in a parameter that is an integer or a float. When you're writing your routine about some sort you have to decide whether you're going to use a static data structure or a dynamic data structure. All these things are design decisions. Many of them however, will typically, in the average case, not really impact the success of your system and the long term well-being of your system. But typically the things that software engineers start struggling with are other design decisions. Design decisions that are the equivalent of load baring walls in a building Mm hm These are the things that, if you don't get them right, or if you compromise them, will in fact potentially impact how the system operates. They might result in failures of different kinds. They may result in a system that is not easily maintainable and so forth. In a sense, to make a long story short, architectural design decisions are really the principle design decisions in your system. These are the things that are very important. All of the other design decisions you could sort of tag with being important, but they're sort of below this very important or highly important threshold. So if you need to change a low level design decision, sometimes it's kind of easy to do. It might change a little structure. Is it the case that you know, being the architecture is sort of the pillar of the software, is that going to be much more difficult to change an architectural decision? And architecture is deemed to be you know, say if you start with the wrong architecture the software is going to, you know, necessarily be unsuccessful. Or you can also do something that is better. A system could be successful and very poorly architected. Just like a building or an airplane or a car, any other engineering artifact could be successful but poorly architected. So success we can separated from this, but the, the point that you make in asking this question is an important one. The non-architectural design decisions, should be on the average, there are exceptions and we need to acknowledge that there is no one size fits all type of solution for anything in software engineering really. But on the average, the non-architectural design decisions, should be much easier to make. So the scale of the consequences of making such a change. Really can vary from very minor, highly localized to very important and sometimes, even system wide. To conclude, I just like to ask you about some concept that is we here about a lot. Which is architectural erosion. Since, we're talking about in with fine architecture and software evolution. So, what is, exactly, an architectural erosion and why does that happen? So, to go back to our non software metaphors. Imagine you buy a car. And your car has four wheels, it has a steering wheel, it has a nice chassis, it looks pretty nice. At one point, you end up replacing its 150 horsepower engine with a 250 horsepower engine because that's what you want. And you start putting a spoiler on the back of the car and then you replace the headlights. And then you replace the side view mirrors with smaller ones because you want your car to be more aerodynamic. And then you start tinkering with other things, like you cut the, maybe the roof of the car because you want to turn it into a convertible, et cetera. And in the end, what you have is a car that is still your car. Looks very different, It's structural and behavioral properties are very different And, what you might find is that the car doesn't handle nearly as well. For example, in a very sharp turn it might not be able to negotiate a steep hill as well. Because you pretty much changed it all along the way. Architectural erosion in the case of a software system is the exact same thing with one huge caveat. Very few, if any of us, will ever put a new engine into our car or tinker with the structural soundness of the car by cutting off the roof etc. In a software system we do it all the time. We'll add a feature. We'll change one bit of the user interface here. We'll port it to a new platform, some kind of a, a mobile platform, for example. And pretty soon, what you end up with is really a software system that, that is maybe a distant relative of your original system. It is a mutant in many ways, because often times these little tinkerings happen on a one off basis. There is no over-arching vision of how you should do this. So, you are basically going through a subsequent set of steps where you are making locally optimal decisions for any one of these changes and what you might end up finding is that the globally optimal behavior of the system is badly compromised. The structural soundness in a sense of the system badly compromised. The non-functional properties of the system could be seriously affected. This is how security flaws creep into systems. This is how reliability flaws. This is how we use the usability of a system often times suffers. And most importantly for software engineers, the people who actually build the software, the maintainability of the system becomes a huge problem. Because now you're looking at this thing, it's got all these various appendages, its original design has pretty badly eroded and yet somehow you have to figure out how to keep fixing it. Making sure that it operates in a continuous fashion because many of these systems live for 20, 30, 40 years. Thank you so much for your insight; it is a perfect introduction for our lesson. So we'll get to the lesson now. And. Thank you very much. Thank you. After this interesting conversation with Neno, let me start the lesson by defining what a software architecture is. And to do that, I'm going to use two seminal definitions. The first one is from Dewayne Perry and Alex Wolf. And they define a software architecture as elements, form and rationale. In this definition, the elements are the what, which means the processes, data, and connectors that compose a software architecture. The form is the how, the set of properties of in relationships among these elements. And, finally, the rationale is the why, the justification for the elements and their relationships. The second definition I want to use is from Mary Shaw and David Garland. And they defined a software architecture as a level of design that involves four main things, a description of elements from which these systems are built, the interactions among those elements, the patterns that guide their composition, and finally, the constraints on these patterns. As you can see, these definitions are fairly similar and there are many more alternative definitions of software architecture. In fact, if we try to search the term software architecture, we get over two million entries. And if we look at the images in the results of the search this is what we get. And I like this sort of graphical depiction because it gives you a clear idea the software architecture are prevalent concept, given the number of results. But they also show you clearly, that software architecture are complex entities, if you look at some of these pictures. And ultimately, they show that software architecture are presented in all kinds of ways including in 3D, if you look at this picture. We cannot clearly cover all of these definitions in one lesson. So what I will do instead, is to introduce a very general definition that encompasses most of the existing ones. I'm going to define a software systems architecture as the set of principal design decisions about the system. Where principal here, implies a degree of importance, that grants a design decision architectural status. And the point here, as we discussed with Neno early on, is that when building a system, we make tons of design decisions, and most of them do not affect the architecture of the system. For example, the effect of choosing a for loop, instead of a while loop, in the code, or the fact of deciding that we are going to use data structure A instead of data structure B. Some decisions however, do affect the architecture of the system. And in some cases the distinction between these two kinds of design decisions is clear. In some other cases it is much fuzzier and it depends on the context. The bottom line here, is that if you believe that something is an important design decision, that becomes an architectural decision. That is a decision that impacts a system's architecture. In this spirit, we can see a software architecture as the blueprint for a software system, that we can use to construct and evolve the system. And the key point about software architecture is that this blueprint encompasses every facet of the system under development. It encompasses its structure, of course, but not only. It also involves the behavior of the system, the interactions within the system, and the non-functional properties of the system. And we will see how this happens in the rest of the lesson. Another important point about software architecture is that there is a temporal aspect to it. And the point here is that you don't build the software architecture in a single shot, but you do it iteratively, over time. So, basically, you go from having no architecture to your final architecture. So, at any point in time, there is a software architecture, but it will change over time. And this happens because design decisions are made, unmade and changed over a system's lifetime. We can look at the software architecture from two main standpoints. There are prescriptive and descriptive software architectures. So what does that mean? A prescriptive architecture captures the design decisions that are made prior to the system's construction. This is what we normally call the as-conceived software architecture. Conversely, a descriptive architecture describes how the system has actually been built. So it's based on observing the system as it is and extracting the architecture from the observation. This is what we call the as-implemented software architecture. And one key point here is that often, these two architectures, the prescriptive and the descriptive architectures end up being different. So let's see why that happens. To do that let's look at how architectural evolution occurs in practice. Ideally when a system evolves, its prescriptive architecture should be modified first. Just like when you modify a building. You change the blueprint and then you change the actual building. You don't go the other way around. In software, unfortunately this rarely ever happens in practice. In practice the system, and therefore it's descriptive architecture are often directly modified. Like in this case that I'm showing here. So what happens is that the architecture as conceived does not change. Whereas the architecture as implemented, does change. And therefore these two things start diverging. And this really happens for a number of reasons. So I'm just going to list a few of those reasons here. In some cases it just happens for plain sloppiness. I need to make this modification and I don't really want to go back and look at the prescriptive architecture modified. I'm just going to make the change, and maybe I'll fix the description later. And then you never really get to it. In other cases you do this because of the perception of short deadlines. If you have to do something by this afternoon, you're not going through a four month software architecture review, you normally just get to it, and do it. In some cases a prescriptive architecture is not even present, so there's a lack of documentation. So in these cases, clearly, you cannot go and modify something that does not even exist, and so you jump directly to the code and start modifying that. And as I said there's many, many more other reasons why that happen. But important point here is that it does happen and it does happen often and the result is that prescriptive and descriptive architectures diverge. And there are two important and related concepts that have to do with the way software architecture evolves. The first one is Architectural Drift, which is the introduction of architectural design decisions that are orthogonal to a system's prescriptive architecture. That is, they're not included in, encompassed by, or implied by the prescriptive architecture. And the result of Architectural Drift is that you start from a clean architecture, like the one that I'm showing here, and then you start adding pieces without following a clear plan. Like, for example, here, we add an additional room here, but we don't really do it in the right way so we need to add something else to keep it stable. And then maybe we want some more room so we add a tent. And then another side of the house, it doesn't really follow the same architecture but it doesn't matter, we just put it there because we want to expand. And maybe then we want to put something classic there, even though it doesn't really fit the overall design and the overall architecture. So I think you get my point, the fact that the architecture then becomes unnecessarily complex, hard to understand and ultimately awkward, just like the one that I'm showing here, that goes from the original building into this final monstrosity. The second concept is Architectural Erosion, which is the introduction of architectural design decisions that violate a system prescriptive architecture. So in this case, that we were introducing decisions that were orthogonal, here, were introducing this decisions that don't comply with the prescriptive architecture. And the result of Architectural Erosion is typically a poor architecture an architecture that is going to have problems in the future. So both Architectural Drift and Architectural Erosion take you away in different ways from what you think your software architecture is or should be. And sometimes, architectural drift and erosion gets you so far away from the point where your software architecture should be, that your architecture is completely degraded. And at this point, you have two main options. The first option is to keep frantically tweaking the code. And this normally leads to disaster. Why? Because you only make things worse. You don't know exactly what you are changing and therefore, you're basically stabbing in the dark, trying to fix your system. The other possiblity is that you can try to determine the software system architecture from its implementation level artifacts, so you try to derive what the architecture is and try to fix it, once you have derived the architecture. And this is what is normally called, architectural recovery, determining a software architecture from an implementation and fixing it. And as you can imagine, this is normally a more recommended way to go than the first solution. Now that we discussed some important concepts about software architectures, I would like for you to tell me which of the following sentences is true. Prescriptive architecture and descriptive architecture are typically the same. Architectural drift results in unnecessarily complex architectures. Architectural erosion is less problematic than architectural drift. And the best way to improve a degraded architecture, is to keep fixing the code until the system starts looking and behaving as expected. Which of these sentences is true? The first sentence is definitely false. Prescriptive architecture and descriptive architecture tend to diverge as systems evolve, and sometimes, even when the system is first developed, as we will see in some of the upcoming examples. Conversely, the second sentence is true. By adding unnecessary elements to the architecture, architectural drift can transform an otherwise clean architecture into a complex sub-optimal, and often ugly, architecture. The third sentence is false. Architectural erosion and architectural drift are, indeed, different phenomena. But they both result in a less than ideal, and in some cases, highly degraded architecture. And the fourth sentence is also false, as we discussed a minute ago. Just tweaking at the code is very unlikely to improve the code. Quite the opposite, actually. The best way to repair a degraded architectural design is to first, understand the current architecture, and then, try to fix it in a more principled way. Now to drive home some of the points that I just made, I would like to show you a few real world examples of architectures that kind of went astray. The first example I want to use is an example from the Linux kernel. Actually, from an earlier version of the Linux kernel. A research group studied the documentation of Linux, and also interviewed several Linux developers. And by doing that, they were able to come up with a software architecture of Linux at different levels of obstruction. So the one that I'm showing you here on the left, is the software architecture at the level of Linux's main subsystems. So this is the prescriptive architecture of Linux at the level of Linux's main subsystems. So the researchers, after identifying this architecture, they showed it to the developers, and the developers agreed that, that was indeed the architecture of the system. The researchers then studied the source code of Linux and reverse engineered its actual architecture. So the architecture as implemented, it's descriptive architecture. And this one here, on the right, is the result. And as you can see, they found a number of differences or violations between the prescriptive architecture and the descriptive architecture. In particular, if we look at this architecture, we can see that pretty much everything talks to everything else, which is, in general, not a good thing. And in addition to that, there are also several things that don't really make much sense. For example the library calls the file system and also the network interface which doesn't make much sense. Another thing that is kind of weird is the fact that file system calls the kernel initialization code. Which is also a little bit weird. So basically, the bottom line here is that not even the developers realized how the actual architecture of the system was, and how it was different from the architecture they have conceived. And in fact another interesting thing here is the reaction of the developers when they were shown the actual architecture. So basically they justified the differences by saying things such as, well you know it had to be done fast, and therefore I changed it and then I didn't have time to go back and update the documentation and things of this sort. And by the way these are exactly some of the reasons that we mentioned early on in the lesson for the discrepancy between prescriptive and descriptive software architecture. So one last thing that I want to mention here as an aside and we can get back to that later is the fact that you can probably clearly show how representing software architectures graphically can be extremely useful, because it allows for easily seeing the structure of the system. Look at different views identify problematic points and so on. And we will see how that can be useful in many cases also later on. As another example, I want to show you the architecture of the iRods system. This is a data grid system that was built by a biologist. And it's a system for storing and accessing big data. So what I'm going to do, I'm going to do the same thing that I did for the Linux system. I'm going to show you here, on the left hand side, this clean prescriptive architecture for the iRODS system. And I'm going to show you here on the right the actual architecture of the system. The descriptive architecture of iRODS. So here, even if we don't go in and look at the details, you can see very easily that the system is badly drifted and eroded with respect to the way it was supposed to be. Continuing with the examples. What I want to show you now is the view of the complete architecture of HADOOP. As many of you probably already know, HADOOP is an open source software framework for storage and large scale processing of data sets. It's very broadly used. And here is a picture of the architecture, and I hope you can see it because the architecture is so complex and so broad and so intertwined, and in order to be able to represent it here in one page, I had to zoom out quite a bit. But also in this case, you don't really have to look at details. The important point here is that in this software architecture 61 out of the 67 components in the system have circular dependencies. Which means that they depend on each other in a circular way and this is normally not a good thing and also in this case a few developers when shown the diagram had no idea that the structure of the system was so complex and messy. I'm going to conclude this set of examples with a system that you might also know, Bash. And in case you don't, Bash is a Unix shell written as a free software replacement for the traditional Bourne shell, also called sh. So what I'm showing here is the descriptive architecture of the command component of Bash. So, is the architecture, as implemented, of the command component of Bash. And the component is the one here sort of highlighted in gray. And what you can see here, these names are the sub components of the command component. And if we look at this architecture, two design problems of the component can kind of jump at us. The first one is the lack of cohesion within the component. So, if you look here, you can see that only a few connections exist between the sub-components. And having a low cohesion is normally not a good thing for a design. The second thing that we can note is the high coupling. The component has tons of connections with other components. They're, these edges that are leaving the components and going towards other parts of the system. So basically, this component has low cohesion and high coupling, which is exactly the opposite of how a good design should be. Given the structure, it is clear that anytime you change this component you might need to change a bunch of other components in the system. And of course, when changing other components in the system, you might also need to chance the command component as well. And along similar lines, to understand this component you probably need to look at many other parts of the system, which is also less than ideal. And one important point here is that with all these examples, I'm not really trying to criticize any specific system, what I'm trying to show instead, is how complex software architectures can be, and how much they can degrade over time. And this is true for most systems, not just the ones that I showed you. At this point, we have seen some examples of things that might go wrong with the software architecture. So I'd like to ask you also to recap some of the concepts that we've touched upon. What are ideal characteristics of an architectural design? And I'm showing you three possibilities here: scalability, low cohesion, and low coupling. And some of these concepts we did not explicitly define, but we talked about it when discussing the examples that we just saw. So, let's look at these three characteristics one by one. Scalability for software architecture is its ability to handle the growth of the software system. For example, for a web based system, scalability could be the ability to handle a larger workload by adding new servers to the system. Scalability is therefore an important characteristic of a software architecture, especially for the kinds of systems that can grow over time. So, we're going to mark it as an ideal characteristic. Cohesion is a measure of how strongly related are the elements of a module. Clearly, we should shoot for high and not low cohesion when developing a system. We want to develop modules whose elements cooperate to provide the specific piece of functionality rather than modules consisting of a bunch of elements that provide different unrelated pieces of functionality. Therefor, low cohesion is definitely not something that we want. We want high cohesion instead. As for coupling, coupling is a concept related to cohesion and is also a measure. In this case though, it is a measure of how strongly related are the different modules in a system. Low coupling, which is often correlated with high cohesion, is an important and ideal characteristic of a software architecture as it indicates that the different modules in the system are independent from one another. Each module provides a specific piece of functionality and it can provide it without relying too much on other modules. Basically, systems characterized by low coupling and high cohesion, are systems that are easier to understand, and to maintain. Now that we have discussed a few foundational aspects of software architectures, and we have looked at some real world examples that help us to illustrate some of these points, to discuss some of these aspects. I want to introduce and define the different elements that compose a software architecture and also talk about architectural styles. So let's start by discussing a software architecture's elements. A software system's architecture typically is not, and should not be, a uniform monolith. On the contrary, an architecture should be a composition and interplay of different elements. In particular, as we quickly mentioned at the beginning of the lesson, there are three main types of elements in an architecture. Processing elements, data elements, and interaction elements. Processing elements are those elements that implement the business logic and perform transformations on data. Data elements, also called information or state, are those elements that contain the information that is used and transformed by the processing elements. And finally, the interaction elements are the glue that holds the different pieces of the architecture together. Now, the processing elements and the data are contained into the system components, whereas the interaction elements are maintained and controlled by the system connectors. And components and connectors get all cooked together into a systems configuration, which models components, connectors and their relationships. So now, let's look at components, connectors and configurations in a little more detail. And let's start with software components. A software component is an architectural entity that encapsulates a subset of the system's functionality and or the system's data. So basically components typically provide application specific services. In addition to that, a software component also restricts access to that subset via an explicitly defined interface. And, in addition, which I'm not showing here, a component can also have explicitly defined dependencies on its required execution environment. In complex systems, interactions might become more important and challenging than functionality. And this is why connectors are very important architectural elements. A software connector is an architectural building block tasked with effecting and regulating interactions among components. So basically, connectors typically provide application independent interaction facilities. And it's worth noting here that in many software systems, connectors might simply be procedure calls or shared data accesses. So all constants that we're familiar with. But consider that much more sophisticated and complex connectors are also possible. And components and connectors are composed in a specific way in a given system architecture to accomplish that system's objective And this is expressed through an architectural configuration. More precisely, an architectural configuration, or topology, is a set of specific associations between the components and connectors of a software system's architecture. So now, let's look at an example that brings all of this together. What I'm showing here is what an architectural configuration of a system might look like in practice. And as you can see, the configuration includes a set of components, which are these rectangles over here. The components have various kinds of ports, which are the ones marked here on the components with different graphical representations. And the components communicate through various types of connectors, which are the grey elements here which as you can see are used to connect the different components. And something else that you can notice by looking at this configuration is the fact that you can also have hierarchically decomposable components. For example, if you look at the strategy analyzer component, you can see that it has three subcomponents: one, two, and three and two internal connectors as part of it. And it is worth recalling here that a component diagram as we said when first discussed in UML in the course, can also be used to represent an architectural configuration. So sometimes you will see architectural configurations represented as UML component diagrams. A system cannot fulfill its purpose until it is deployed. And deploying a system involves physically placing the system's executable modules on the hardware devices on which they are supposed to run. So when you do that, you're basically mapping your components and connectors to specific hardware elements. Here in this diagram, for instance, I'm showing the same components that we saw in the previous diagram, but we see them deployed on a laptop, which is depicted here in this way, and on two smartphones that are represented here, or PDAs, if you wish. So why do we this, why do we create a deployment perspective for our architecture? Well, because the deployment view of an architecture can be critical in assessing whether the system will be able to satisfy its requirement. Because doing this mapping allows you to discover and assess other characteristics of your system that you might not have considered up to now. For instance, using a deployment view like this one and knowing the characteristics of the hardware devices, one might be able to assess the system in terms of available memory. Is there going to be enough memory available to run the system, for example, on this device? Power consumption. Is the power consumption profile going to be larger than what the device can handle? Or again the required network bandwidth. Does the system have enough network bandwidth to enable the required interactions? And so on. So all of these characteristics, all of these qualities, you can assess when you do this final mapping of the components to the hardware elements. The last topic I want to cover in this lesson is architectural styles. So, let's see what those architectural styles are. There are certain design choices that when applied in a given context regularly result in solutions with superior properties. What this means is that, compared to other possible alternatives, these solutions are more elegant, effective, efficient, dependable, evolve-able, scale-able, and so on. Architectural styles capture exactly these solutions. They capture idioms that we can use when designing a system. For a more formal definition, let's look how Mary Shaw and David Garlan define a architectural style. They say that an architectural style defines a family of systems in terms of a pattern of structural organization; a vocabulary of components and connectors and constraints on how these components and connectors can be combined. So in summary we can say that an architectural style is a named collection of architectural design decisions applicable in a given context. And I want to stress that it is important to study and know these architectural styles for several reasons. Because knowing them allows us to avoid reinventing the wheel. It also allows us to choose the right solution to a known problem and in some cases it even allows us to move on and discover even more advanced styles if we know the basic ones. So we should be familiar with architectural styles, what they are, and in which context they work, and in which context they do not work. So as to be able to apply them in the right situations. So what does it mean to know architectural styles? There are many many, many architectural styles. So we cannot cover them all here. What I want to do instead is, I want to mention a few of those. And then I want to go in more depth, on one of them. So the first item I want to mention is pipes and filters. And pipes and filters indicate an architectural style in which a chain of processing elements, which can be processes, threads, co-routines, is arranged so that the output of each element is the input of the next one and usually with some buffering in between consecutive elements. A typical example of this, if you're familiar with Unix are Unix pipes, that you can use to concatenate Unix commands. Another style I want to mention is the event driven one. An event driven system typically consists of event emittors, like the alarm over here, and event consumers, like the fire truck, down here, and consumers are notified when events of interest occurr and have the responsibility of reacting to those events. A typical example will be a GUI, in which widgets generate events and listeners listen to those events and react to them. For example, they react to the push of a button. A very commonly used architectural style is Publish-subscribe, represented by the paper boy. Over here. And this is an architectural style in which senders of messages, they're called publishers, do not send messages directly to specific recievers. Instead, they publish messages with one or more associated texts without knowledge of who will receive such messages. Similarly subscribers will express interest in one or more tags. And will only receive messages of interest according to such tags. A typical example of a publish-subscribe system, will be Twitter. And I'm pretty sure that most of you are familiar with the client-server architecture. In which computers in a network, assume one of two roles. The server provides the resources and functionality. And the client initiates contact with the server, and requests the use of those resources and functionality. Also in this case, a typical example would be email, in which an email server provides email storage and management capabilities, and an email client will use those capabilities. You may also be familiar with peer-to-peer, or P2P, systems. A P2P system is a type of decentralized and distributed network system in which individual nodes in the network, that are called peers, act as independent agents that are both suppliers and consumers of resources. This is in contrast to the centralized client-server model, where client nodes interact with the central authority. And I'm not going to say anything more about peer-to-peer, because I'm going to show you two examples, of peer-to-peer systems in the rest of the lesson. And you probably have at least heard of rest. Which in this case is not an invitation to relax as the graphic might indicate. But rather stands for Representational State Transfer. REST is a hybrid architectural style for distributed hypermedia systems, that is derived from several other network based architectural styles. And that is characterized by uniform connector interface, and even if I'm not going to say anything else about the rest, I wanted to mention it, because it is an extremely well known architectural style. And the reason for this is that REST is very widely used, because it is basically the architectural style that governs the world wide web. So we use it all the time when we browse the internet, for instance. Consider now the following architectural styles that we just saw: pipes and filters, event-driven, publish-subscribe, client-server, peer-to-peer, and rest. I'm showing you here, a list of four different systems, and I would like for you to mark here which architectural style, or styles, characterize Each of these systems. Again, mark all that apply. Okay, let's start with the Android Operating System. The Android system, heavily based on the generation and handling of events, so it is mostly an event driven system. However, it also has some elements of publish, subscribe, in the way elements in the system can register for elements of interest. So we can mark both styles here. So what about Skype? We haven't discussed Skype yet. So here we probably had to take a little bit of a wild guess. But as we will see in more detail in the rest of the lesson. Skype is mainly a peer to peer architecture, with some minimal elements of a client server architecture. For example, when you start Skype and sign in to a conceptually centralized server. So let's move to the World Wide Web. As we just discussed, the Word Wide Web is based on a rest architecture. And because rest style, is a hybrid derived from other architectural styles, including the client server architectural styles. Both of those styles apply here. And finally Dropbox is by and large, a client server architecture. As conceptually, we upload our documents to a Dropbox central server, and get the files from the same server. We're not going to be able to study indepth any of the architectural styles that we just discussed. However, I want to at least discuss two representative examples of P2P architectures. Because, these are systems that you probably used, or at least, you used one of them. And, they will allow me to highlight some interesting points. So, as we just mentioned, P2P systems are decentralized resource sharing and discovery systems. And the two systems that I want to discuss, and that are representative of this kind of architectures, are Napster and Skype. And you may or may not be familiar with Napster, but I'm pretty sure that you know Skype. So let's start by considering Napster. In it's first incarnation, Napster was a peer-to-peer file sharing system. And it was mostly used, actually, to illegally share mp3s. Which is also why it got sued and later on, it basically ceased operations. But nevertheless, I think Napster is an interesting example of mixed architecture. And I'm going to illustrate the way Napster works by showing you, here, the basic configuration of Napster and the interactions between its elements. So let's look at how such interaction can take place for the three peers shown here. And in this case Peer A and B are the only ones really involved in the action. So let's look at a typical sequence of events for the Napster system. We have Peer A that will start by registering, here, with the content directory. Peer B will also register with the content directory. And when these two peers register, the content directory will know what kind of content they can provide. Later on, Peer A will request a song. And one first observation that we can make, based on this interaction, is the fact that, up to now, this is a purely client-server system. This is the client. This is the client. And this is the server. And the interaction is a typical client-server interaction. But now we're at the point in which things start to change a little bit. At this point, after Peer A has requested the song, the peer and content directory will look up its gigantic index and will see that Peer B actually has the song that Peer A requested. So it will send to Peer A a handle that Peer A can use to connect directly to Peer B. So this is where the system is no longer a client-server system. Because at this point, the two peers are connected directly. So at this point, we have a peer-to-peer interaction. And, after getting the request from Peer A, then Peer B will start sending the content to Peer A. And I said earlier that one of the useful things about representing an architecture and interaction within an architecture graphically, is the fact that it allows you to spot possible problems. And in this case, by representing the Napster architecture in this way, and by studying how things work, we can see that there's an issue with the architecture of Napster that will not make this architecture scale. As some of you might have already noticed, this peer and content directory is a single point of failure, and is very likely to cause problems when the number of peers grows too large. Because at that point, there are going to be too many requests to the peer and content directory, and the peer and content directory is unlikely to be able to keep up with all the requests. So some changes in the architecture will have to be made. In the case of Napster, we didn't see this problem occurring because, as I said earlier, Napster got sued and ceased operation before the problem actually manifested. Now looking at the system for an architecture-style perspective, we can see that Napster was a hybrid architecture with both client-server and peer-to-peer elements. And something I would like to stress here, is that this is not at all uncommon. So in real world nontrivial architectures, it is very common to see multiple styles used in the same system. The next system that we will consider, Skype, is instead, an example of a well-designed, almost purely peer-to-peer system. So even if you're too young to have used Napster, I'm pretty sure that most of you know and use Skype, a Voice Over IP and instant messaging service. Many of you, however, probably don't know how Skype works. To understand that, let's have a look at Skype's architecture, which I'm sketching here, and which is a peer-to-peer architecture with a small twist. So first of all, by looking at the architecture we can see that whereas Napster was a client-server system with an element of peer-to-peer, Skype is a much more decentralized system. Why is that? Well, if we look here, we can see that there is a login server -- this node over here -- and that means that every Skype user has to register with this centralized service. But that's the only interaction of this kind within Skype. After you log in, all you get is a connection through a super node like this one. So, what are super nodes? Super nodes are highly reliable nodes with high bandwidth that are not behind a firewall and that runs Skype regularly, which means that nodes that shut down Skype occasionally will not qualify as super nodes. And one interesting thing about super nodes is that they're not owned by Skype. They're just regular nodes that get promoted by Skype to super nodes, and that know about each other. So basically Skype has an algorithm that looks at the nodes in the system and decides whether a node can be a super node or not based on its characteristics. So now that we've discussed super nodes, let's see what will happen if peer two wanted to communicate with peer three. So let's represent this by creating a dashed line between peer two and peer three. In this case, peer two will contact this super node, which is super node A. And super node A, based on its knowledge of the Skype network and the position of the super nodes, will contact and route the communication through super node C, which will in turn route the communication to peer three. And in that way peer two and peer three will be able to communicate with each other. And this will happen just as if peer two and peer three were connected directly, as peers, even though the communication goes through two super nodes. Another thing that is important to know about the behavior of Skype is that, if the link between super nodes A and C were to go down. So let's assume that there is a problem with this link, then Skype will automatically, or automagically reroute the communication through super node B, which will in turn reroute it super node C, which will again reroute to peer three. So peer two and three will still be connected, but this time they will be going through three super nodes. And just in case you wondered, this is exactly what happens when you are talking over Skype. The quality of the communication degrades, and you are reconnected. So there is this rerouting going on through different nodes. So although this architecture is more effective than the Napster's one, it is not without problems. For example, you might remember that a few years ago, Skype went down for about 36 hours. And later on it was discovered that the cause was the algorithm used by Skype to determine which nodes could be super nodes. And remember, as I said, that one requirement for these nodes is that have to up all the time. So what happened is most of the super nodes were running on Windows machines, and Microsoft pushed a critical patch that required a reboot to be installed. So a large number of machines, and therefore a large number of super nodes were down roughly at the same time throughout the globe. And Skype's algorithm for determining super nodes didn't have enough nodes to work with. So the whole system crashed and burned. So the message I want to give here, is that when you have a large peer to peer distributed system, such as this one, such as Skype, these kind of perfect storms can happen. Because you are not really in control. Because the control is distributed. So the algorithms become more complex. So to wrap up our Skype example, in case you are interested, Skype then fixed the issue by changing the algorithm for identifying super nodes. And more recently actually, Skype ditched peer-to-peer super nodes altogether. And I want to conclude this lesson with three takeaway messages. The first one is that having an effective architecture is fundamental in a software project. Or as I say here, a great architecture is a ticket to a successful project. To put it in a different way, although a great architecture does not guarantee that your project will be successful, having a poor architecture will make it much more difficult for your project to be successful. The second message is that an architecture cannot come about in a vacuum. You need to understand the domain of the problem that you're trying to solve in order to define an architectural solution that fits the characteristics of the problem. So a great architecture reflects a deep understanding of the problem domain. And finally, a great architecture is likely to combine aspects of several simpler architectures. It is typical for engineers to see problems that are new, but such that parts of the problems have already been solved by someone else. An effective engineer should therefore, first of all, know what is out there, know the solution space. Second, an engineer should understand what has worked well and what has failed miserably in similar occasions in the past. And finally, an effective engineer should be able to suitably combine existing solutions appropriately to come up with an effective overall solution for the specific problem at hand. And this is just as true in the context of software architectures. When defining a software architecture, you should innovate only as much as you need to and reuse as much as you can. As we said early in the lesson, by doing so, that is, by innovating only as much as you need to and reusing as much as you can, you will be able to avoid reinventing the wheel. You will be able to choose the right solution to known problems. And identify suitable solutions for new problems. So ultimately, you will be able to realize an effective software architecture that will help the success of your project. In the previous lesson, we discussed agile software development. Its principles and practices. And two specific agile processes. XP and Scrub. In this lesson, we will introduce a practice that is of fundamental importance in the context of agile software development. Software refactoring. Software refactoring is the process of taking a program and transforming it to make it better. That is, to make it easier to understand, make it more maintainable, and in general to improve its design. Specifically, we will discuss what the refactoring is and why it is important? When to perform refactoring, and when not to perform refactoring? And how to perform refactoring in a fully automated way, using tools. We will also introduce the concept of bad smells, where a bad smell, in software, is the indication that there might be something wrong with the code that might call for the application of refactoring. Let me start this lesson by discussing what is refactoring. Refactoring is the process of applying transformation or refactoring to a program. So as to obtain a refactor program. With an improved design but with same functionality as the original program. So key aspect of refactoring is the fact that refactoring should be somatic to perserving So what is the main goal of refactoring? The goal is to keep the program readable, understandable, and maintainable as we evolve it. And to do this by eliminating small problems soon, so that you can avoid big trouble later. And I want to stress once more a key feature of refactoring, which is the fact that it is behavior per serving. But how can we ensure that the refactoring is behavior per serving? In other words, how can we ensure that the program does the same thing before and after applying a refactoring. So what we would like to do is to have some guarantee that, that happens. And unfortunately in general, there are no guarantees. But something we can do is to test the code. For example, we can write tests that exercise the parts of the program affected by the refactoring, and if we're in a [INAUDIBLE] context, we might already have plenty of test cases that exercise that part of the code. So we might just have to rerun the test cases after the refactoring. And in fact, that's a very advantageous situation, and that's a very good use of existing test cases. And I want to make sure that you remember, and that you beware that tests provide no guarantees. Testing can only show the presence of defects, but cannot demonstrate their absence. So we can use testing to get confidence in our refactorings, but we can't really guarantee that the refactorings are behavior preserving. I'd also like to point out that for some simple refactoring, we can use a static analysis to actually provide these guarantees. And in fact we will see examples of such refactorings that are incorporated into IDs and that leverage these kinds of analysis to perform refactoring in a safe way. So let's have a small quiz and see whether you can remember why can testing guarantee that that a refactoring is behavior is preserving. So why testing can only show the absence of defects and not their presence? Is that because testing and refactoring are different activities? Because testing is inherently incomplete? Or, just because testers are often inexperienced? Make your choice. And the reason for this is because testing is inherently incomplete. So let me re-size this a little bit, so that I can make room for an illustration. And what I'm going to show you here is just a reminder, that when we test, we have a huge virtually infinite input domain, and we have to derive from this input domain a few test cases. By picking specific inputs in the domain, and of course, corresponding outputs. And so what happens normally is that these test cases represent the teeny tiny fraction of the domain, and therefore testing is always incomplete. We saw at the beginning of the lesson, what are the goals of refactoring? Or what are the reasons ,why we need to refactor in the first place? The first reason is that requirements change, and when the requirements change, we often need to change our design accordingly. In other cases if any of the requirements unchange, we might need to improve our design. And this happens for many reasons. For example, we need to add a new feature, we want to make the code more maintainable, and also in general programmers don't come up with the best design the first time. So they might need to adapt it after the fact. And the final reason I want to mention is sloppiness, and to some extent laziness, of programmers. And a typical example of this is something that we all have done, which is copy and paste programming. So instead of rewriting a new piece of code, because we know that there is some code in some other parts for the program that does a similar thing, we'll just copy the code over. And before we know, we end up with tons of copies of the same functionality. And when that happens, a good way of consolidating that code and extracting that functionality is to use refactoring, for example, by creating a method or a class that provides the functionality. And we'll see specific examples of that. A question I would like to ask at this point of the class is whether you have used refactoring before? So I want you to take a second and think about it. And no matter what you're history is, if you ever coded I bet you any money that the answer is yes, you have done refactoring. What do I mean? I'm going to give you an example. I'm sure you renamed the class or a method or change the name of some variables in the code before. That's refactoring. Even something as simple as renaming a class is refactoring, because, for example, it might help you making your code more understandable. And of course I'll admit that in this case, this is a trivial refactoring, and there are much more interesting ones. So if you follow my class so far, you know that I like to give a little bit of history when I talk about a specific topic. So I'm going to do the same also in this case for refactoring. I'm going to start by mentioning, the fact that refactoring is something that programmers have always done. I gave you a trivial example just a minute ago of what refactoring is. So even more complicated refactorings are something that are commonplace for developers. Somehow refactoring is especially important in the context of object-oriented languages and probably it's because the object-oriented features are well suited to make designs flexible and reusable. Because of the fact that help encapsulation, information hiding, and so they make it easier to modify something without changing the functionality that it provides to the outside world. However, you should keep in mind that refactoring is really not specific to object oriented languages, you can also refactor other languages, it's just more common to see it in that context. So one of the first examples of a specific discussion of what the refactorings are is Opdyke's PhD thesis in 1990. Which discusses refactorings for small talk. And some of you might be familiar with small talk, which is a specific objectory language. And in more recent times, refactoring's becoming increasing popular due to lightweight development methodoogies, due to agile development, which is something that we just discussed in this class. For example, when we talked about extreme programming, we mentioned refactoring a few times. And the reason why its so popular is because re-factoring is one of the practices that help. Making changes less expensive. And therefore adapt to changing requirements and changing environments more quickly. And continuing with historical perspective, one of the milestones in the history of re-factoring [INAUDIBLE] is a book by Martin Fowler. This is a book entitled Improving the Design of Existing [INAUDIBLE]. And it contains a catalog of refactorings, a list of bad smells, in code, and we're going to see what that mean exactly. Nothing to do with other kinds of bad smells. It talks about guidelines on when to apply refactoring. And finally, which is very useful, it provides example of code, before and after. Applying the refactoring and we're going to use more of the same style when discussing refactoring in the rest of this lesson. More specifically what we're discussing next, are some examples of refactoring and also some examples of code bad smells. There are many refactorings in Fowler's book, and what I'm showing here is just a partial list. And we're not going to have time to go through the complete list of refactorings, so what I'm going to do instead, I'm just going to pick a few of those, but I'm going to explain in more depth, and for which I'm going to provide some examples. In particular, we're going to talk about the collapse hierarchy refactoring, the consolidate conditional expressions, the decompose conditionals, extract method, extract class, and inline class. And we're going to see each of those individually in the rest of the lesson. The first refactoring we're going to see is the collapse hierarchy refactoring. When a software system undergoes a number of changes, over time the collapse hierarchy may become, let's say, sub-optimal. There are several refactorings that address this issue for example, refactorings that allow you to move methods and fields up and down the class hierarchy. So what happens when you apply a number of these refactorings, is that a subclass might become too similar to its superclass and might not be adding much value to the system. In this case, it is a good idea to merge the classes together. That's exactly what the Collapse Hierarchy refactoring does. Imagine, for instance, that we have two classes: employee and salesman. And that salesman is just so similar to employee that it does not make sense to keep them separated. In this case, you could merge the two classes, so that at the end of the refactoring, only employee is left. And the resulting structure of the system is improved. We're now going to talk about the consolidate conditional expression refactoring. A common situation in code is that you have a set of conditionals with the same result. What that means that sometimes the code contains a series of conditional checks in which each check is different, yet the resulting action is the same. In these cases, the code could be improved by combining the conditionals using, for example, and, and or, as connectors. So as to have a single conditional check, with a single result. At that point you can also extract those conditional into a method. And replace the conditional with a call, to debt matter consolidating the conditional code in this way can make the checks clearer by showing that you're really making a single check rather than multiple checks, and extracted that condition and having that matter instead of a condition can clarify your code by explaining why you're doing a given check, rather than how you're doing it. You can see an example of that situation in this code, which is the disabilityAmount method. As the name of the method says, the purpose of this code is to compute the disability amount for a given, for example, employee. And there is a set of initial checks in the methods whose goal is to decide whether there's this disabilityAmount should be instead zero. And as you can see, there's multiple conditions. For example, there's a check about the seniority level, and about the number of months that the employee's been disabled. So far, whether the employee is part time and the outcome of all these check is always the same. If they're true, if the check is satisfied then there is no disability amount. So the disabilityAmount is zero. So what I will do if I apply the consolidate conditional expression to this matter, is that I will take these three conditionals. I will put them together by saying basically that if seniority is less than 2 or monthsDisabled is greater than 12 or isPartTime is true then the return should be zero. And once I have this combined conditional, as I see here, I will just extract that into a method. So the resulting code will be like this. As you can see here, now I don't have the conditionals any longer, but I just have a call to this notEligibleForDisability method. And this makes the code so much clearer, because if I just need to understand how disabilityAmount works, I can clearly see there is an initial check that is actually checking whether an employee's eligible for disabilities or not. And if the check is false, so if the employee's eligible, then I'll just perform the rest of the computation. Otherwise I'll simply return zero. So if I don't need to understand the details of this check, I can simply look at this method and understand it all. And if I need to look at the details I can just go, and look at the implementation of this method, and I will get exactly the same information that I have here. But I'm sort of separating the concerns, and making the code overall more understandable, and therefore more maintainable, which is the main goal of refactoring. Let's now see a related refactoring, which is the decompose conditional refactoring. What happens here is that in some cases, the complexity of the conditional logic in a program can make a method hard to read and understand. Specifically we might have one or more particularly complex conditional statements. And similar to what we discussed for the previous refactoring, the conditional, if it's too complex, might tell you what happens, but obscure why it happens. To address this issue, you can do a similar thing to what we did in the previous refactoring. You can transform the condition into a method and then replace the condition with a call to that method. And if you give the right name to the method, as we saw in the last example, that can make the code much clearer and much easier to understand. In addition here you can also do something else. Let's assume that those are the then and else part of the conditional are complex. We can do the same thing with them. So what we can do, we can modify the then and else part of the conditional by extracting the corresponding code, making also that one into a method, suitably naming the method, and then having the call to the method only in the then and else part of the conditional statement. So let's see how that works with an example. Here we have the matter that computes some charge. And it computes the charge based on some corrective uses of the date that is provided as input, or it's imagined or is just, you know, one of the fields in the class. So as you can see, there is a conditional here that checks that if the dates is before the beginning of the summer, so before summer start. Or it's after the summer end. Then it compute the charge using some winterRate. Otherwise, if we are in the summer, it will compute the quantity, the charge using a summerRate. And this is just a small example, so it might not look that complex. But, you know, just project this on more realistic code, on larger code. You can end up with the conditions that are hard to understand. And even in this case, even such a small piece of code, you have to kind of look at the conditionals, figure out what does it mean for the date to be before the summer start and after the summer end. We can make this much clearer. So, how can we do it? By applying this refactoring as we described. Let's see what happens when I apply the decompose conditionals refactoring to this method. The first thing I will do is to take this condition, create a method that perform exactly the same check, give it a meaningful name. In this case I called it notSummer, which is pretty self-explanatory, and then replacing the condition with a call to that matter. As you can see here, there's a clear improvement in the code, because here I just need to look at this statement and I see right away that the check. What the check is doing is just checking whether the date is in the summer or not. So, much easier than having to interpret this condition. And the second thing I do is to take the code that computes the charge and also in this case, creating suitable methods that compute the winterCharge and the summerCharge. And I called them exactly winterCharge and summerCharge which again is self explanatory. And then I replace this computation with a call to that method. So again, when I look at this code, I can clearly see that the charge is computed using some sort of winterCharge calculation and then using some sort of summerCharge calculation. And if I don't want to know how this is exactly computed, that's all I need to know to understand what this method does. Easier and faster than looking at this method and figuring out what it does. And if I need to look at the details, exactly like in the previous case, I can just go and look at the implementation of winterCharge and summerCharge. But I will be looking at that in its specific context. So, without having to understand everything at once. So in this way, you make it clear both why you're doing something, because it is notSummer, and what exactly you're doing. You're computing a winterCharge, or a summerCharge. We are now going to talk about the extract class refactoring. When a softer system evolves, we might end up with classes that really do the work of more than one class because we keep adding functionality to the class. Therefore also they're too big, too complicated. In particular, we might end up with a class that is doing the work of two classes. Typical examples are classes with many methods and quite a lot of data, quite a lot of fields. In this case, it's normally good idea to split the class into two, so what you will do, you will create a new class and move there the relevant fields and methods from the original class. So as to have two classes, each one implementing a piece of the functionality. Let's look at an example. In this case we're going to use a UML like representation for the class. We have this class Person that ends up representing also a phone number. And imagine that we add up these pieces, you know, a little bit at the time so we end up with something that really is doing the job of the person and of the phone number. So what we can do, we can actually do exactly what we described here. We split this class into a Person class, and the Phone Number class. And then we establish a use relation, so we have a reference of the phone number class into this class. And by separating the telephone number behavior into its own class, I once more improved the structure of the code, because now I have classes that are more cohesive, and do exactly one thing. This new refactoring called inline class is the reverse of the extract class refactoring. And know that this is kind of a general situation in the sense that it is often the case that the refactoring also has a reverse refactoring that does exactly the opposite. So basically, un-dos, in a sense, the operation of the other refactoring. In this case, the motivation for the refactoring is that during system evolution, we might end up with one or more classes that do not do much. In this case what you want to do is to take the class that is not doing that much and move its features into another class. And then delete the original class. So lets use an example similar to the one we've used for the previous refactoring to illustrate how this works. Here we have in this case, two classes, person and office. And the person class is using the office class, but this latter class, the office class, only contains a phone number. So it doesn't really do that much. What we can do is therefore to fold the office class into the person class, by simply moving its only field into the class. And so the result will be this person class that also contains the information about the office number, and overall a simpler design for the code. The next re-factoring which is also the last one that we'll see, extract method is one of the most commonly used re-factoring. As it is applicable in many, many situations. The starting point is a method that is too long and contains cohesive code fragments, that really serve a single very specific purpose. So we start from a cohesive code fragment in a large method. What we can do in this case, is to create a method using that code fragment. And then replacing the code fragment with a call to that method. Let's look at this with an example. Here over this method called print owing, and what it does, imagine that it does a lot of operations here that I'm just not listing, and then it's got a set of print statements. That are just printing a lot of details about the owing information. And then again, a lot of code after that. So what I could do in this case to simplify. The method is to transform this set of statements. They are cohesive in the sense that they do just one thing, they just print these details into a method, and then I had, replace the statements with a call to that method. Which is actually something similar to what we did as part of some the previous re-factoring's. Here I'm showing the result. So here is the method that I extracted. As you can see. It contains the code that was previously here. I give you the meaningful name, I called it printDetails so it's clear what it does. And now the print owning method is simpler. Because I still have the remaining code the one I didn't touch. But now this potentially long list of details. Of prints, of details is not replaced by a single method code. So a gain similar to the previous refactorings that we saw. If we just look at the printing method, it's very easy to figure out what this part does. Oh, print some details. And once more I really want to stress this. If you don't care about how, this is implemented and knowing that this print some details is enough. Then you're done. You don't need to understand anything more. It's clear, it's self explanatory. And if you'll need to look at what print details does, you just go and look at print details. And you look at it in isolation. So it's easier to understand what this does without having to think the rest of the code. So once more the color we factor in is just to improve your design, made the code more readable Make the code more maintainable. And also keep in mind all of these, are kind of small examples. You also always have to think about the effect that this can have on larger codebases. It can really improve a lot. The understandabililty, and maintainability of your code. So in general, it's design. So now we saw, this set of re-factoring's. They're nice, but how can we actually perform re-factoring's? In some cases you'll have to do it by hand. And you'll do it in that case in small steps, so that you can check at every step that you didn't introduce any area. But there's also many cases in which at least for the more standard re-factoring's, you can just apply, you can just use a tool that actually supports re-factoring. I'm going to show you how that works, into a specific ID, Eclipse through a demo. To show you how Eclipse, can help in performing re-factoring, in an automated way, I just opened the Eclipse editor and I maximized it. So that we can look at the code more clearly. And as you can see here, I have this class. It's called Re-factorable, it's a pretty indicative name. And what we're going to do, we're going to try to apply the extract method re-factoring to this class. And in particular, to parts of this print owing method. So this is a matter than will print owing's, as the name says. And it will do several things such as, for example, printing a banner first, then calculating the outstanding debts, and then printing some details. So the starting point for an extract method re-fractoring, is the identification of some cohesive code fragment. And here, for instance, we can see that, if we can see there, these three print statements. They are basically printing some banner, for the method. And I also put a comment here just to make that even more explicit. So this is a perfect case in which we might want to just extract this part, create an independent method, so that we can make the code more readable and maintainable. So I select, the part of the code, that I want to put in my method. I invoke the contextual menu, and as you can see there is a re-factor entry here. Here are some re-factoring's [UNKNOWN], re-factoring's that I can apply, and I'm going to select extract method. When I do that, Eclipse is going to ask me to specify a method name. I'll just call this one print banner. And as you can see, as soon as I do that, Eclipse will show me the preview, for the method that will be generated. I'm going to leave the access modifier. To public and I'm not going to change anything else. So, now when I click Ok. As you can see Eclipse modified my code so that now I have the Print Banner method down here that does exactly what that piece of code was doing before. And I just have an invocation of the Print Banner method, up here, where the code was before. And of course, this is something that we could have done by hand. It's pretty easy to do, but it's even easier, to do it using Eclipse's capabilities. And this will become even more apparent, when we consider slightly more complex case. So here, if we look at this piece of code for instance, we can that see this code prints some details, about the always. And the reason why this case is likely more complicated, is because this code needs to know about the value of outstanding. And whereas that underscore name, is a member of the class, and therefore will be available to the method. Outstanding is a locker variable, so a method different from print, oh it wouldn't know anything about outstanding. So let's see what happens when we try to apply a re-factoring for this code. So we go again here to the re-factor menu, we select extract method, we will pick a name again. So let's call it [SOUND] print details, since this is what the code does. And as you can see here, Eclipse was able to figure out, that outstanding has to be a parameter, of this method. So if you look at the signature here, this will be very clear. So outstanding has to be passed to the matter because it's a locker variable of the print owing method. so it will not be visible to the other methods otherwise. So since eclipse figured it out, all I have to do, is to press Ok. And at this point what I will have here is my new method, for in details that takes outstanding as a parameter. And does exactly what the code was doing before. And here, where the code was, I will have my print details invocation, with outstanding as a parameter. So now, let's continue to extract methods. And let's look at a even more complex case. which is, the one involving this piece of code. So this piece of code, as you can see, will calculate the value of the outstanding debt. Will calculate the owing's, and the way in which it does that, is by considering all the orders, that are part of this enumeration. That is the declared here, and it will compute for each one, of these orders, the amount, and then added to outstanding. So what is the additional complication here? Well, the additional complication here is that this code needs to know, not only about outstanding. It also needs to know, about this enumeration, because this one is also a local variable. And in addition to that, this code also has some side effects. So outstanding, is modified as a consequence of the execution of this code. So how can we do that in the extracted method? Well lets see what the clips will do and what the clips will suggest. It will try to again re-factor this code and extract the method. In this case as you can see. The clips does two things. First of all, it figures out as before, that there are some parameters, that are needed for this method to operate correctly. The enumeration e, as we said, and the outstanding variable. In addition, if you look at the method signature Eclipse will also figure out that this method has to return, a double value. So what does this value correspond to? This value corresponds to a new value of outstanding. So if we, give a name to this method, so we just use the name, [SOUND] that I put in the comment over there. We click Ok, and this will create a method by extracting the code. And here, where the method used to be, we will have that the value of outstanding is updated. Based on the return value of calculate outstanding. So in the end if we look at this code, you can see that if we just focus, on this code it's very easy to understand what it does. It prints the banner, it calculates an outstanding value, and then it prints some details. And in case we don't care, as I said before, about the details of what these methods do, we're done. And if we care about the details we can look at each matter individually. And get exactly the same information that we got before, in a sort of a separation of concerns kind of way, by focusing on one problem at a time. So now let me do one last thing. So let me modify the code, slightly. So i'm going to go back, to the version of the code before re-factoring. So this is what we had. And I'm going to add, an additional variable here, [SOUND] called count, which I initialize to zero. Here I'm going to increase, [SOUND] the value of count at every iteration. And finally, here I'm going to print out the value of count. Okay, now that I have this code up. So let's imagine that I want to, again as I did before, extract this matter. So, I'm going to give you a second. Have a look at this and see, if you see any problem with that. Feel free to stop the video, if you need more time. So the problem here is that I have two side effects. Both outstanding and count are modified. And therefore it's not really possible to extract this method, and preserve the semantics of this code. Let's see if Eclipse will be able to figure that out. And it does. If we try to extract the matter here, you'll tell us that's an ambiguous return value. The selected block contains more than one assignment to look at variables. And the affected variables are outstanding, just a Double and Count which is an integer. So it will refuse to extract the method. So at this point if we wanted to do that we have we'll have to do the re-factoring a different way, but I don't really want to get there. I want to conclude here, and I hope this this little demo helped you realize how useful it can be to use an id that supports re-factoring that can automate this important task. And I also encourage you to try to play with this, and try to use different re-factoring's, on your code. So as to get familiar with the kind of re-factoring's that are supported by the ID. And also with the re-factoring's themselves and how should be used. After the demo I would like to have a little quiz about the extract method refactoring. And I would like to ask you when is it appropriate to apply the extract method refactoring. Here I have a set of possible scenarios. First one is when there is duplicated code in two or more methods. When a class is too large. When the names of two classes are too similar. Or when a method is highly coupled with a class other than the one where it is defined. So as usual, please mark all that apply. The first scenario is the typical case in which it is recommended to use the extract method refactoring, when there is duplicated code in two or more methods and we want to take this code and factor is out, and basically have the two methods called a third method, which is the one we create using the refactoring. When a class is too large, normally we don't want to apply the extract. Extract method. Instead, in this cases, it is usually more appropriate to use the extract class or extract subclass refactorings. Analogously, when the names of two classes are too similar, extracting a method will normally not help much. And all we need to do in case having too similar names is actually a problem. Is to rename one of the two classes, or both, if we wish. Finally, it is definitely appropriate to apply the extract method of refactoring in cases in which a method is highly coupled with a class other than the one where it is defined. In this case, which we will discuss also later in the lesson, the extract method of refactoring allows us to extract part of the metal to With the other class. Then we can take the matter that we just extracted and move it to the class where it actually belongs. So the extract method is one of the two refactorings that it is appropriate to apply in these cases. Now that we saw a number of refactorings, we also saw how refactorings can be performed automatically within an ID, I'd like to make you aware of some risks involved with the user refactorings. Refactorings are a very powerful tool, but you also have to be careful, first of all when you do more complex refactorings, you may also introduce subtle faults. What, we don't really call regression errors. You might change something in the class. You might think that that's a behavior preserving transformation when considering the whole code, and instead your change is affecting the behavior of some of the other parts of the code. So, it's introducing a regression that will cause some other functionality, some other piece of functionality some other feature, to work incorrectly. So you always have to be careful, and as we saw at the beginning one way to avoid that is to run tests. Every time you make a refactoring every time you change your code and refactor your code. So is to get the least some confidence in the fact that your refactoring is indeed behavior preserving. Also consider the refactoring should not. Be abused. Refactoring should be performed when it's needed. It's useful to improve the design of your code when you see problems with the design of the code. Shouldn't just be applied for the final code because you can apply, for example, easily within a tool. So be careful not over doing it when you refactor. And for the same reason that we mentioned at the beginning, you should be particularly careful when you're using refactoring for systems that are in production. Because if you introduce a problem, before the system goes in production, then you might be able to catch it earlier, with testing. Or before it's released. But, if you introduce a problem for a system in production, then you have to issue a new version of the code. You'll be affecting, you might be affecting some users, because the code fails on their machine. So, you have to be twice as careful, when you are doing refactoring, when you're changing your code for a system that is already in production. Let's also talk about the cost of refactoring. Refactoring might be free or almost free if you're using a tool to do refactoring as we did in our demo. But that's not always the case. In many cases, refactoring involves quite a bit of manual work if you're doing some manual refactoring. And how much that costs depends on how well the operations on the source code are supported. You might have partial support from an ID. You might have complete support, in which case it's greater. Or you might have no support, in which case you have to be very careful about how you change your code and how you check that you didn't change the behavior of the code. There's also an additional cost associated with refactoring. Remember that refactoring relies heavily on testing after each small step of refactoring. So you might have to develop test cases, specifically to check your refactoring. And even if you have an existing test because, for example, you're working some agile context and therefore you develop a lot of UNIX test cases before writing your code. And therefore you have a good regression test with it you can use every time you modify your code. Nevertheless, when you refactor and you change your code, you might need to update your test so it's not only the development of the test cases but also it's maintaining the test cases. And if you have a lot of test cases, you have to maintain more test cases. So that's a cost that is not directly visible but can affect quite a bit the overall cost of refactoring and the overall cost of system development therefore. And finally, you should not under estimate the cost of documentation maintenance. Applying refactoring may involve changes in interfaces, names, for example, names of classes. And when you make this kind of changes, you might need to update the documentation, and that's also cost. It's something that takes effort and therefore should be considered. Now I want to conclude this discussion on refactoring by telling you when you should not refactor. One first clear case is when your code is broken. I want to make it very clear, refactoring is not a way to fix your code in terms of its functionality. It's a way to improve the design of your code. So if your code does not compile or does not run in a stable way, it's probably better to throw it away and rewrite it rather then trying to refactor it. By definition refactoring should maintain the functionality of the system. It should be behavior preserving. So if the code was broken before, it, it's probably going to be broken afterwards as well. You may also want to avoid refactoring when a deadline is close. Well, first of all, because refactoring might take a long time and therefore might introduce risks of being late for the deadline. And also, because of what we said before about introducing problems, you don't want to introduce problems that might take you time to fix right before a deadline. So if the deadline is too close, you might want to avoid refactoring the code at that point. And finally, do not refactor if there is no reason to. As we said before, you should refactor on demand. You see a problem with the design of your code, with the structure of your code, it's okay to refactor. If the code is fine, there is no reason to refactor. I know that refactoring is fine, but you don't want to do it all the time. The next thing I want to discuss, after discussing when not to refactor, is when to refactor without an indication that will tell us that it's time to refactor the code. And that leads us to the discussion of a very interesting concept. The concept of bad smells. What are bad smells? Well, we mentioned earlier that refactoring is typically applied when there is something that does not look right, does not feel right in the code. And that's exactly what bad smells are. Bad smells, or code smells if you wish, are symptoms in the code of a program that might indicate deeper problems. So there might be parts of my system, classes in my systems, that just don't smell right, and it feels like there's, there might be something wrong with them. And if you are an experienced developer just like Brad, you'll be able to figure out there is something wrong with the classes. You'll be able to smell that there's something wrong and you'll do something about it. And I want to mention one more, just to make sure that we're all on the same page here. That these bad smells are usually not bugs and don't prevent the program from functioning. They however indicate weaknesses in the design of the system that might cause problems during maintenance. In other words, they might make the code less maintainable, harder to understand, and so on. Just like refactorings, there's also many possible different bad smells. So what I'm providing here is just a possible list of some very common bad smells. And you can find plenty of information on this online. So what I want to do next is just to cover before finishing the lesson a few of those to show you some examples of smells and what you can do about them. The first example I want to mention is this called duplicated code. So what happens here what the symptom is, is that you have the same piece of code. The same fragment of code or code structure replicated in more than one place. And that's pretty common when we do for example copy and paste programming. Is something that we mention at the beginning of the lessons. So for example we are just instead reimplementing a piece of functionality we know we already have. We simply copy from a different part of the code. So what do you do if you have duplicated code? This can be a problem over time because we might end up with a lot of duplication in your system. You can use the extract method. Refactoring that we just saw, and basically create a method that has exactly the same function as this fragment of code and then replace the fragment of code with an invocation to run and you will do it in all the places where the code is duplicated. That simply finds the code and favors reuse, because there can be more places that benefit from that additional method. Especially if it implements some popular piece of functionality. Another example of best mal a typical one is the long method. So you have a very long method with a lot of statements. And we know that the longer procedure, the more difficult it is to understand it and maintain it. So what I'm going to do in this case is to factor in such as an extract method or a decompose conditional to make the code simpler, shorten it. And extract some of the functionality into other methods. So basically break down the method in smaller methods that are more cohesive. Another typical example of best mail which is something that can happen very commonly during maintenance, is that you keep adding functionality to a class and you end up with a large class. So class is clearly to big. It contains too many fields too many methods, and is just too complex to understand. This case the obvious solution is to use the extract class or subclass and basically break down the class in multiple classes. Each one with a more cohesive piece of functionality. So, the classes are more cohesive, are more understandable, and the overall structure The structure of the system is improved. Shotgun surgery is an interesting smell and the case here is we are in a situation and you, probably will happen to you, it definitely happened to me, in which every time you make some kind of change to the system you have to make many little changes. All over the place to many different classes. And this can be a symptom of the fact that the functionality is spread among these different classes. So there's too much coupling between the classes and too little cohesion within the classes. Also in this case you can use refactoring, for example by using the move method or move field or inline class to bring the pieces of related functionality together. So that your resulting classes are more cohesive, you reduce the dependencies between the different classes, and you address this problem. Because at this point, each class is much more self-contained and therefore it can be modified by itself without having to affect the rest of the system. The last smell I want to mention is one I really like, is the feature envy, and it refers to a method that seems more interested In a class other than the one it belongs to. So for example this method is using a lot of public fields of another class, is calling a lot of methods of the other class. And so in this case the solution is really clear. What you want to do it to perform the extract method refactoring and then the move method refactoring so as to take the jealous method out of the class where it doesn't belong and get it home. To the class where it really belongs and once more the effect of this is that you decrease the coupling between the two classes and therefore you have a better system and also you eliminate the envy. Which is always a good thing. In the previous lessons of this mini-course, we discussed high level design, or architecture, low level design, and design patterns. Now, we're going to see how we can put this and also others software engineering activities together in the context of a UML-based process model, the unified software process, or USP. We will discuss how USP was defined, its main characteristics, its phases, and how we can apply it in practice. As I just said, today we're going to talk about the Rational Unified Process. And you know that I like to provide the historical perspective of the topics that we cover in class and this lesson is no exception. So let's see a little bit of history of RUP. To do that we have to go back to 1997 when Rational defined six best practices for modern software engineering. So let's look at what these practices were. The first practice involved developing in an iterative way with risk as the primary iteration driver. The second practice had to do with managing requirements, including updating them and keeping traceability information between requirements and other software artifacts. Practice number three was to employ a component-based architecture. What that means is to have a high level design that focuses on cooperating components that are nevertheless very cohesive and highly decoupled. Modeling software visually is another key aspect of the rational unified process. And the key concept here is to use visual diagrams, and in particular UML visual diagrams, in a very extensive way so as to make artifacts easier to understand and agree upon among stakeholders. And the fact that the process is defined in an iterative way, allows for performing quality assurance activities in a continuous way. So it allows for continuously verifying quality throughout the development process. Finally, change management and control were also at the center of the rational approach These six practices, that I just mentioned were the starting point for the development of the Rational Unified Process, which is what we're going to discuss next. So let's start by seeing how these activities and principles are reflected in the key features of the Rational Unified Process. First of all, the Rational Unified Process is a software process model. So if you recall our introductory lessons, that means two main things. The first one is that it defines an order of phases that have to be followed in the software process. And the second thing is that it also prescribes transition criteria, so when to go from one phase to the next. The second key feature of RUP is that it is component based. And also in this case, this implies two main things. The first one is that a software system is defined and built as a set of software components. So software components are the building blocks of our software system. And the second one is that there must be well-defined interfaces between these components, interfaces through which these components communicate. In addition, the Rational Unified Process is tightly related to UML. And in particular, it relies extensively on UML for its notation, and with respect to its basic principles. Finally, the three main distinguishing aspects of the Rational Unified Process are that it is use-case driven, architecture-centric and iterative and incremental. So let's now look in more detail at these three distinguishing aspects, and we're going to look at each one of them individually. Before doing that though, let's have a quiz to check whether you remember the basics of UML. Since we're going to talk about use cases, I want to ask you, what is the difference between a use case and a use case model. So here are the possible answers, and you can mark more than one. First one is that only use case models include actors. The second is that they are the same thing. The third one is that a use case model is a set of use cases. The fourth one says that a use case is a set of use case models. Finally, the last one says that use cases are a dynamic representation, whereas use case models are a static representation of a system. So mark all the answers that you think are correct. And the correct answer, in this case it's only one, is that a use case model is a set of use cases. So a use case model is simply a collection of use cases that represent different pieces of functionality for the system. So, since we are talking about use case diagrams, I also want to ask you, what are use case diagrams used for? So, what are they good for? Why are they useful within a software process? Also in this case, I'm providing several possible answers. They are not really used for anything. Or, they can be used to prioritize requirements. Or, maybe they can be used for user interface design. They can be used during requirements elicitation. They can be used for code optimization. And finally, they can be used for test case design. Also, in this case, I would like you to mark all the answers that you think are correct. In this case there are multiple, correct answers. So you should have marked several of those. So let's go through the list. Well this is definitely not true. They are used for something. The second answer, is a correct one, because you can order, the use cases that you planned to realize, according to your prioritization criteria. So basically what you're doing you're prioritizing either in terms of functionality. So you, you can decide which piece of functionality you want to realize first in your system. Or you can also prioritize based on the actors involved. Maybe there are some actors, maybe there are some user roles that you want to support before others, and we'll see some examples of that. The next correct question is that they can be used for requirements elicitation. Why? Well because used cases express what the system is supposed to do for each user. They're an ideal way to collect, represent, and check functional requirements. And we'll also get back to this. And finally, use cases can definitely be used for test case design. So why is that? Because each use case represents a scenario of interaction between users and the system. So testers can very naturally construct test cases based on use cases. And in addition, and most importantly, they can do that even in the absence of code that realizes a use case. So they can do it as soon as they have the requirements. They don't have to wait until the code is ready. So this is not very a important point. So you can have your test cases ready even before writing the code. And now for completeness. Even though this is not listed in the quiz. I also want to mention two additional uses for use cases. The first one is that use cases can be used to estimate effort as we will discuss in more detail in mini course four, when we talk about agile software development. And they can also be used by customers to assess requirements. Which is another fundamentally important role of the use cases. They provide a common language between the customers and the developers which makes it easier to collect the right requirements. Now let's go back to the distinguishing aspects of RUP, starting from the first one. That is, that the rational unified process is use-case driven. So let's see what that means. Generally speaking, we can see a system as something that performs a sequence of actions in response to user inputs. So the user submits some requests, or requests some functionality, and the system responds to those requests. Use cases, as we just said, capture exactly this interaction and answer the question, what is the system supposed to do for each user? So, this is a very important point. So they can represent what a system can do for each of the different types of users of the system. For this reason, and as we will see in more detail, in the rational unified process, use cases are a central element of the whole development life cycle. From requirements engineering, all the way through the process until testing and maintenance. So, once more, use cases are used to support and help each one of these phases in the rational unified process. The second distinguishing aspect of RUP is that it is architecture-centric. As we saw in the first lesson of this mini-course, a software architecture is a view of the entire system that represents all high level principal design decisions. Another way to see this is by saying that use cases define the function of the system, where as architecture defines the form of the system. Use cases give the functionality, architecture tells you how the system should be structured to provide the functionality. So how do we define a software architecture in the rational unified process. Also in this case this happens through a sort of a iterative process. We start by creating a rough outline of the system. And in this case we do it independently from the functionality. So this is just the general structure of the system. For example, we model aspects such as the platform on which the system will run, the overall style. For example, whether it's a client server or a peer to peer system and so on. We then use the key use cases in our use case diagram to define the main subsystems of my architecture. For example, in the case of a banking IT system, one of these subsystems might be the withdrawal system. So what will happen in that case is that we will have some use case that refers to the withdrawal activity, and by analyzing that use case, we'll realize that we need a subsystem that implements that piece of functionality. So again, we use the key use cases to identify and define the key subsystems for my architecture. So once we have that we keep refining the architecture by using additional use cases. So considering more and more pieces of functionality that will help us to refine the architecture of the system and also leveraging our increasing understanding of the system that we're modeling. And this will continue until we are happy with the architecture that we define. We just saw two of the three distinguishing aspects of the rational unified process. The fact that it is used case driven and the fact that it is architecture centric. The third and final distinguished aspect of R.U.P. is that it is iterative and incremental. So let's see what that means by considering the lifetime of a software project. Basically, the lifetime of a rational unified process consists of a series of cycles, such as the ones that are represented here. Cycle one, cycle two, through cycle n. And as you can see, these cycles can also be called increments. And each one of the cycles involves all of the main phases of software development. In addition, each cycle results in a product release which can be internal or external. More precisely, each cycle terminates with a product release that includes a complete set of artifacts for the project. That means code, manuals, use cases, no functional specification, desk cases, and so on. So, I've just said, that each cycle involves all of the main phases of software development. Specifically, each cycle is further divided in four phases. Inception, elaboration, construction and transition. In a minute, we will look at each one of these phases in detail and see how they relate to the traditional activities of software development. Before that, I want to mention the last level of this iterations, which happens within these individual phases More precisely, inside each of these phases, there might be multiple iterations. So what are these iterations? Well, basically, each iteration corresponds to a group of use cases that are selected so as to deal with the most important risks first. So if you have a set of use cases that you're considering, which means that you have a set of features that you need to implement, you will select for each iteration the most risky ones that you still haven't realized, and realize them in that iteration. And then continue in the following iterations with less and less risky ones. So basically what happens in the end is that essentially each iteration extends the functionality beyond the previous iteration. To make this a little more concrete, let's look at an example involving cycles, phases, and iterations. Let's assume that we have to develop a banking IT system. The first possible cycle for such a system could be one in which we implement the basic withdrawal facilities. What this means is that, at the end of this cycle, there will be the release of the product that implements this piece of functionality. But notice that this will not be the only product release because within the cycle, we will perform also the four phases that we mentioned before, inception, elaboration, construction, and transition. And within each of these phases, we might have multiple iterations. And at the end of each iteration, we will also have a product release. Which in this case, will be an internal one. As you can see, the iterative nature is really inherent in the unified rational process. So, now let's clean up here, and let's see what some other possible cycles could be for our banking IT system. Here, I'm showing two possible additional ones. The first one, cycle two, which will develop the account and system management. And the third one, cycle three, which will develop the full account management and cross selling. Similarly to cycle one, also these cycles will produce a product, both at the end of the cycle, and within the cycle in the different phases. And there's a few more things to note. So the first one, is that each cycle focuses on a different part of the system. So what you will do, when you use the rational unified process, you will select a subset of use cases that you want to realize within your cycle. And the final product for that cycle, will be a product that realizes those use cases. This is the first aspect. The second one, is that these cycles, as you can see, are slightly overlapping. So it is not the case that you finish a cycle, and then you start the next one. So there is a little bit of overlap among cycles, and we'll talk about that more. And finally, I want to stress one more that each cycle contains four phases, and each one of these phases might be further splayed in iterations. So that's kind of a high level view of how the whole process will work. Now let's go back to the phases within a cycle. because I want to show you how they relate to traditional activities of software development. Because this is the first time that we talk about inception, elaboration, construction and transition. So we will know what they mean, in terms of the traditional software development. So I'm going to first discuss these relations and then I'm going to talk about each individual phase in further detail. So I'm going to start by representing the four RUP phases here with possible internal iterations. I1, E1 and E2, C1, C2, and so on. And just as a reference, this is the way in which time will progress. So we will start with inception and we will finish with transition. So what I'm want to do now is to show the actual, traditional, software development activities here on the left. And I also want to show you, using this diagram, how these activities are actually performed in each of the RUP phases. So, let's see what this representation means. Basically, what I'm showing here, is that requirements engineering actually starts in the inception phase. So, you can see the height of this bar as the amount of effort devoted to this activity in this specific phase. So you can see that requirements engineering starts in inception phase, is mostly performed in the elaboration phase, and then it continues, although to a lesser extent, throughout all phases up until the end of the transition. But the bulk is really performed here in the elaboration phase. Similarly, if we consider analysis and design, we can see that analysis and design are mainly performed in the elaboration phase. But a considerable amount of it also continues in the construction phase, and then it kind of phases out. So there's very little of that done in the transition phase. Looking now at implementation, you can see that the implementation happens mostly in the construction phase, which is, unsurprisingly, the phase that is mostly concerned with actual code development, as we will see in a minute. Testing, on the other hand, is performed throughout most phases, with, peaks in some specific point, for example, at the end of some iterations, like here and here. To conclude, we have the business modeling activity that happens mainly in the inception and a little bit in the elaboration phase and the deployment activity which happens a little bit throughout, but the bulk of it is really in the transition phase, which is actually the phase that has to do with deployment and then maintenance. So I hope this kind of high level view gives you a better understanding of what is the mapping between these new phases and, the typical software development activities that we are more familiar with. So to further this understanding, later in the lesson, I'm also going to talk about these specific phases individually. First, however, I want to spend a little more time discussing what happens inside each one of these iterations, just to make sure that we are all understand what an iteration is exactly. So what happens, exactly, within an iteration? In almost every iteration, developers perform the following activities. So they identify which pieces of functionality this iteration will develop, will implement. After doing that, they will create a design, for the considered use cases, and they will do that guided by the chosen architecture. So the set of use cases plus the architectural guidelines will result in a design for the selected use cases. Once the design is defined, then the developers will implement the design, which will result in a set of software components. They will then verify the components against the use cases to make sure that the components satisfy the use cases, they suitably realize the use cases. And they will do that through testing or some other verification and validation activity. Finally, after verifying that the code actually implements the use cases, they will release a product, which also represent the end of the iteration. And notice that what I put here is an icon for the world, in double quotes. Because in many cases the release will be just an internal release or maybe a release that will just go to some of the stakeholders so that they can provide feedback on that. Okay. So it doesn't have to be an external release. It doesn't have to be a release to the world. But it is, nevertheless, a release of a software product. . So now, since we're talking about the incremental and iterative nature of the Rational Unified Process, let's have a quiz on the benefits of iterative approaches. So I'd like for you to tell me what are these benefits. Is one benefit the fact that iterative approaches keep developers busy or maybe that they give developers early feedback, that they allow for doing the same thing over and over in an iterative way. Maybe they also minimize the risk of developing the wrong system. Can they be used to improve planning, or is it the benefit that they accommodate evolving requirements. Also, in this case, I would like for you to check all the answers that you think are correct. Okay so let's look at the first one. Well I don't think that the fact of keeping developers busy is really one of the highlights or the main benefits of iterative approaches. Developers are really busy without any need for additional help. So I will just not mark this one. The second one conversely is definitely one of the advantages of iterative approaches. So the fact that iterative approaches give the developers a early feedback, is a great advantage which has in turn additional advantages. For example, it increases the project tempo, so it gives the developers not busy but more focused. It's easier to be focused when you have a short term deadline, or a short term goal rather than a release that is planned in six months or even later. Another advantage of this early feedback is the fact that developers are rewarded for their efforts so, there is sort of an immediate rewards because you can see the results of your effort instead of having to wait a long time to see such results. And last, but not least the fact of getting early feedback also minimizes the risks of developing the wrong system. So why is that? Well because getting early feedback will also allow us to find out whether we're going in the wrong direction early in the development process rather than at the end. And therefore, will minimize this risk. Going back to the previous question, yeah, I don't think that, you know, doing the same thing over and over is a great advantage. And in fact, iterative approaches do not do the same thing over and over. So they keep iterating, but they keep augmenting the amount of functionality in the system. They don't just repeat the same thing. As for improving planning, actually improving planning is not really a strength of these approaches, because sometimes the number of iterations is hard to predict, so it's hard to do a natural planning when you are using an iterative approach. So finally, are iterative approaches good for accomodating evolving requirements? Most definitely. First, iterative approaches, and in particular, the one that we're discussing consider requirements incrementally, so they can better incorporate your requirements. So if there are new requirements, it's easier to accommodate them using an iterative approach. Second, these approaches realize a few requirements at a time. Something from the most risky ones, as we said. So any problem with those risky requirements will be discovered early, and suitable course corrections could be taken. So in case you still have doubts about iterative approaches, it might be worth it to go back to mini course number one, lesson number two to discuss the life cycle models. Because we talk about iterative approaches and their advantages and their characteristics there in some detail. Let's talk a little bit more about phases. The rational unified process phases are fundamental aspects of this process and which just touched on them so we just give a quick overview. And I want to look at these phases in a little more detail. So, what I'm going to do is, for each phase, I'm going to discuss what it is, what it produces and how is the result of the phase suppose to be,. Assessed, and what are the consequences of this assessment. So let's start with the first phase, the inception phase. The first phase goes from the idea of the product to the vision of the end product. What this involves is basically to delimiting the project scope. And making the business case for the product presented. Why is it worth doing? What are the success criteria? What are the main risks? What resources will be needed? And so on, specifically these phases answer three main questions. The first one is, what are the major users or actors, to use the UML terminology. And what will the system do for them? To answer this, these phases produce a simplified use-case model where only a few use-cases are represented and described. So this is a sort of initial use-case model. The second question is about the architecture, what could be an architecture for the system? So in this phase we will normally also develop a tentative architecture. So an initial architecture that describes the most crucial subsystems. Finally this phase also answers the question, what is the plan and how much will it cost? To answer this question. This phase will identify the main risks for the project and also produce a rough plan with estimates for resources, initial planning for the phases and dates and milestones. Specifically, the inception phase generates several deliverables. It is very important that you pay attention so that you understand what this deliberate approach are. Starting from the first one, which is the vision document. And this is a document that provides a general vision of the core projects requirements, key features and main constraints. Together with this, the inception phase also produces an initial use case model, as I just mentioned. So this is a use case model that includes an initial set of use cases, and then will be later refined. Two additional variables are the initial project glossary, which describes the main terms, using the project and their meaning, and the initial business case which includes business context. And success criteria. Yet another deliverable for the inception phase is the initial project plan, which shows the phases, iterations, roles of the participants, schedule and initial estimates. In addition, the inception phase also produces a risk assessment document, which describes the main risks and counters measures for this risk. Finally, and this is an optional deliverable, in the sense that it, it might or might not be produced, depending on the specific project. As part of the inception phase we might also generate 1 or more prototypes. For example, we might develop prototypes to address some specific risks that we have identified or to show some specific aspect of the system of which we are unsure to the stakeholders. So basically all the typical users of prototypes that we discussed before. So when we're done with the inception phase we hit the first milestone for the cycle we are currently performing. And so there are some evaluation criteria that will tell us whether we can consider the inception phase concluded or not. And the first of this criteria is stakeholder concurrence, which means that all the stakeholders must agree on the scope, definition, and cost schedule estimates for the projects. The second criteria needs requirements understanding, out of the initial primary use cases that we have identified so far, the right one for our system. And other criteria is the credibility of the cost schedule estimates, the priorities, defined the risks identifies and the countermeasures for those risks, and the development process that we're following. Finally, in the case we produce prototypes as part of the inceptional phase, this will also be evaluated and assessed to judge the overall outcome of the phase. So what happens if the project fails to pass this milestone? So if the outcome of the inception phase is considered to be inadequate with respect to one or more of these criteria. Well at this point, since we're kind of an initial phase of the cycle the project may be cancelled or considerably re-thought. So to summarize all of these in one sentence the Inception Phase is the phase in which we produce. Then you shall vision, used case model, project plan, risk assessment and possibly, prototypes for the project. And we have to make sure, that all of this deliverables satisfy a set of criteria, so that we can continue on the project. And otherwise, we'll either cancel the project or rethink its scope, or other aspects of it. Now that we've discussed the inception phase, let's move on to the second phase of RUP, which is the elaboration phase. And there are four main goals and activities for the elaboration phase. Analyzing the problem domain to get a better understanding of the domain. Establishing a solid architectural foundation for the project. Eliminating the highest risk elements which basically means addressing the most critical use cases. And finally, refine the plan of activities and estimates of resources to complete the project. The outcome of the elaboration phase reflects these activities and also in this case produces several artifacts. The first one is an almost complete use case model with all use cases and actors identified and most use case descriptions developed. As part of this phase we also identify a set of what we called supplementary requirements. So these are basically all the requirements that are not associated with a use case. And these sets includes in particular all non-functional requirements such as security, reliability, maintainability and so on. So all the ones that are relevant for the system that you're developing. We mentioned before that the software architecture is developed in an incremental way, so it's not created at once. And this is exactly what happens in the elaboration phase, that we take the initial architecture that was defined in the inception phase and we refine it until we get to a software architecture which is complete. And that is part of the deliverables for this phase. And the list continues, so let me make some room. In addition to producing a complete architecture for our system, in the elaboration phase we also define the lower-level design for the system. And, therefore, as part of this phase, we produce as deliverables a design model, and together with that, a complete set of test cases, and an executable prototype. We also produce a revised project plan. Now that we have more information about the project we can refine the various estimates and the various pieces of information in the project plan. And also an updated risk assessment document. Finally, in this phase we also generate a preliminary user manual that describes to the users how the system can be used and should be used. So now let's see what are the evaluation criteria for the elaboration phase which is our second milestone. So I'm just going to list them here. The first one is whether the vision and the architecture are stable or they're still changing so did we converge into a final complete vision for the system? Does the prototype show that the major risks that we have identified have been resolved or at least addressed in this phase? Is the project plan sufficiently detailed and accurate? Do all stakeholders agree that the vision can be achieved with the current plan? Is the actual resource expenditure versus the planned expenditure acceptable? So now we study consumer resources and therefore we can check whether our estimates were correct. And also in this case the project might be cancelled or considerably reshaped if it fails to pass this milestone. So if the elaboration phase is successful, we then move to the construction phase, which is our third phase. And the construction phase is basically the phase in which most of the actual development occurs. In short, all the features considered are developed. So we'll continue with our car metaphor that we used for the prototype. And in this case we will have our complete car ready. Not only the features are developed but they're also thoroughly tested. So we have performed quality assurance. We have verified and validated the software, the system and we know that it works correctly. Or at least that it works correctly as far as we can tell. So, in general, the construction phase is the phase in which there is a shift in emphasis from intellectual property development to product development. From ideas to products. So, what is the outcome of the construction phase? Well, basically the construction phrase produces a product that is ready to be deployed to the users. Specifically, the phase generates the following outcomes. First of all, at the end of this phase, all the use cases have been realized with traceability information. What does that mean? It means that not only all the functionality expressed by the use cases have been implemented, but also that we have traceability information from the use cases, to the different artifacts. So for example, we know which part of the design realizes which use case. We know which part of the implementation is related to a given use case. Which use cases were derived from a use case, and so on and so forth. And in this way we can trace our requirements throughout the system. Throughout the different artifacts that were developed during the software process. As we were saying, we also have complete software product here, which is integrated on all the needed platforms. Since the system, the software product, has to be thoroughly tested, we will also have a complete set of results for our tests. As part of this phase, we will also finalize the user manual, so you'll have a user manual ready to be provided to the users, and ready to be used. And finally, we will have a complete set of artifacts that include design documents, code, test cases, and so on and so forth, so basically all of the artifacts that have been produced during the development process. So roughly speaking, we can consider the product that is produced at the end of this phase as a typical beta release. So in case you're not familiar with that, a beta release is an initial release normally meant for a selected subset of users. So it is something that is not quite yet ready for primetime, but almost. So let's see also in this case, what are the evaluation criteria for the construction phase. So how do we assess, that this third milestone has been accomplished, successfully? We pretty much have a complete product ready to be shipped right? So the first question we want to ask is, whether the product is stable and mature enough to be deployed to users. At the end of this phase it has to be. Are the stakeholders ready for the transition into the user community? Are we ready to go from development to production? Are the actual resource expenditures versus the planned expenditures still acceptable? So what this means is that at this point we can really assess whether our estimates were accurate enough with respect to what we actually spent for the project up to this point. So unless we can answer in a positive way to all these questions, the transition might be postponed by one release. Because that means that we're still not ready to go to the market. We're still not ready to deploy our product. But if we are ready to go to the market, if we are ready to deploy our product, then we can move to the transition phase, which has mainly to do with deployment and maintainence of a system. So what are the main activities in the transition phase? As we discussed in our initial lessons, in most real world cases, there are issues that manifest themselves after deployment, when we release our software and actual users interact with the software. Specifically, users might report failures that they experienced while using the system. So, what we call bug reports. Or they might report improvements they might want to see in the software. So typically these will be new feature requests. And in addition, there might be issues that don't come necessarily from the users but that are related to the fact that our system has to operate, has to work in a new execution environment. For example, the new version of an operating system, or the new version of a set of libraries. When this happens, we have to address these issues by performing maintenance. Specifically, corrective maintenance for bug reports, perfective maintenance, for feature requests, and adaptive maintenance, for environment changes. And the result of this is that we will have a new release of the software. Other activities that are performed in this phase include training, customer service, and providing help-line assistance. Finally, if you remember what we saw when we were looking at the banking IT system example, the cycles within a development are not necessarily completely dis-joined, but they might overlap a little bit. So something else that might happen in the transition phase is that a new cycle may start. So there might be some activities that are related to the fact that we're starting to think about the new cycle. So now let's see what kind of outcome these activities will produce. The first one is a complete project with all the artifacts that we mentioned before. Another outcome is that the product will be actually in use. So the product will be in the hands of the users and the users will start using it, will start interacting with it, for real, not just in a beta testing setting. Another outcome will be a lesson learnt. What worked. What didn't work. What should we do different in the next cycle or in the next development? And this is a very important part of the whole process, because it;s what provides feedback between cycles, and between projects. And as we said before, in case we have a next released planned or a next cycle coming up, we might want to start planning for the next release. So another outcome will be the plan for the next release. So similar to the other phases, also for the transition phase, we have a milestone, which is the fourth milestone in this case. And therefore we have evaluation criteria for the transition phase that will define whether we've reached the milestone or not. And in this case, one important assessment is whether the user is satisfied. So users are actually using our product now, so we can get feedback from them, we can see whether the product makes them happy or not. And we continue assessing whether our expenditures are fine with respect to our estimates. And in this case, problems with this milestone might lead to further maintenance of the system. So for example, we might need to produce a new release to address some of the issues that the users identified, as we discussed a couple of minutes ago. So now I would like to wrap up this lesson by going back to our discussion of rational unified process phases and iterations. So to do that I'm going to bring back the presentation that I used before, the summary representation about phases and traditional software engineering activities. And I want to use this representation to stress and discuss a couple of things. Mainly I want to recap it because I think it is very important. What is the relation between the rational unified process, and the traditional software engineering phases, and software engineering activities? And I like to do it now that we have discussed the phases in a little more detail. So I want to make sure that it is clear by now how and when the traditional software engineering activities, the ones listed here, take place in the context of the RUP phases, the four listed up here. For instance, it should be clear why implementation takes place mainly in the construction phase. Why requirements engineering is prominent in the elaboration phase and why deployment activities occur mostly in the transition phase, and so on. So it should be clear now why the activities are so distributed in the four phases. It should also be clear that although there is normally one main phase for each activity, the activities really span multiple phases. Which is actually one of the interesting aspect of RUP. So the fact that you're not really done with an activity even in later phases. Why? Well, because that allows you, in subsequent iterations, to address problems that came up in previous iterations. Hi and welcome to the second lesson on tools of the trade. In the previous lesson we talked about IDEs. Integrated Development Environments and in particular we discussed the eclipse ID. Today we're going to talk about another fundamental type of tools in the software engineering arena. Version control systems. And these are also called, revision or source control systems. In particular, we will focus on a specific version control system called git. And as we did for eclipse, we will first present git from a conceptual standpoint. And then we will do a demo. To get some hands-on experience with GIT. And I thought that the best way to break the ice on version control systems and Git and some other related concepts was to interview John Britton who works with GitHub. So let's go and see what John has to say about Git, about version control systems in general, and about GitHub. John is in Tapei, if I'm not wrong. That's correct. Okay so we're, you know we couldn't go there so we're interviewing him remotely. And I want, I just want to thank you so much and John for agreeing to talk to us. Thank you very much for having me it was my pleasure. And, I'm just going to ask, a few general questions because John is an expert on, Git and GitHub. John is a developer and a community builder is active in both the open source and the open education areas. And as an educational liaison we have, is working to improve Computer Science education by bringing the principles of open source into the classroom. And I'm going to start with an general question, which is what is a version control system? So, a version control system is a tool that software developers use. Anybody who's doing you know, working with digital assets, digital projects can also use for keeping track of, you know, revisions of your project, and when I say revisions, I mean essentially snapshots of your project over time. So you can imagine doing some work and then every so often, be it, every couple of hours, every couple of days, saving a permanent snapshot of your project. Why is this useful? I understand that it is nice to take a snapshot of your project, but what did you do with the snapshot afterwards? I think the most immediately obvious benefit to having snapshots of your project to keeping revisions is that you can go back. If you have ever worked on a project and got to a point where you solved a bunch of your problems, and there is just one more step to do. And you start working on trying to solve that last step, and you break things, you make it worse then it was an hour ago. At that point its easier to just go back to what you had then trying to figure out what you broke. So you can always go back in time, and the other big one is being able to collaborate with multiple people, so its pretty seldom these days that you. Work on a production totally on your own. It's most common to work in, you know, in teams and small groups. And so, using a revision control system allows you to collaborate with other people. And make sure that you don't step on each other's toes as you're working. Alright, that's great, because those are exactly some of the topics that we're going to cover in the lesson. And so since we're going to talk about the specifics of version control system which is Git and you're definitely an expert in, in Git. So what would you say is specifically special about Git? What characterizes it and how does it compare to other version control systems. So if any of you have used version control systems before, you may have heard of something like subversion, CVS, or maybe a commercial solution like ProForce. I think the main important characteristics of Git are first that it's open source. And the second, that it's a distributed version control system. So what that means, the distributed version control system is essentially a system for tracking revisions of your software that doesn't have any central repository. So the biggest characteristic is that I can do my work and you can also work on the same project at the same time without communicating with each other and without communicating to a central system. Okay, great. And so now that we saw what Git is, what is GitHub and how does it fit into this picture of the distributed, revision control system? So GitHub is, the world's largest code host, and we essentially have a website where you can collaborate with people when you're writing code. There's two ways you can use GitHub. You can use it publicly for open source and you can use it in private within your team, or your company, or within your class. And, Git Hub started out just as a way to host your Git repositories. But it's actually grown into quite a bit more. It's an entire collaboration system around your code. How many users do you have? I would say that we're approaching five million. I don't know the exact number. We're definitely more than four million right now. But yeah, I'd say somewhere, somewhere close to between four and five million. So that's a lot space I'd guess. Terabytes of disk space, I would imagine. There are a lot of GIT repositories on, on our servers. Something else you want to say? I guess that the when taking about GitHub there's one thing that you kind of can't leave out and that's that's a feature that's called a pull request. So when you're using GitHub, you can share your Git repository, do some work, and actually do do a code review. Of proposed changes which is what we call a pull request on github.com. Essentially what it lets you do is have a discussion about a set of proposed changes and leave feedback in line with the code. You could say for example, this method needs to be re-factored or I think I found if off by one error here, just different kinds of feedback so that before you totally integrate some proposed changes. You have, kind of a conversation about what your code. And I think that's really valuable when you are working in a team. Thank you, John, that was very informative and thanks again for taking the time to talk to us. No problem, thanks for having me. I'll talk to you soon. Let's thank again John for enlightening us on some aspects of version control systems, Git and GitHub. And now, let's go over some of the topics that we discussed with John to recap them. So first of all, what is a version control system? A version control system or VCS, is a system that allows you to manage multiple revisions of the same unit of information. For example of documents, of source files or any other item of that sort. And as the graphical depiction shows, a VCS allows a multiple actors. Here we have four, to cooperate and share files. Now, let's drill into this concept in a little more detail. And let's do that by discussing why is VCS useful, especially in the context of software engineering and of software development. So first of all, using a version control system enforces discipline, because it manages the process by which the control of items passes from one person to another. Another important aspect of VCS is that it allows you for archiving versions. So you can store subsequent versions of source controlled items into a VCS. And not only you can store versions, you can also maintain a lot of interesting and important historical information about these versions. For example, a VCL will store information such as, who is the author for this specific version stored in the system. Or, for another example, on what day and what time that version was stored. And a lot of other interesting information about the specific version of the item. Information that you can then retrieve and for example, use to compare versions. Obviously, the fact of having a central repository in which all these items are stored enables collaboration, so people can more easily share data, share files, share documents through the use of VCS. And I'm sure that you all had the experience of deleting a file by mistake or modifying a file in the wrong way, or in the most common case of changing something in your code for instance. And breaking something and not being able to go back to a version that was working. Not remembering, for example, what is that you changed that broke the code. In all these cases a version control system can be extremely useful because it will allow you to recover from this accidental deletions or edits. And for example, to go back of yesterdays version that was working perfectly, and also to compare, for example, yesterdays version with today version and see what is that you changed. Finally, a version control system will normally also allow you to conserve and save disk space on both the source control client and on the server. Why? Well, for instance because it's centralizing the management of the version. So instead of having many copies spread around, you'll have only one central point where these copies are stored or a few points where these copies are stored. In addition, version control system often uses efficient algorithms to store these changes. And therefore, you can keep many versions without taking up too much space. Now before we continue, and we look at more details of version control systems, I want to ask you a quick question about VCS. I want to know whether you have used a version control system before, and if so, which one or which ones. I'm going to list in here some of the most commonly used version control systems, like CVS, Subversion, GIT, and I'm also allowing you to specify other VCS in case you have used different ones. And of course there's no right answer for this. I just wanted to collect some statistics. To see what kind of previous experience you have with this kind of systems. What I want to do next, is to look at how version control systems actually work. We saw what they are. We saw why they are useful. But how do they actually work? And we're going to do that by starting from some essential actions that version control systems perform. The first one is the addition of files. So, when you use a version control system, you can add a file to the repository. And at that point the file will be accessible to other people who have access to the repository. And now the fundamental action is commit. When you change a file, a file that is already in the repository, when you make some local changes to a file that is already in the repository, you want then to commit your changes to the central repository, so they can become visible to all of the other users on the repository. Finally, another fundamental action is the action of updating a file. If we have a repository and someone else can modify the files in the repository, I want to be able to get the changes that other people made to the files in the repository. And these are just three of the basic actions, but there are many, many more. And we'll see several of those. Before looking at additional actions, though, I would like to see what is the basic workflow in a version control system using the three actions that we just saw. And to do that I'm going to use two of our friends, Brad and Janet. So we have Janet here, Brad, and a VCS that they are using. Now imagine that Janet creates a file called foo.txt and puts some information in the file. At that point she might want to add the file to the repository and to commit it so that her changes and the file get to the central repository. And when she adds and commit, that's exactly what will happen, in foo will be come available here, and will be accessible to the other users. In this case it'll be accessible to Brad. If Brett were to run an update command, what will happen is that the file foo.txt will be copied on the local work space of Brad and Brad will be able to access the file. At this point Brad might want to modify the file, for example add something to this existing file. After doing that, he also may want to share the updated file with Janet. To do that, he will commit the file and the result will be exactly the same of when Janet committed her file. That the updated file will be sent to the repository and the repository will store that information and make it available for other users. So now, if Janet performs an update, she will get the new version of foo.txt with the additional information that was added by Brad. And we will see all of this in action in our next demo in a few minutes. Before getting to the demo, I want to say a few more things. In particular, I discuss the main don'ts in VCS. So, what are some things that you don't want to do, and you should not do, when you're using a version control system? And I'm going to mention two, in particular, because these are two that I witnessed several times when I was teaching this class and also when collaborating with other people. So, there are two kinds of resources that you don't want to add to a VCS normally. One is derived files. For example an executable that is derived by compiling a set of source files, where the source files all already in the repository. At that point, there is no reason to also add the executable file in the repository. So in general, any executable file should not be added to repository. The second class of files that I want to mention is these bulky binary files. If you have one such file, it is normally not a good idea to store them under a version control system, to store them in the repository. There might be exceptions to these rules, but in general, these are the kind of files that you want to keep local, and you don't want to put in the VCS repository. Another typical mistake, and that happens all the time, especially to novice users of VCS. Is that you get your file from VCS and so you get your local copy of the file that was in the VCS, and you want to make some changes, and before making the changes you decided, no, no let me actually save a local copy of the file, and I'm going to work on that one. Or let me save it before I modify it, or let take a snap shot of a whole tree of files. Just because I don't really trust the fact that VCS is going to be able to help and is going to be able to recover from possible mistakes. Never ever do that. I have seen that done many times, and it always leads to disasters. First of all it is useless, and second it's risky. Because then what happens is that at the time in which you have to turn in your assignment, in the case you are doing an assignment, but even in more serious situation, when you have to turn in your code, for example to your colleagues. You always end up being confused about which is the version that you're really using. So absolutely no local copies. No local redundancy when you're using a version control system. Trust the version control system, and trust the version control system to be able to manage your versions. You can always save it, commit it, retrieve previous versions, and you'll be able to do everything that you can do by copying the file yourself, and even more. So again, try the VCS. Something else I want to mention is that there are many different version control systems but we can classify them normally in two main types: centralized VCS's and decentralized VCS's. So what is the difference between these two? Let's use again our friends Janet and Brett. In the case of a centralized version control system there is a single centralized, as the name says, repository. On which they are commiting their files. So when Janet commits a file. The file will go from her local working directory to the repository, and the same will happen to Brett. The decentralized system is a little more interesting because in this case, they will both have sort of a local repository in which they can commit their changes. So they can commit changes without the other users of the VCS being able to see these changes. And when they're happy with the version. And when they're ready to release the version, they can push it to a central repository. And at that point, it will become available to the other users of the repository. To the other users of the VCS. There are several advantages in a distributive system. I'm just going to mention a few, because there are really many. One is the fact of having this local version. If you used VCS before, I'm sure you've been in the situation in which you want to kind of take a snapshot of what you have. But you don't want that snapshot to be available to the other users. Because it's still not ready to be released, to be looked up. If you're using a centralized system, there's really no way you can do that, unless you make a local copy, which is something we said you don't want to do. With a distributor, with a decentralized VCS you can commit your local changes here, in your local repository, and you can push them to the central repository only when you're ready. Another big advantage, is that you can use multiple remote repository. In fact, centralized is not the right name for this one. This is just a remote repository, and I can have more than one. For example, Brad might want to push to another remote repository. As well. For instance, this could be a repository where the files are accessible for wider distribution. Imagine developing a software system in which a team is sharing internal versions, and then only some of these versions are actually pushed to the repository that is seeable to the whole world. One good representative of distributed version control systems, is GIT. A distributed version control system that was initially designed and developed by Linus Torvalds. I'm pretty sure you know who Linus Torvalds is. He's basically this guy who started and created the Linux operating system. And Linus was unhappy with the existing version control systems, and wanted a different one. He wanted to use it for maintaining the Linux kernel. In particular, he wanted one with some key characteristics. For example, the fact that it was distributed. He wanted it to be fast. He wanted it to have a simple design. And he wanted to have a strong support for parallel branches, because many people were contributing to the kernel at the same time. And therefore there many different branches of development. And finally, he wanted for the virtual control system to be able to handle large projects. As the Linux kernel is, and to do it in an efficient way. So if you want to get an idea of how popular GIT is today, there was a survey performed across the Eclipse IDE users, and it showed that in 2013 GIT was used by about 30% of the developers. So the, it had a 30% adoption rate. So we will use a GIT as a version control system for the class. As we did for Eclipse, and IDEs in general, we want to start a GIT in a hands on way. So we're going to start by seeing how to install GIT. And GIT is also multiplatform, so you can install it no matter what operating system you are using, unless of course you are using some arcane operating system. But if you are using Linux, for instance, there should be a package available that can install GIT for your specific distribution. If you're using Mac OS, GIT is also available as part of XCode and also as an independent package. Finally, if you're using Windows, GIT is available as a package with an installer. In general, you can go here to get information about how to get GIT, where to download it, how to install it, and so on. So, now what I'd like for you to do is to go, get GIT, install it, in case you don't have it installed already on your machine. And after that, you should be able to run GIT from the command line. And, that's exactly what we're going to do through a demo. But before jumping into the demo I would like to give a high level overview of the GIT workflow, which will help you better, following the demo. So let me start by representing four fundamental elements in the GIT workflow which are these four: the workspace which is your local directory. The index, also called the stage, and we'll see in a minute what the index is. Then, we have the local repository. We'll also refer to this as HEAD in the, when we explain the different commands and then, the word flow. And finally, the remote repository. If you consider a file in your work space it can be in three possible states. It can be committed which means that the data, the latest changes to the file are safely stored here. It could be modified, which is the case of the file being changed and no, none of these changes being saved to the local repository so locally modified or it can be staged. And stage means that the file is basically part of this index. And what that means, that it's been tagged to be considered in the next commit. And I know that this is not all 100% intuitive, so let's look at that again by considering the actual workflow and let's see what happens when you issue the different commands in git. So the first command that you normally run in case you, you're getting access to a remote repository, is the git clone command. And the git clone, followed by the url for that repository, will create a local copy of the repository in your workspace. And of course, you don't have to do this step if you're creating the repository yourself. The next command that we already saw is the command add. And what the command add does is to add a file that is in the workspace to this index. And we say that after that, the file is staged. So it's marked to be committed, but not yet committed. And here I'm just mentioning this minus u option. If you specify the minus u option, you will also consider deleted files File, but let's not get there for now, we'll talk about that when we do the demo. As I said, if you add the file, it just gets added to this index but is not actually committed, so what you need to do, is to commit the file, so when you execute git commit, all the files that are staged, that are released it here, their changes will be committed to the local repository. So your files, as I was saying, they can be in three states. They will go from the modified state to the stage state when you execute the app. And then from the stage state to the committed state when you perform a GIT Commit. Okay, so at this point your changes are safely stored in the local repository. Notice that you can also perform these two steps at once by executing a Commit -a. So if you have a set of modified files, and all these files are already part of the repository, so they're already known to diversion control system, you can simply execute a commit -a. And what the commit -a command will do, it will stage your file and then commit them. All at once. So it's a convenient shortcut. Of course, as I said, this will not work if the file is a new file. So if a file is a new file, you have to manually add it. Otherwise commit -a will just stage and commit at once. As we discussed when we looked at the diffence between centralized and decentralized version console system. We saw that in the case of the decentralized, there is a local repository which is this one. And then you have to explicitly push your changes to a remote repository, and this is exactly what the git push command does. It pushes your changes that are in the local repository to the remote repository so at this point all of your changes will be visible to anyone who has access to the remote repository. Now, let's see the opposite flow so how does it work when you're actually getting files from the repository instead of committing files to the repository. So the first command I want to mention is the get fetch command and what the get fetch command does is to get files from the remote repositories to your local repository, but not yet to your working directory. And we will see what is the usefullness of doing this operation. Of having the files all in the local respository, but not in your local directory. So, what that means, just to make sure that we're on the same page. Is that you will not see these files when you workspace. You will still have your local files here. So this is sort of a physical distinction. In order to get your data files from the local repositories to your workspace you have to issue another command. Which is the command git merge. Git merge will take the changes in local repository and get them to your local workspace. So at this point your files will be updated. To what is in the remote reposity. Or at least what was in the remote reposity at the time of the fetch. SImilarly to what happened for the add and commit. There's a shortcut which is the command git pull. So in case you want to get the changes directly. To your work space with a single command, you can issue a git pull command and what will happen, is that the changes will get collected from the remote repository and they will go to your local repository and to your work space, at once. So this has the same affect as performing a git fetch and a git merge. So if we can do everything in one command, why, why we want to fetch and berch as two separate operations? So one of the reason is because this allows us to compare files before we actually get the latest version of the files. In particular, I can run the command git diff head to get the difference between my local files, the files in my working directory, and the files in my local repository. So what I can do, I can fetch the files from the remote repository, and once I fetch these files. I can run a git diff head and check what the differences are. And based on the differences decide whether I want to merge or not. So while we are talking about git diff, there is something else that you can use with the diff command. So what you can do, you can run git diff without further specifying head. In this case, what the command tell you is the difference between the files that you have in your work space and the ones that are staged for a commit. So basically, what it will be telling you, is that what you could still add to the stage for the further commit, and that you haven't already. So what local changes will not make it to the next commit, basically. And this you can use, for example, as a sanity check before doing a commit to make sure all the local changes that you have, and that you want to commit, are actually staged and therefore will be considered. So now we will cover all of the commands that we saw here. In our practical demo. But please feel free to refer back to this Git Workflow to get a kind of a high level vision. Or maybe you want to keep it next to you, because this really gives you the overall structure and the overall view of what happens when you run the different commands. And it also helps you visualize The different elements that are relevant when you're using GIT. So the workspace, once more, the index or stage, the local repository, and the remote repository. In this first part of the git demo, we will call it the basics of git. So for example, how to introduce yourself to git, how to create a repository, how to commit changes and get changes from the repository, and so on. So after you installed git you should have the git tool available on the command line, so you can run the command git and, if you just execute git you will get the usage information for git, with the most commonly used git commands. And to find information on any command, you can simply type git help and the name of the command. For example, lets try to write git help init. And that brings up the git manual page for git init, which describes the command, the synopsis, and so on. Now, lets get started with using git by introducing ourselves to git, which is the first thing we need to do. To do that we use the git config command, in particular we are going to write to the git config minus, minus global user dot name. Which means we are telling it our user name. We'll specify our user name which in this case is George P. Burdell. You could also provide your email address in the same way. So you still use the git config --global command. But in this case you will write user.email as the property. And then you'll specify a suitable email address. In this case, the email address of George P. Burdell. We will now look at some commonly used commands that to create and maintain a local repository. Let's first create a new project and call it my project. So, to do that we are simply going to create a directory and then we're going to move into that directory. Now, if we try to call the git status command at this point to see what's the state of my project, of course git doesn't know anything about this project, right? So, you will get an error. It will tell you that, basically, we're not in a git repository. So how do we create a git repository? How do we make this? A Git repository, but we do it by calling git init and the output will tell you that the repository was initialized. If we check the status again, you will see that now Git recognizes the repository and will tell you that there is nothing to commit because, of course, the repository is completely empty. So let's just create a new, empty file. Which we're going to call REAME. So now if you run git status, as you can see, git will tell you there is a file that's called README, but it's untracked. Now what that means is that the file not staged, if you remember our lesson. So what we need to do, we first need to tell git that, you know, this needs to be considered. And the way we do that, is by calling the git at command and then we specify README as the argument for the command. If we call again, Git status. Now, as you can see, Git knows that there is a new file called README, because the file is staged. So Git is aware of the fact that this file has to be committed. So, to commit a file, we simply execute git commit, which will open a text editor, which can be different, depending on what is your environment, and here we need to add a comment to be added to the commit. So here we simply write in Added README file, then we can close and save And this will add the file to the Git repository. The local Git repository of course. At this point, if we ran Git status again to see where we are. You can see that Git tells you that there is nothing to commit. Because of course the only file that we have, is committed to the repository. Now, let's make some changes to our README file. I'm just going to add some text here. Once more, we can run git status, and at this point, git knows about this file. So, it will know that README file has been modified. Remember that before, it was telling you that it was a new file, now it knows that there was a different version in the repository. So something we can do, at this point, for example, is to check the differences. Between this file and the committed one by executing get diff readme and if you look at the output of the get diff command here, you can see that this line, readme file content was added and you'll see that it was added because there's a plus sign before that line. In case of deletion of lines, you'll see a minusm sign there. So at this point, if we want to commit our file, remember that we'll always have to tell git that we want to stage the file before committing it. Otherwise, it will be ignored by the commit operation. So to tell git, that the file has to be staged, we will, can use the usual git add command. But if you remember the lesson, we can also use a shortcut. So you, we don't really have to do this in two steps. We can simply say, git commit -a, and this will tell git to commit all of the files that git knows about, which in this case is only the written file of course. Something else that we can do, is that we can also provide the right away message for the commit, without having to open an editor. So, to do that we can specify the -n option. And at this point a we can just put a in double quotes our content we press enter and as you can see it will notify us that one file was changed and in particular it will also tell you that there was an a insertion again if we run git status you will see that there is nothing else to commit. So now lets imagine that you want to see the version history for your repository. You can do that by running the git log command. So if you run that, it will show you all the different commits For your repository. And each commit has got a commit ID, as you can see here and the one down here is the first commit, where as the one above is the second commit. And as you can see, we'll also show you the comments associated with each commit. And in case you wanted to see the changes introduced by a commit. You can use that git show command, and you can provide the commit ID for the commit that you're interested in. And you don't really need to provide the whole ID, you can provide the first four or more characters. So that's what we're going to do here. So we're going to specify the second commit, and when we execute the command it will show use the changes introduced by that commit. To fetch a repository from a remote server, you can use the git clone command. So you will write git clone and then specify the URL. For the remote repository. Here we are using the SSH protocal and there are different protocals that can be used, so the remote repository can be made available in different ways. As you can see, when you clone the project, the project is cloned into the local directory. If you wanted to import the project under a different name. You could just specify the name that you want for the Local Directory. For example, in this case, myproject2. And, so here you'll get the project in my local work space with the name that I specified. So, let's go inside one of these two projects that have the same content because they're coming from the repository. If you want to see the details of the server you can use the remote command and specify the flag -v. And here we'll show you what is the remote repository now let's go ahead to make some changes to the project for example let's add a file. So I'm just going to create this empty file which I am going to call new file I'm going to add it to my index so that it gets committed. Later on and then I'm going to run git commit to actually commit it to the local repository. And I'm going to specify the comment for the commit right away here from the command line. So when we do that the file gets added to my local repository. And if we want to double check that, we can run git log. And if you look at the last commit at the top, you can see that it's telling me that the new file was added to the repository, showing the comment that I added. But this is just for the local repository, so I need to use the git push command to push it to the remote repository. And at this point, when I run that, my local changes will be committed. To the remote repository. So now let's go to the other copy of the project that we created. The one under directory myproject2. If you remember this project was linked up to the same remote project. But of course, if we run get log here, we don't see this latest change that we made, because we didn't synchronize this local copy with the remote copy. And so we just have these files, the README and ,Five that worked there before. So what we need to do is that we need to pull the changes from the remote repository using git pull, and when we do that, that will actually pull these changes and therefore, create the new files that we created in the other directory. And if we run git log now, you can see that now we have the new entry. The comment at the top, that says this new file was added and of course, this is just an example, so we had two copies of the project on the same machine and for the same user, so the normal users scenario for this, it will be that, each user will have their local copy, but this should have given you the idea of how, git allows you to work on some local file. Commit them and push them to a remote repository and other users to get your changes, do further changes push them as well and then, you know, they will allow you to get their changes, and so on and so forth. So really allows this collaboration between different users and keeping track of all the changes made by the different users. So now let's look at some more advanced concept, which are the concept of branching, and merging. So what branching means is basically is to make a copy, to create a branch of the current project so that we can work on that copy indpendently from the other copy, from the other branch. And then we can decide whether we want to keep, both branches, or we want to merge them at some point. And you can of course have multiple branches, not just two. And the reason why this is particularly useful is because in many cases if you think, about the way we develop software in general, we work with artifacts. We might have the need to create kind of a separate copy of your work space. To do some experiments for example. So you want to change something in the code, you're not really sure it's going to work and you don't want to touch your main copy. So that's the perfect application for branching. If you want to do something like that...you want to experiment or do some modifications that you're not sure about, you will branch your code, you will do the changes...and then if you're happy with the changes, you will merge that branch with the original one, or worse if you're not happy with the changes you will just throw away that branch. So this is just one possible use of branch but it's one of the main uses of that. So in all let's see how that can be done with git. So first of all if you want to see which branches are currently present in your project, you can simply execute git branch, and in this case, you can see that there's only one branch, which is called master, and the star there indicates that this is our current branch. So how do we create a new branch? So we simply run the command git branch and specify a name for the new branch, for example we'll call it newBranch, to make it very explicit. At this point, if we run git branch of course, we will have a new branch plus master will still be our current branch. So if you want to switch to the new branch, we will use the git checkout command and specify the name of the branch that we want to become our current branch. So when we run that, git will tell us that we switched to the new branch. And if we run git branch you will see that now the star is next to newBranch because that's our current branch. There is a shortcut for these two commands. If you run the command git checkout specify the -b flag and then the name of the new branch it will do both things at the same time. It will create the new branch called testing in this case, and then it will switch to new branch and then it will tell you after executing the command. So now if we look at the git branch output, you can see that there is three branches and we are currently on the testing branch. So now let's create a new file and just call it test file, put some content in there, save it, we edit and commit it. And as you can see, now in this current branch, we have our testFile. So now let's switch to a different branch. So let's go back to the master branch using the usual git checkout command. So now if we do an ls, if we check the content of the current directory, we can see that the testFile is not there, because of course, it's not in this branch. so now let's assume that we are happy with the testFile that we created, with the modification that we made on the branch. And so we want to merge that branch with our master branch. To do that we can call the git merge command and we'll specify the branch that we want to merge with the current one. So we will specify testing in this case. That will merge the testing branch with the current branch, which is the master. Which means that now the testfile is in my current working directory, is in my current, Current branch. And if I run the branch, you'll see that the testing branch is obviously still there, so let's assume that we want to delete the testing branch at this point because we don't need it anymore. We could simply execute the branch -d which stands for -delete, specify the name of the branch and this will eliminate that branch as confirmed by running the command git branch or the testing branch no longer shows up. So, something that might happen when you merge a branch is, is that you might have conflicts For example, in case you change the, the same file into different branches. So, let's see an example of that. So, we're going to check which branches we have, so we have two branches, in this case, master and newBranch Our current branch is master. Let's open this file called new file and, add some content there. So now let's commit this changes to the get to the local repository. Now let's switch to the other branch and if you remember we do this by running git checkout and the name of the branch. And at this point we do the same operation here. So we take this file and we change it here to. In this case we have content that reflects the fact that we are. In the new branch just for convenience. At this point, we also can move the file here. The comment here is, of course, that this is the new file in the new branch. So, at this point, what we have here is that we have this file called newfile that has been modified independently both in the master branch and in the new branch. So we have a conflict. Right? So, now, let's switch back to the master branch. So now, let's say we want to merge the two branches. So since we are in master, we want to say that when I merge the new branch into the current one. And when we run that, we get an auto merging conflict. So at this point what we can do, is that we can manually fix the conflict by opening the new file. So the file that was showing the conflict. So here you can see the kind of of information that you get in the conflicted file. So it's telling you basically that there is in the head which is the, the master this conflict. Which is new file in master. Which is the content that we added of course. And then you know, under, you know, the separator you can see the content that was added in the new branch. Which is the contents in new file, in new branch. So basically, what this is showing you is the parts of the file that are conflicting. In this case, we only have one line, is basically the whole file into two versions and you can decide which version you want to keep or how you want to merge in general, the two pieces. So here, let's assume that we want to keep the content from the master. So what we're going to do is we're going to elimate the annotations and we're going to eliminate the additional content. We save this file. So at this point what we need to do is simply to commit the modified file (the merge file) and we do that in the normal way. We call git add, specifying the file, so git add newfile. Then we run git commit newfile, and we specify in the comment for clarity that this is the merged file, so that we performed a merge. And at this point we are done with our merge. Now that we saw some of the git basic functionalities in practice, let's go a step further. If you remember I mentioned before that many of these version control systems are actually integrated into IDE's. So what were going to look at next is what happens if we put together git and eclipse. And the result is egit, or EGit is a plug in for the eclipse IDE that adds git functionality to eclipse. So let's see how that works in practice. So support for git is available in many IDE's including Eclipse. And if you want to get github for Eclipse, you should go to eclipse.github.com and you can download the plugin. So this bring us to the plugin page and you can use the provided URL and directions to install the plugin. In this case we're going to copy this address. So we're going to Eclipse, Help, Install new software. We can click on Add to add a new site from which to get software. We paste the location that we just copied here. And we can give it a descriptive name. In this case I'll just call it Eclipse Git plugin. Then when I click okay, Eclipse will go, and look for plugins. And as you can see, there are two options. We can select both of them, and click on next. You can see that the Eclipse identified a few dependencies. You can click next and accept them. You can accept the terms and conditions for the plug in, and then just finish. And at this point, Eclipse will install the plugin, which might take a little bit of time. So we're just going to speed it up. And when Eclipse is done, you will get this prompt that will tell you that you need to restart Eclipse for the plugin to be actually installed. And at this point, you want to click yes. And when Eclipse restarts. You'll have your plugin. We're going to go to the git repository perspective that we can select here. And when we click OK, you can see that our display will change. And since we don't have any repository yet, we are provided with the possibility of adding an existing local git repository, cloning a git repository or creating a new local git repository. We're going to add an existing local repository. This is the one that we created earlier, so we'll select it and click finish, and you can see that my project is now added to this set of git repositories. Now let's check out the project from the repository by selecting import project. And here you can import something as an existing project, you can use a new project wizard, and in this case I chose the option of importing as a general project. Then I click Next and as you can see, I have the project name up there and I can click Finish. So now, if I go to the resource perspective by clicking here, I can see that the project has been added to my set of projects. And I can see all the files within the project, particularly, if I click on the README, you can see that we have the Readme file that we created before. Same thing for the test file. One thing I can do at this point, it to execute different git commands, perform different git operations by using the team submenu in the contactual menu. And here there are several things I can do including some advanced commands. And just to give it a shot, I am going to try to click show local history, and this shows the history of the file. For example it shows the author and it shows when he was created, when he was authored. Lets make some changes to this file by adding some new content. Okay. I saved the file and now I can see that error that indicates that my file was locally changed. So now if I go to the team menu, you can see that I have the option to add to the index, to stage the file. And now I got this new label that star that shows the files added to the index. And now at this point, I can go to the team menu again and I can actually commit the file by selecting the corresponding entry. This allows me to enter the commit message, exactly in the same way which I could do that from the command line with the textual editor. And after I put the comment there, I can actually commit. And now if we look at the history view, we can see here that we have a new version for the file that we just modified. And we can also see the commit comment. And, at this point, if we had remote repository we could push our changes to that remote repository as well. Again, using the team submenu and the contextual menu. And, speaking of remote repositories, what we are going to see next is how to use GitHub repositories which are remote repositories that are hosted on GitHub. In the interview that we did at the beginning of the class, we talked with John about GitHub, where GitHub is a Git hosting website, and John told you all about it. For this class, we will be using GitHub as our Git hosting. Let's see how GitHub works in practice and let's see some of the common features offered by GitHub. This is what we'll do in the third part of this Git demo. What I'm showing here is the GitHub website and as I said, GitHub is a Git hosting website and you can create an account on GitHub by simply signing up on the website. And because we already have an account that we're simply going to sign in to see what kind of functionality GitHub offers. And we're going to specify our username and password. And as you can see on the GitHub website, you can use this menu up on the right to create a new repository or change the account settings. Let's click on our user profile. And here we can see some statistics for our user. For example, we can see statistic about our contributions and our repositories. So now if we go to the Repositories view, we can create a new repository. We give it a name. Let's call it myrepo. We can provide the description for the repository. If we want, we can initialize the repository by adding a README file. And even though we are not doing it right now, if you can see up here, you can also add a license here on the right and it allows you to choose from a set of predefined licenses. And you can also a .gitignore file, which, in case you don't know what that is, it's a very convenient file that will automatically exclude from the repositories file that should not be added. So if you remember in the lesson we said there are things that you should not add to the repositories. For example, derived files. So here, using this menu, you can pick the type of project that you have. For example, Java project or PHP project or many other kinds of projects. And the GitHub will automatically add that file for you. But let's skip that for now and simply create our repository. And that creates a repository that contains the README file because that's what we decided to do. And it also allows you to edit the README file by clicking on it. It will bring up an editor and here you can write, you know, for example, initial readme for your project. Then you can add your commit message up there and then you can commit the changes to your README file. The site also provides many other features, like, for example, creating issues, pull requests, adding and editing a wiki, and also, you know, defining other characteristics and settings for the repository. Now, if we go to the repository, you can see that we also get the HTTPS link for the repository. So this is the URL that you can use to clone your repository. If you remember, with a git clone command, that's the URL that you can specify. So let's try to do that and clone that repository. So we're going to copy this URL. To do that, we're going to execute git clone and specify the URL that we just copied. And you can see that the project was created, was cloned locally. And if we go under myrepo, which is the name of the repository, you can see that the README file that we created on GitHub is here. So if we create a new file, which we're going to call again, newFile just to be clear. And then we can add it, commit it, specifying as usual a commit message. So at this point, we can push our locked out changes to the remote GitHub repository. And because the GitHub repository is password protected, we have to specify our login and password. And of course, if you pass the wrong password, GitHub is not going to let you in. So let's try again. Let's try to get the password right this time. I'm going to specify again, my login and my password. At this point, the push is successful and my changes are actually pushed to the master, which is the GitHub repository. To double check that, let's go back to the GitHub repository and as you can see, that the file that we added, newFile, is there as expected. And of course, there's many more things that you can do on the GitHub website, so I strongly encourage you to go and try out things. But the key message here is that the GitHub is a Git hosting website where you can get an account and create your remote repositories. Now that we are done with our demo, I just want to go through a quick GIT recap to remind you of the main commands that we saw, and what they do. And you can also use these as sort of a reference when you work with GIT. And by the way, if you look around and you do a search, you can see that there's tons of examples on the web of GIT type tutorials, videos, examples, manuals. So feel free to explore. And I'm actually going to put some references to tutorials and videos that I found particularly useful in the notes for the class. So, let me start by recapping some of the operations that we can perform on local repositories. I'm just going to list them here and go through them by separating them into three main categories. The first one is commands that, to create a repository and notice that not all of these are git commands, that for example, to create the repository, we would normally want to. Create a directory, which is exactly what we did in our demo. We want to go to that directory and then execute the git init statement, which initializes that directory as a git repository. The second category includes commands that we'll use to modify the content of the repository. We saw that we can use git add to add a specific file or a complete directory to our index. So to the list of files that will be committed, that will be considered in the next commit. Then we can use commit to actually commit the changes that we made to those files to our local repository, and we can also use git move and git rm or git remove to move files around and to remove files. Finally, the third category is the category of commands that we can use to inspect the concrete repository. And this set includes git log, that we can use to see the log of the repository, git status, that can give us important information about the status of the file center repository. Git diff, that we can use to see the differences between for example, our local files. And the remote files. And finally git show, that will show us information about our last commit. What we committed, what were the changes and so on. And again, we saw most or all of these commands in our demo. So let me also remind you of a possible workflow. Which again, we already saw but it's always good to go through it once more. And remember that this is just an example. It's just a possible workflow. You can do many different things, you can have many different workflows with git. This is just up to illustrate some of the things that you can do. So, you might do some local editing. Execute git status to see what files you changed. Then you might run a git diff on the files to see what are these changes. And then you can run git commit -a to commit your changes. And in case you want to specify the commit message right away without having to go through an editor, you can also add the -m parameter and specify the message here on the same line. SImilarly, let's go through some commands that you can run on remote repositories. First command is the command to copy a repository, which is git clone in which you get a remote repository and you make a lot of copy in your working directory. The repository can be specified as a URL. It can be a local file, it can be specified using the HTTP or the SSH protocol, and there's also other ways to do it. This creates a complete local copy of the repository, as it says, and links it to the remote repository, which is what is called the origin. And if you want, you could also actually link to the repository, later. Then the normal way of receiving changes from a repository is to perform a git pull command. And we saw that you can also perform the same operation through two commands, get fetch and git merge. In case you want to inspect the changes before actually merging them, before actually getting them in your local copy. And if you want to send changes that you have in your local repository to a remote repository, you will use the git push command. In the previous lesson we discussed black box testing, which is the testing performed based on a description of the software, but without considering any of software's internal details. In this lesson, we will discuss the counterpart of black box testing, which is called unsurprisingly white box testing or structural testing. And just like we did for black box testing, we will cover the main characteristics of white box testing and this casts the most commonly used white box testing techniques. We will conclude the lesson with the discussion of the main strengths and limitations of white box testing. So that you will know, when to use it? How to use it? And what to expect from it? In the last lesson, we talked about black-box testing or functional testing, which is the kind of testing that you perform when you just look at the description of the software. Today we're going to cover white-box testing, which is the kind of testing that we perform when we open up the box. We look inside the program, and we actually test it based on its code. And there is one basic assumption behind the idea of white-box testing, which is a very intuitive one, and the assumption is that executing the faulty statement is a necessary condition for revealing a fault. In other words, if there is a bug in the program there is no way were going to be able to find this bug or this fault, if we don't execute the statement that contains it. Which makes a lot of sense. As we did for black-box testing, we're going to start by summarizing what are the main advantages of white-box testing. The main advantage is that it's based on the code, and as such, the quality of white-box testing can be measured objectively. And what I mean here by objectively is that if you think about black-box testing In many cases, there were subjective decisions, there were had to be made in order to define tests in a black-box fashion. In the case of white-box testing, because everything is based on the quota, we don't have to make such subjective decisions. And similarly, because white-box testing is based on the code, it can be measured automatically. So we can build tools and actually there are tools, and there's plenty of tools, that can be measured, the level of white-box testing can be achieved in a fully automated way. And we're going to see some of them in the course of the class. Another advantage of white-box testing is that it can be used to compare test suites. So if you have two alternative sets of tests that you can use to assess the quality of your software, white-box testing techniques can tell you which one of these two test suites is likely to be more effective in testing your code. And finally, white-box testing allows for covering the coded behavior of the software. What that means is that if there is some mistake in the code and is not obvious by looking at the specification of the code, white box testing might be able to catch it, because it tries to exercise the code. There's many different kinds of white box testing, there are control flow based techniques, data flow based techniques, and fault based techniques. And for each one of these family of techniques there are many variations. So this field is very, very broad. In this lesson we will talk about white-box testing by focusing mainly on control-flow based testing techniques. So let's start our lesson on white docs testing by considering again the program PrintSum. If you remember, this is the same program that we used when we were talking about black box testing. It's the program that takes two integers, A and B, and produces, as a result, the sum of the two. And when we were looking at this problem in the context of black box testing, we did not look at implementation. But that's exactly what we're going to do now. So we're going to open the box and look at how the code is implemented. And as you can see, the programmer was kind of creative. Because instead of just adding the two numbers and printing them, he or she also decided to print them in a specific color depending on whether they were positive numbers or negative numbers. So positive results are printed in red and negative results are printed in blue. And as you can see by looking at the code we can see some interesting cases that we might want to test. For instance you can see that there are two decisions made here. So we might decide that this is an interesting case and therefore we want to test it. Similarly we might look at this other case and we might also decide that this is another interesting case and therefore we want to test this one as well. So let's discuss this in a slightly more formal way by introducing the concept of coverage criteria which are really the essence of why box testing. First of all coverage criteria are defined in terms of test requirements where test requirements are the elements, the entities in the code that we need to exercise. That we need to execute in order to satisfy the criteria. And we'll see plenty of examples of that. And normally, when I apply a coverage criterion, my result is a set of test specifications. And we already saw test specifications. Those are basically descriptions, specifications, of how the tests should be in order to satisfy the requirements. And they also result in actual test cases, which are instantiations of the test specifications. And again this is exactly analogous to what we saw when we were talking about the black box testing. So let's see what this means by going back to our example. A minute ago, we looked at the print sum code and we identified two interesting cases for our code. And those are exactly our test requirements. So we have a first test requirement here, which is the execution of this particular statement and a second requirement here and this one corresponds to the execution of this other statement. So for this example there are two things that we need to do in order to satisfy our coverage requirements. Execute this statement and execute this statement. Now let's see if we are all on the same page on the concept of testing specifications, and we're going to do that through a quiz. What I would like for you to do is to tell me, what are some possible test specifications that will satisfy the requirements that we just saw? And I want you to express this specification in terms of constraints on the inputs. Which means, what constraints should the input satisfy in order for this statement to be executed, and this statement to be executed, and you can write your answer here in these two slots. To satisfy our first requirements, we need to find an input that causes the execution of this statement. Because this statement is executed only when result is greater than zero, our test requirement is that a plus b must be greater than 0. When this is satisfied, this statement is executed therefore any test case that implements this specification will cause the execution of this statement. Similarly if we want to cover this statement which is our second requirement we need to have a result that is less than 0. Again, the result is equal to a plus b, so all we need to do is find the test case such that a plus b is less than 0. So this is pretty straight forward. So, now that we have our test specifications. Test specification number one that says that a plus b must be greater than zero. And test specification number two, for which a plus b must be less than zero. I'd like to do another small quiz and ask you to write some test cases that will implement these specifications. And I want you to write the test cases in this format. I want you to specify for each one of the test cases, what is the value of a that you need to use. What is the value of b that you need to use. And since a test case, I like to remind you, is not just a set of inputs. But is the set of inputs plus expected output? I also want you to specify, what is the expected output for these test cases? And in particular, since we have two characteristics of the output, one is the color of the output and the other one is the actual value. I want you to specify for each test case, what is the expected output color and what is the expected value? In this case like in many other cases, there's not just a single right answer because you can build many test cases that will satisfy this test specification. So for example, we could pick value 3 for a and value 9 for b. Those satisfy the specification because a plus b is equal to 12 and therefore is greater than 0, and therefore this is a test case that implements this test specification. And in terms of results, what we expect to see is in the case of a result greater than 0, the caller should be red, and the upper value should be 12. And obviously for this test specification, we just need to pick two inputs such that the sum of the two inputs is less than 0. So for example, we could pick minus 5 and minus 8. The output color in this case is going to be blue, and the output value is going to be minus 13. So, what we just saw is basically how we can go from a piece of code to a set of requirements, which are the interesting aspects of the code that we want to exercise. How we can satisfy the requirements by finding the right test specifications, and then how we can initiate the test specifications into actual test cases. And this is what we will do in general when doing white books testing. And we'll do things likely different way, depending on the specific criteria that we are considering. Now that we saw this overview of white-box testing, I'd like to start talking about specific coverage criterion. And I'm going to start with the first one, which is Statement Coverage. This criterion is going to be characterized by two aspects, the first one is which are the Test requirements for the criteria and the second one is how we measure Coverage for that criteria. In the case of statement coverage, these test requirements are all the statements in the program. So this is the basic, the first the, the simplest coverage criteria in the white-box arena. Let me remind you the assumption that we made at the beginning. White-box testing is based on the assumption that if there isn't a faulty element in the code, we need to exercise it. We need to execute it, in order to find the fault. And that's exactly what statement coverage does. If there is a statement that is faulty in the code, we need to exercise it, in order to find the fault. And therefore, a good measure of how well we exercise the code, is the ratio of the number of executed statements. So all the statements that my test cases executed, to the total number of statements in the program. The higher this number, the better I exercise my code. And we can also look at coverage criterion in terms of questions. So what is the questions they were trying to answer when we look at a specific set of test cases and we assess the statement coverage that they achieved. And the question is whether each statement in the program has been executed. So, statement coverage is satisfied when all the statements in the program have been executed. And we can satisfy to different degrees and the degrees to which it's satisfied is measured by this value. So now let's go ahead and measure statement coverage on our printSum example. What I'm going to show down here is this progress bar in which we show the amount of coverage, the percentage of coverage achieved. So what this means is that the, if I get to this point I've covered 25% of the statements in the code. And my goal is to get up here to cover all the statements in the code. We have two test cases for this code. The first one that we just saw, consists of the inputs a equal to 3 and b equal to 9, and the second one has the inputs a is equal to minus 5 and b is equal to minus 8. So now let's see what happens when we run this test case. When we run this test case, I'm going to show you by highlighting in the code the parts that we cover when we start executing the code. We cover the first statement, then we always execute the second statement, which computes the result, we continue the execution, we get to the if statement. If the result is greater than zero, in this case our result is 12 because we are working with the inputs 3 and 9, and therefore we execute the true part of the if, we execute the statement. And at this point, we just jump to the end. Because we do not execute the else part of the statement, since we have executed a true one, and therefore, we cover this final statement. So at the end of the execution of this test case, we cover one, two, three, four, five statement out of seven which is roughly speaking 71%. So we can mark in here that we more or less got to 71% of coverage for this code. Now let's look at what happens when we execute test case number two. In this case again, we execute the first statement, the second statement, the third statement. In this case though, the first statement, when it evaluates the value of result, it sees that the result is not greater than zero because our inputs are minus five and minus eight. Therefore, you will execute line number five. And because the result is less than zero, you will also execute line number six. So, at this point, all of the statements in our code are executed and therefore, we achieved a 100% statement coverage, which was our goal. Before looking at other kinds of coverage, let's see how our statement coverage is used in practice. First of all, statement coverage is the most used kind of coverage criterion in industry. Normally for company that uses statement coverage, the typical coverage target is 80-90%, which mean the outcome of the test should be such that 80-90% of the statements are exercised at the end of testing. So at this point, you might be wondering, why don't we just shoot for 100%? Why don't we try to cover all of the code? We just saw that we could do it. And so I'm going to ask you the same question. so, I would like to hear from you. Why do you think that we don't aim normally at 100 % college but, slightly less than that and I want you to put your answer right here. To get the answer to this question, I'm going to ask you to be a little patient, and to wait until the end of the lesson. Because there are a couple of more topics that I want to cover, before I actually get in to this. Nevertheless, I wanted to ask you right away, because I wanted you to think about this, before you see the rest of the lesson. Let's look at the code for PrintSum in a slightly different way by making something explicit. If we go through the code, we can see that the, the code does something in that case, if the result greater then zero, does something else if the result is not greater than zero but is less than zero, and otherwise in the case in which neither of these two conditions is true. Nothing really happens. So we're going to make that explicit, we're going to say here, otherwise do nothing, which is exactly our problem, the code does nothing, in this case where it should do something. So now, let's look again in our test cases, let's consider the first one, and I'm going to go a little faster in this case, because we already saw what happens If we execute the first test case, we get to this point, we execute this statement, and then we just jump to the end, as we saw. Now we, if we execute the second test case, we do the same, we get to the else statement, the condition for the if is true, and therefore we execute this statement. And we never reached this point for either of the test cases. So how can we express this? In order to do that, I'm going to introduce a very useful concept. The concept of control flow graphs. The control flow graphs is just a representation for the code that is very convenient when we run our reason about the code and its structure. And it's a fairly simple one that represents statement with notes and the flow of control within the code with edges. So here's an example of control flow graph for this code. There is the entry point of the code right here, then our statement in which we assign the result of A plus B to variable result. Our if statement and as you can see the if statement it's got two branches coming out of it, because based on the outcome of this predicate we will go one way or the other. In fact normally what we do, we will label this edges accordingly. So for example, here we will say that this is the label to be executed when the predicate is true. And this is the label that is executed when the predicate is false. Now, at this point, similar thing, statement five which corresponds with this one, we have another if statement and if that statement is true, then we get to this point and if it's false, we get to this point. So as you can see, this graph represents my code, in a much more intuitive way, because I can see right away where the control flows, while I execute the code. So we're going to use this representation to introduce further coverage criteria. So now that we know what the CFG is, let's see how we can get into a count, that else part, that is missing in our example code by introducing a new kind of coverage. Branch coverage. As usual, I'm going to describe branch coverage in terms of test requirements and coverage measure. So starting from test requirements. The test requirement for branch coverage are the branches in the program. In other words, the goal of branch coverage is to execute all of the branches in the program. The coverage measure is defined accordingly as the number of branches executed by my test cases over the total number of branches in the program. And let me remind you that branches are the outgoing edges from a decision point. Therefore, an if statement, a switch statement, a while statement. Any note in the c of g that has got more than one outgoing edge. Those edges are called branches. So let's look at that using our example. So now we're looking back at our printSum example. And in addition to the code, I also want to represent the CFG for the program. So let's start by looking at how many branches we have in our code. Which means how many test requirements we have. And in this case there are two decision points. The first one that corresponds to the first if, and the second one that corresponds to the second if. So we have one, two, three, and four branches. So now, let's bring back our current set of test cases. We had two test cases. The one's that, with which we achieved a 100% statement coverage. And let's see what happens in terms of branch coverage when we run these test cases. I start from the first one, when we execute it, we follow the code, we get to this decision point because the predicate in the if statement is true. We follow the true branch, therefore we get here and then, we exit from the program. So, in this case, we covered one of the branches, which means that we got to 25% coverage. Now when we run the second test case, again we follow this path. We get to this, the first if and in this case the predicate of the if is false. Therefore, we go this way. We reach the second predicate, the second if. The result is true, so we follow the true branch and therefore, we cover these additional two branches. So at this point, we are at 75% branch coverage. So what happens is that we're missing this branch. For now, the inputs that we consider, this branch is executed. Therefore, we need to add an additional test case. And that this case that we need, is one for which this predicate is false and this predicate is false. The simplest possibility in this case is the test case for which A is equal to 0 and B is equal to 0. If we execute this test case, our execution again followed this path, follows the fourth branch here. And in this case, because result is not less than zero either, will follow this branch as well. And therefore, we will reach our 100% branch coverage. And this covered the problem. Something that I would like to clarify before we move to the next topic, is that 100% coverage does not provide any guarantee of finding the problems in the code. All we saw so far is the fact that by testing more thoroughly we have more chances of finding a problem in the code. But it doesn't matter which kind of coverage we utilize, and how much coverage we achieve. There's always a chance that we might miss something. And I will get back to this later on in the lesson. I just mentioned the fact that we tested more fully when we went from statement coverage to branch coverage. What does that mean exactly? To explain that, I'm going to introduce the concept of test criteria subsumption. One test criteria subsumes another criteria when all the tests widths that satisfy that criteria will also satisfy the other one. So let me show you that with statement and branch coverage. If we identify a test width that achieves 100% branch coverage, the same test width will also achieve, necessarily, 100% statement coverage. That's what happened for our example, and also what happens in general, because branch coverage is a stronger criteria than statement coverage. There is no way to cover all the branches without covering all the statements. It is not true that any test results satisfies statement coverage will also satisfy branch coverage. And, in fact, we just saw a counter example. When we look at the printSum code. We had a test where there was achieving 100% statement coverage and was not achieving 100% branch coverage. Therefore, in this case we have a substantial relation in this direction. Branch coverage, subsumes statement coverage. What it also means is that normally, or in general, it is more expensive to achieve branch coverage than achieve statement coverage, because achieving branch coverage requires the generation of a larger number of test cases. So what this relation means is that branch coverage is stronger than statement coverage but also more expensive. What I'm going to do next is to introduce a few additional coverage criteria using a slightly more complex example, but still a pretty simple one. What I'm showing here is a program that reads two real numbers, x and y. And then, if x is equal to 0 or y is greater than 0, it computes y as y divided by x. Otherwise, it computes x as y plus 2, then it writes the value of x, the value of y, and it terminates. Let's also introduce a CFG for the program. As you can see, the CFG represents the statements in the code and their control flow. And in this case, I made explicit over the branches what are the conditions under which those branches are taken to make it simpler to look at the example. Let's assume that we have two tests for this code that are shown here. For the first one, the inputs are 5 and 5. For the second one, 5 and minus 5. If we consider branch coverage for this code and we consider the two test cases, for the first one this condition is true. Because x is not equal to 0 but y is greater than 0. And therefore, we will follow this tree branch. For the second one, the condition is false. Because x is not equal to 0 and y is not greater than 0. Therefore, the negation of it is true and we will follow this branch. In other words, these two test cases achieve 100% branch coverage on this code. If we look at the code though, we can see that there is the possibility of making this code fail. Consider this statement, if x is equal to 0, we could have a division by 0. However, these two test cases, despite the fact that they achieved 100% branch coverage, will not rebuild this problem. So how can we be more thorough? I'll let you think about it for a second, so think about how can we test more thoroughly, in a more complete way, this code. So, in a way that goes beyond branch coverage. And the answer is that we can make each condition true and false. Instead of just considering the whole predicate here. And that's exactly what is required by the next criteria that we're going to consider which is condition coverage. We're going to define it as usual in terms of test requirements and coverage measure. In this case, the test requirements for condition coverage are the individual conditions in the program. So we want each condition in the program to be both true and false first time execution. So the way in which we can measure that is by measuring the number of conditions that were both true and false when we executed our tests over the total number of conditions. And that gives us the percentage of coverage that we achieved for condition coverage. Again, if you want to look at this criteria in the form of a question. The question would be, has each boolean sub-expression, which means every condition in every predicate, evaluated both to true and false when we run our tests. So now that we introduced an additional criterion, let's have a quiz to see whether everybody understood the concept of subsumption. We know that branch coverage subsumes statement coverage, but what about condition coverage? Does it subsume branch coverage? Is it the case that all of the test which satisfy condition coverage will also satisfy branch coverage? Think about it, and answer either yes or no. In this case, the answer is no, and I'm going to show you an example of this in a minute. Let's go back to our test criteria subsumption representation, where we already had branch coverage and statement coverage. In this case, if we want to add condition coverage to this page, we have to put it here on this side, with no relationship of subsumption with either branch coverage or statement coverage, which means that the criteria are not comparable. So now let's consider again our last example, and let's use a different test with this time. We still have two tests, but the first one has x is equal to 0 and y is equal to minus 5. And the second one, x is equal to 5 and y is equal to 5 as well. Let's see what happens in terms of condition coverage, when we run these tests. If we look at the first condition, x is equal to 0. It is both true, for the first test case, and false for the second one. As for the second condition, y greater than 0, it is false for the first test case and true for the second one. Therefore we've achieved a 100% condition coverage with these two tests. But what about branch coverage? If we consider the whole predicate, instead of just the individual conditions, let's see what happens for the two test cases. If we look at the first one, because x is equal to 0, the overall predicate is true. As for the second one, because the second condition is true, the overall predicate is true. In other words, despite the fact that we're exercising all the possible values for the two conditions, the overall predicate is always true. And therefore, we're covering only one of the two branches. So our coverage will be 50%. This is the reason why normally the two criteria that we just saw, decision coverage, and condition coverage are considered together. And the resulting criterion is called branch and condition coverage, or also decision and condition coverage. At this point the test requirements and the coverage measure should be pretty straight forward, because they're just considering the two criteria together. As far as the requirements are concerned, they include all the branches and individual conditions in the program. Where as the coverage measure is computed considering both coverage measures, both branch coverage and condition coverage. Let's have another quick quiz about Subsumption. If we consider Branch and Condition Coverage, does it subsume Branch Coverage, and therefore Statement Coverage? Or in other words, does branch and condition coverage imply branch coverage? Answer yes, or no. In this case it should be clear that the answer is yes, because branch and condition coverage actually includes branch coverage. Therefore, by definition, any test rate that satisfies branch and condition coverage will necessarily satisfy branch coverage. So we can now update our test criteria subsumption. We start from this situation in which there are no relationship between condition coverage, branch coverage and statement coverage. And when we add branch and condition coverage, we can mark the fact that branch and condition coverage subsumes branch coverage and also subsumes condition coverage, for the same reason. Therefore, this is a stronger criterion than both branch coverage and condition coverage, and of course indirectly also soft statement coverage. So once more, to make sure we are all on the same page, if I develop a test rate that satisfies branch and condition coverage, the same test will satisfy also branch coverage, statement coverage and condition coverage, necessarily. So let's have another quiz using the example that we just used. This one is about achieving 100% branch and condition coverage. So let me bring back the two tests cases that we just saw, and as we saw a few minutes ago, these tests cases do not achieve 100% branch and condition coverage despite the fact that they achieve 100% condition coverage. So both conditions are both true and false, for these test cases. So what I want you to do is to add a test case, to achieve 100% branch and condition coverages. So specify the test case by writing here the value for x, and the value for y. Obviously there are many possible tests that we can use to reach 100% branch and condition coverage. So I'm just going to show a possible one, which is x equal to 3 and y is equal to negative 2. If we specify this as case, you can see that the overall condition is false, because neither x is equal to 0 nor y is greater than 0. Therefore we will follow the false, false branch, and achieve 100% branch and condition coverage for this code. And we might require to be even more thorough, that all the combinations of our conditions inside each decision, inside each predicate, are tested. Which is what is called, multiple condition coverage. But because of the way this criterion is defined, it is combinatorial, becuse you have to consider all the possible combinations of conditions. And therefore it's extremely expensive, to the point of being impractical. So instead of defining that criterion, we're going to find another one which finds a good trade off between thoroughness of the tests and their cost. And this criterion is called Modified Condition/Decision Coverage, also called MC/DC. This criterion is very important because it is often required for safety critical applications. For example, the FAA, the Federal Aviation Administration, requires for all the software that runs on commercial airplanes to be tested according to the Modified Condition/Decision Coverage. So what is the key idea behind the MC/DC criterion? It is to test only the important combinations of conditions instead of all of them, and limit the testing cost by excluding the other combinations. And the way in which it works is by extending branch and decision coverage with the requirement that each condition should affect the decision outcome independently. So let's see what this means with an example that will also show you how you can reduce the number of combinations in this way. I am going to show you an example of how MC/DC works using this predicate which consists of three conditions. a, b, and c, which are all in and, so the overall predicate is a and b and c. The first thing I'm going to do is to show you how many test cases we will need to satisfy the multiple condition coverage for this simple predicate. Which means, how many test cases we will need to test all the possible combinations of true and false values for these conditions. So I'm going to populate this table. And as you can see, at the end we have eight test cases. Each test case tests a different combination of values for a, b, and c. I'm also showing, for each test case, the outcome of the overall predicate. So, for example, if we look at the first one, the first test case, will be such that a is true, b is true, and c is true. And therefore, the overall outcome of the predicate is true. Now lets consider the first condition, a. As I said a minute ago, what we want to test are the important combination. Which are the comibatinos in which a single condition independently effects the outcome of the overall predicate. So if we consider a and we look at this possible set of this cases. Let's try to find two test cases such that the only difference between the two test cases is the value of a, and the overall outcome of the predicate is different. If we look at the table, we can see that this is true for test cases one and five. If we look at these two cases, we can see that the overall of the predicate in the two cases is true and false, and that the only difference between the value of the conditions in the value of a. So these test cases satisfy exactly what we wanted. There are two test cases in which the value of a independently decides the overall value of the predicate. What we do, therefore, is to add these first two test cases to our set of tests down here. Now let's focus on b and let's try to find two test cases such that the value of b is the only value that changes between the two test cases, but the overall value of the predicate is different, the same thing we did for a. And in this case, we can see that if we select test case number one, and test case number three, we have exactly that situation. b is true in the first case, false in the second one, a and c don't change, but the overall value of the predicate changes. And now you can notice something else. That even though we selected two test cases, tested two values, one we already had. So, we only need three test cases overall to test a and b according to MC/DC. Now, let's look at our last condition, c. At this point, we know the game, so we just have to look for two test cases that satisfy our requirements. And in this case, one and two are suitable candidates. And once more, because we already have one, we just have to add two to our list. So as you can see from this example, we went from having eight test cases needed to cover all the possible combinations of conditions to only four test cases to satisfy the MC/DC criteria. So let's see where MC/DC stands in our substantion hierarchy. This is what we had so far in the hierarchy and this is where the MC/DC criterion will stand. MC/DC criterion is stronger than branch and condition coverage. Why? Because it requires every single condition to be true and false. And therefore, this section was a condition coverage criteria. And it also requires every predicate to be true and false and therefore, this section is branch coverage. And in addition, it's got the additional requirements that the true and false values, all the conditions have to also decide the overall value of the predicate. So it's stronger. Which is more thorough than branch and condition coverage and, as usual, also stronger than branch coverage, statement coverage, and condition coverage. As I mentioned at the beginning of the class, there are many, many, many, white box criteria. And we're not going to have time to cover them all. So what I like to do now is just to give you the flavor, of some other criteria by just mentioning them, and saying a couple of things, about the way they work. And the first one I want to mention is path coverage. And in path coverage, the test requirements are all the paths in the program. So what that means is that to satisfy this criteria, we need to generate enough test cases such that all the paths in my program are covered. As you can imagine this is incredibly expensive because any nontrivial program has got a virtual infinite number of paths and therefore we will need a virtual infinite number of test cases to satisfy the path coverage criteria. Another family of criteria I want to mention are data-flow coverage criteria and in data-flow coverage criteria, the focus shifts from the coverage of individual elements in the code to the coverage of pairs of elements. And in particular the coverage of Statements, in which the content of some memory locations modified, and statements in which the content of the same memory location is used. So in this way, our test will exercise the assignments of values to memory, and the usage of those assignments,. Finally, I want to mention mutation coverage. And this is a fairly different and new idea, so the key concept in mutation coverage is that we want to evaluate the goodness of our test by modifying the code. For example here in this small I'm, I'm showing that I might change it. An if statement from K greater than 9, to K greater than or equal to 9. And the reason why I want to do that, is that if I generate enough mutants, enough variation of my program, then I can use them to assess how good are my tests at distinguishing the original program and the mutants. And because I'm changing the code based on the way I expect to introduce errors in the code, the more my test can identify mutants, the better they are at identifying real faults. This is a very high level [UNKNOWN], but just to give you the intuition and the idea behind these criteria, and I'm going to provide as usual, additional pointers to go in more depth on these topics in the notes of the class. So now, let's go back to our test criteria subsumption hierarchy, and see how all of these criteria fit together in this context. Let me start with multiple condition coverage. As we saw, MC/DC is sort of as [UNKNOWN] way of doing multiple condition coverage in the sense that it doesn't consider all the combinations, but only the ones that are more likely to matter. And as such, MC/DC exercises a subset of the elements of the multiple condition coverage exercises. And therefore, multiple condition coverage is more thorough than MC/DC and subsumption, and it's also as we saw incredibly more expensive. Path coverage subsumes branch coverage, because if I cover all of the paths in the code, I necessarily cover all the branches. However, it doesn't subsume multiple condition coverage, MC/CD, or branch and condition coverage. Because this criteria, have additional requirements involving the conditions of the predicate that path coverage does not have. As for data-flow coverage criteria and mutation coverage criteria, there really no relation with the other criteria, because they look at different aspects, of the code. So they're not really comparable, and therefore we're just going to put them on the side, without any relationship with the other ones. The reason why I want to represent them all anyways is because I want to make an important distinction between these different criteria. And that's the distinction between practical criteria, which are criteria that are actually not too expansive to be used in real scenarios. And theoretical criteria, which are criteria that are useful in theory from the conceptual standpoint, but they're not really applicable in practice because they're too expansive, because they require basically too many test cases to be satisfied. White box testing, in general, and coverage criteria in particular, involve some subtle concepts, so before I conclude this lesson, I want to have a few more quizzes to make sure that we all understand these concepts. The first one involves a very simple piece of code, a straight line of code, three statements, in which we simply read an integer and then prints 10 divided by the value of that integer minus 3. Now, let's imagine that we have a test where there consists of three test cases for this code, and what I'm showing in the test cases is the input and the expected output. So for the first one, the input is 1, and I expect the output to be minus 5. For the second one, the input is minus 1, I'm expecting to have 2.5. And for the third one, the input is 0, and I'm expecting to have minus 3.3333 as the result. Now the first question I want to ask, is if we considered this test suite, and we run it on the code, does it achieve path coverage? And remember that path coverage is one of the strongest coverage criteria that we saw. And the answer in this case is clearly yes. In fact, any input will really achieve path coverage for this code because there is only one path in the code. But now want to ask a different question which is, does this test reveal the fault at line three? Clearly, here there is a possible problem, because if we pass the right input, we can have a division by zero. Is that revealed if we run this test within the code? Yes or no? And the answer is no. So even path coverage's stronger criteria that we saw is not enough to reveal this problem. And why is that? So let me go back to a concept that I mentioned in a previous lesson, the cost of exhaustive testing. Exhaustive testing is really the only way in which we can exercise all of the possible behaviors of a program. So we can say even though it might sound like topology, that only exhaustive testing is exhausted. All the coverage criteria that we saw are just process and just approximation of a complete test. So test is a best effort kind of activity. Coverage criteria help you assess how well you tested but once more, test can only reveal issues, can only reveal problems. You can never show the absence of problems. And that's something is important to remember when we do testing. Now let's do another quiz considering a slightly different piece of code. In this case we have five layers of code. We have a variable i, a variable j. Variable j is read from the input. And then based on this predicate, we either print the value of i or simply exit. And what I want to know from you is whether you can create a test suite to achieve statement coverage for this simple piece of code. Yes or no? And the answer in this case is no. And the reason for this is because this code is unreachable. This is dead code because no matter the value of j, this condition will always be false because i will always be 0. And notice that this is a small example, but another important truth is that any non-trivial program contains dead or unreachable code, code that no matter how well we test our system, we will never be able to exercise. Why is that? Various reasons. For example, defensive programming or, for example, developing for future releases. So there might be pieces of code that are added, but they're still not activated. They're still not invoked by any other part of the code because of modifications to the code. There are some parts that were executed before and in the new version of the program, they are no longer exercised. They are no longer executable. But they still remain in the code base. And this is a very, very normal situation for this reason and many more. And this is an important concept because this affects the very meaning of coverage measures. If there is some unreachable code, we will never be able to reach 100% code coverage. And in fact, if you remember, at the beginning of the lesson, we discussed this concept and asked you why you think that, in the industry, the target for coverage is not 100% but less that that. And that's the answer, to account for the fact that there are infeasibility problems that I have to take into account when I test the code, infeasible paths, unexecutable statements, conditions that can never be true, and so on. So most criteria, if not all, are affected, and we need to take that into account when we try to achieve a given coverage target. Now let me conclude the lesson by summarizing a few important aspects of white-box testing. The first important aspect is that white-box testing works on a formal model. The code itself are models derived from the code. So when we do white-box testing, we don't need to make subjective decision, for example, on the level of obstruction of our models. Normally, we simply represent what's there. And so what we will obtain are objective, results and objective measures. As I also said at the beginning, coverage criteria allows us to compare different test suites, different sets of tests, because I can measure the coverage achieved by one test suite and by the other, and then decide which one to use based on this measure. And again, remember, these measures aren't perfect, but they at least give you an objective number, an objective measure of the likely effectiveness of your tests. So even though achieving 100% coverage does not mean that you identify all the problems in the code for sure. If your level of coverage is 10%, for example, for stemen coverage. That means that you haven't exercised 90% of your code, and therefore the trouble is in a piece of software that is inadequately tested and likely to be of inadequate quality. We also saw that there are two broad classes of coverage criteria, practical criteria that we can actually use, and theoretical criteria that are interesting from a conceptual standpoint, but that they are totally impractical. They are too expensive to be used on real world software. And finally, as we also said at the beginning, one of the great things about white box testing and coverage criteria, is that they are fully automatable. There are tools that can take your code, instrument it automatically. And when you run your test cases, they will tell you, what is the level of coverage that you achieve with your test at no cost for you. So there's really no reason not to measure coverage of your code.