Hello. My name is Kunal, and in this course, we will answer one big question Android developers answer all the time, and that question is, how do you use blank in Android? For instance, how do you use radio buttons, or grids, or maps? And a whole bunch of different components that are available in Android. Now if you think about it, developers encountered this question all the time. And in response what they will do, is that they will conduct a search on the internet, read something like a blog or some stack overflow page on how you do something in Android. And then they will try that in their app. We will follow a similar approach in this course. To be successful, you will need the basics of Android programming. We took those in the Android for beginners course. This is where, among other things, we made the happy birthday app and the Just Java app. You may also recall that in the Android For Beginners course, we learned about buttons and check boxes. In this course, we will work with toggle buttons, radio buttons, spinners, and much more. Here is how this course is going to work. For each of these interface elements that you see on the screen here, we found the best resource on the Internet that teaches you how to use them in your app. So for toggle buttons, we will link you to a tutorial. For radio buttons, we'll do the same thing. And trust us, these links are good. We know that because we've used them ourselves. Here's what we want you to do. At the end of this video, you will see a tutorial on how to use toggle buttons in Android. Follow the instructions in that tutorial, and learn how to implement toggle buttons in an app that you build from scratch. Once you're done with that, move on to the tutorial for radio buttons and so on so forth. Also, each one of these links that you're about to see will take you about 30 to 60 minutes to learn. Once you do a few of these, you will have mastered the process experienced Android developers follow every single day. Let's begin. All right, so we got some practice in how to use a bunch of different user interface controls, like how toggle buttons work in Android. Let's keep building on that. This section is all about menus. We will practice how to make an options menu. You've probably accessed it previously on your Android phone by tapping the three dots on the top bar. We will also learn how to make a pop-up menu and a few other things. So here's the drill. We've found the best tutorials on the Internet on how to use menus in Android. What we want you to do is to read the tutorials, follow the instructions therein, and then create new apps to learn more about how to use these menus. Here we go. All right, so by now you know the drill. We present you with tutorials on a bunch of topics and you go through them one at a time to master them. In this section we will focus on user input events. Now we used on click events on the Android for Beginners course. Here we will talk about ideas like on long click and drag and drop. Here we go. Okay so the next bunch of links are about adding navigation to your app. Things like how do you go from one activity to another or one screen to another. Now we have the same process as before. For each link we're about to show, read the tutorial, and create a new Android project to practice the contents of the tutorial. And then move on to the next link. Here we go. All right, this section is about laying out views on your phone screen. Now if you recall, while building the Happy Birthday app in the Android for Beginners course, we used something called linear layout and relative layout to arrange views on the screen. The thing we will focus on here is called list view. A lot of to do apps use this layout. Then we will move on to something called a grid view, which is used by a lot of picture sharing apps. Here we go. Okay, this section is about best practices. Here we will think about design, colors and other important ideas that make an app really professional and also emotionally satisfying. Let's read. All right, this section is called miscellaneous, which pretty much means that all ideas in Android that are important that we could not fit anywhere else in this course are in this section. Here you can learn to practice how to play sound, or how to add a map to your app, and a few other ideas. Let's get started.