Building a business is hard. As an entrepeneur, not only do you need a solid product, but you need to secure investment, find co-founders, hire employees and complete countless of other tasks in pursuit of your goals. But being an entrepeneur comes with a ton of responsibilities, like the freedom to be your own boss and the chance to make a lasting impact on the world. Throughout this course, you're going to get expert advice from Googlers, from co-founders of companies, like CrunchBase and UpWest Labs, from investors of accelerators, like NFX Guild and from other Silicon Valley business experts. All this expertise comes together in this course to help you to find your business goals, build your team around your product and get financing to help grow your startup. By the end of this course, you can have the confidence in your product and your business. >From there, you'll be in great shape for the build-up product out, go see around, fly to an accelerator, or just bootstrap your way to sucess. Hi I'm Shenea, a program manager at Google. Prior to Google, I started a digital marketing agency to help women entrepreneurs, authors, and experts develop and launch their businesses online. I'll be here to guide you through each lesson and project. I'll also introduce you to successful entrepreneurs and investors who are here to help you get deep insights into your new life as a founder. So welcome to the course and let's get started building your business. Let's hear from Gigi Levy-Weiss, an angel investor, business executive, and founder of the NFX Guild, a digital network and marketplace. He's got some great advice about starting your journey as an entrepreneur. My name is Gigi Levy-Weiss and I'm from Israel. And I'm an investor in various startups today and also I am a founding partner in Palo Alto accelerator called NFX, which focuses on network effects businesses. Taking everything from early stage to post-A companies and helping them grow very fast. So I started as a pilot in the Israeli Air Force, which is a very entrepreneurial place. When I finished that, I started my first company and like many of them, it was not very successful. And then I started my second company which luckily was more successful which I sold many years ago, talking about close to 20 years ago now. After that I started my journey to the dark side and moved to become an executive in the company that acquired my company. Moved on there up to being a CEO, then became the CEO of another company and then built another company. Last company I ran for five years was a publicly traded company in London called 888 Gaming Company. Around 1500 people dealing with internet and started investing in companies or 11 years ago as a hobby. A friend came to me with an idea I really like the idea. I gave him a bit of money and the lot of advice and then after a year, I got a big fat check and I said well I can do that. I love that. And so I took all that money and I decided I'm going to reinvest it in other companies and I was very lucky in that some of the companies I chose became more successful and so I continued with it. And so over the years, I invested in quite a few companies. And then when I left my last corporate role five years ago, I decided that it's going to be a good idea to not take another big ugly corporate role and instead of it just stick to the entrepreneurship and investments. And that's what I've been doing the last five years. While I was an executive and CEO of large companies. And what I found is that the investment, the work with entrepreneurs has kept me alive, kept me excited. And so when I left the old role, I decided that that's what I want to do full time and that's what I've been doing ever since. A year ago, in attempts to basically somehow institutionalize my work with startups, I've set up in an Exeter here in the Silicon Valley with two partners, James Corden and Stan Chenovsky, two good friends of mine that are very very successful entrepreneurs and investors. And we're now helping young teams from Israel and from the United States basically accelerate their business around network effect businesses, so that's what we focus on. Well, there's nothing bad in being corporate, it's just less exciting. So what I love, I love the creation. I love the doing. I love the speed. I love the energy. I love the feeling that everything is possible and waking up in the morning, knowing that if there's a mountain here, we're going to move it, and build it somewhere else, if needed. And I don't think you get that in corporate, at least in most corporates. The bureaucracy, the structure, the politics, take away most of the things that I love in working, and so I'd much rather continue dealing with entrepreneurship. When I think about entrepreneur and what I want in entrepreneurs, it's a great question because it at the end of the day, an entrepreneur is full of contradictions. And the people that are really those great, great entrepreneur that I'm looking for, they're very strange people because let's take a few of these contradictions. To start with, these are people that are what we call alpha dogs. They run, they stop, they brake for no one. They know what to do at any given point. On the other hand, they're never that good if they can't take advice. But it's pretty much in contradiction because these people that just run forward, they're usually not the ones that take advice. Well, great entrepreneurs are. When you look at entrepreneurs, there are people that are very smart so they understand that the chances of a startup to succeed are roughly 1 out of 20 because that's the statistics. On the other hand, the great ones never believe that they're going to be the ones failing, they know that they're going to go on succeeding. Again, they're creating their own reality. And the third thing is that, these entrepreneurs, they wake up in the morning, and they know 100% that they're going in the right direction. By the afternoon, they can pivot the company because they ran into a new piece of data that forced them to change their view, but they will wake up the next morning again, being 100% sure that they're running in the right direction, which is a totally different direction than yesterday. And so these qualities are basically the main qualities that I look in entrepreneurs. When I find the ones that are like that, these are the one hour meetings, right? These are the one hour meetings, and after that I say hey, that's a perfect personality fit to be an entrepreneur. I don't care what your field. You may pivot, for all I care, 20 times, but I want to be part of that journey, because that's a person that's going to succeed. That's an entrepreneur that has everything it takes. Now, let's take some time to lay out the purpose and direction of your business. We'll start off by introducing mission and vision statements, and then you'll get a chance to write your own. This will give you the baseline for making decisions about short term goals you'll be setting later. What's a vision statement and how do you get started writing one for your business? A vision statement is a declaration of your company objectives, meant to provide guidance on the decisions you make. Basically, it's the big dream that you have for your business. You can think of it as the Northstar for your company. It helps provide inspiration about what your business is focused on achieving throughout its lifetime. There's a few basic questions that a vision statement should be able to answer. Try focusing on questions like these. What will your business become if everything goes according to plan? Why do you exist? And how will your business change the world? You don't want to state specific ways you go about doing this yet, just focus on the overarching goal that you as a business plan to work towards. And finally, it's important to consider how long your vision statement might need to be. There's really no set length for a vision statement, but there's a few guidelines you can follow to help write yours. You want to make sure you have enough information to provide a sense of purpose, a call to action and an idea of your final destination. You don't want it to be so long that it's difficult to understand. But making it too short can also leave out the kind of meaning it will need to actually guide your business. One line vision statements are possible but you could have a full paragraph if that's what it takes. Just consider that if you want people to actually read and remember this, then brief can be better. Don't be so broad that you sound generic, but not so specific that it won't be relevant after a couple years. For example, Google's vision is to provide access to the world's information in one click. Do you notice how their vision focuses on a bold claim about the overarching goal they have for their business? Try doing the same for yours. So, consider some of these ideas and look into some of the examples of vision statements created by other companies. Once you feel comfortable with the purpose of a vision statement, try thinking of one that you could use for your business. What's a mission statement, and how do you write one for your startup? Let's define what a mission statement is, what questions it should answer, and then go over some guidelines you can use to write one for your business. So first, what is it? A mission statement Is a statement of your company's functions, market, and goals. The purpose of your mission statement is to ground your big dream, in terms of the steps you plan to take to reach it. You'll focus on what you're capable of right now and what you can achieve in the near future. There's a few basic questions that a mission statement should be able to answer. What do you do? Who do you do it for? And how do you do it? Your mission statement should take the vision you've created and define what you plan to do to achieve it. So how long should your mission statement be? This is similar to a vision statement, in that there's no set length that it needs to be. Some mission statements can be a single sentence and some can be a full paragraph, just make sure you're providing the clarity needed to give direction to you and your team. Focus on the actual value that you provide to your users. For example, Google's vision is to provide access to the world's information in one click. But their mission statement is a little more specific. Google's mission is to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. Do you see how their mission statement describes the way in which they plan to achieve their vision? They organize information and make it accessible. Try to provide a similar clarity for your mission statement. So, now that you know a little more about the purpose of a mission statement, take some time to come up with one that you could use for your company. Hopefully, you've got a better idea of what your vision and mission statements are and why they're an important tool for your startups. Now, let's take some time to write both the vision and mission statements together for your business. Here's what we came up with for our app. At No Water Left Behind our vision is a world without drought. It's concise and targets a long term objective we can target for many years. Our mission statement is to save the world millions of gallons of water by educating people on good water saving habits. Notice how we've expanded on the original vision and described more precisely the way in which we'll go about getting there. It's still not providing enough detail for us to have more short term goals, but it will give the guidance necessary to begin creating them. Try using our example to give more direction to your own vision and mission statements. My name is Kristen 'Krispy' Uccello. I am a developer advocate for Google with our strategic games partners. And what that means is I work in an engineering capacity with these partners to help overcome any issues they have while bringing their technology to Google Play or integrating Google technologies into whatever they've built. I am a serial entrepreneur. I've started and bootstrapped several dozen companies over my life, and have learned a lot of lessons in those years. So a few times in my career I've ended up in situations where we've had to pivot and it's mostly based on the assumptions that we had or the theory that we were trying to test just didn't work out for whatever reason. Or a partner had a different opinion. So, in one of my tech startups we did a technical demo that failed and so we pivoted into a new technical direction. Based on the technology we had which also didn't work out the way we had anticipated. So we pivoted again and ended up acquiring a small company in business and trying to work that into our core business which turned out not to be lucrative so that changed the conditions upon which we were operating our business. So we pivoted again into a completely different category of technology business while still trying to leverage that initial seed of technology that we had. The perception for me was we were running amok, we were just like wildly thrashing around and it wasn't acceptable. So, at that point I stepped back personally and just sort of took stock of what we had and what I believed in at that point, went back to my core values. And went back to our first idea and decided on a reimplementation of that. And that actually gave the company the engineering direction it needed to launch a product. It only took six years. Okay, so in the context of of guidelines and planning, and maybe overp lanning in a business, there's a real danger for startups. I think, or at least it's been my experience that people who are not maybe directly involved in the process of creating the thing that's at the core of the business. Maybe in like a software company, it's the engineers. Or a marketing company, it's the ads, or what have you. The people who are making the decisions, if they're too disconnected from the actual acts of the company, there is a real problem where they could create plans that are just disconnected from the actual realities of the business. I mean, I can't provide off the top of my head any direct examples because I'm just forgetting all of them right now. But I've seen companies fail all the time for misdirection. Bad planning, not understanding what business you're actually in. So, especially in startups where you are effectively building a business that has no roadmap, you cannot build a roadmap in advance of that. You can only reflect on the things that others have done before. And usually you're going to get that wrong. The whole purpose of a startup is to carve a new path in an area where there are no paths. And trying to calculate in advance too far where you're trying to go or what you're trying to do or how you're going to get there can actually lead you way off base from where you're trying to go. Now, let's take some time to understand opportunity cost and goal setting. We'll use this to help break down your mission and vision statements into what goals you hope to accomplish within the first 12 months. What does it mean to evaluate opportunity cost and how can you use it to make better decisions for your business? As an entrepreneur, you're going to face a ton of decisions, and you'll have to adapt to new situations as they unfold. What if new opportunities come up. What if things take longer than expected or maybe things actually go quicker than you thought. When this happens, you'll need to change gears and adjust your direction. But how do you know which way to go? One way to figure this out is to evaluate the opportunity cost of your decisions. So what's opportunity cost? Opportunity cost is the loss of potential gain from other alternatives when one alternative is chosen. In other words, every decision you make has a potential gain associated with it. And any time you choose one option, you're missing out on the potential gains of a different option. It's up to you to compare each decision and determine which one has the most potential gain. This will minimize the opportunity cost of the direction you take. [BLANK_AUDIO] Here's a few questions you can ask yourself to help evaluate your opportunity cost. Is there something I could be doing right now that would be a better use of my time? Is there any way I could be managing my resources better and how could I put myself on my team in a position to make the best use of their skills? Any time that you're not doing these things as effectively as you could be your actions have some opportunity cost associated with them. There are more specific values you can start to place on these numbers. But getting this basic mindset is a great place to start. Moving forward, try to think, what else could I be doing right now? Is there a way my time, money, or resources could be better spent? >From there, you can start weighing the opportunity cost of each decision you make. Do you have any idea how you plan to start taking action towards the ideas you have for your business? Let's start by breaking down your mission and vision statements into a set of 12 month goals. For your 12 month goals, try to answer questions like. How many customers do you want to have? How much revenue do you hope to make? And what metrics are you looking at to help you get there? There are plenty of other questions you can ask. And this really depends on the type of impact you're hoping to have with your business. Here's a strategy you can use to help get started. Try thinking about a core objective that's fundamental to the success of your business. For example, maybe your app needs lots of users. Can you imagine making any progress at all and gaining these users? How many do you think you could get? Write that number down. Now in what timeframe do you think it would take to reach that goal? Once you have that number, you can adjust it relative to what portion of the goal could be achieved within the next year. Let's look at an example of how you might be able to use this for your business. I feel pretty confident that I could get ten customers in a month. So maybe 120 customers is a good goal for my first year. Or, if 5,000 customers in my first five years seems reasonable, then maybe I could reach a 1,000 customers by the end of year one. Start where you're comfortable and work from there. Another idea you can try is to look into similar businesses. Seeing where they started, and finding out how they were able to grow over time. And remember these goals can change. The idea right now is to really just get something to work from later on. So take some time to think about where you hope to be in one year, and when you're ready write out your 12 month goals. So, where do you see your startup at the end of your first year? Consider some of the ideas we just went over, and then try writing down the goals you hope to achieve within your business in the first 12 months. Check out the 12 month goals we came up with for no water left behind. See if our ideas can help provide a bit of structure for your own plan. In the next 12 months, we'd like to accomplish three main goals. Have a version two of our app, help Californians save 100,000 gallons of water, and receive $10,000 in donations of revenue. Here's why we chose these goals. Our first goal was a product goal. Planning to create a version two of our app gives us room to expand and works as the vehicle necessary to help drive us towards our other goals. We also need to make a better experience for our users in order to make it easier to save water or donate. Our second goal is a mission goal. We want to help Californians save 100,000 gallons of water this year. This directly aligns with the mission of our organization. If we can accomplish this, we've really hit upon making the type of impact that we're hoping for with this app. The final goal is a revenue goal. We'd like to get $10,000 in donations by the end of the year. We'll need this money to continue funding our efforts, if we hope to be able to make an even larger impact in the future. Our 12 month goals help provide more clarity about where we hope to be by the end of our first year. This is a great start but it's hard to tell where to begin. Let's begin by breaking this goal into some shorter term goals for our business. Now let's hear from Noam Schwartz, the head of innovation of SimilarWeb. He has stories about his experience as an entrepreneur and some advice that you can use to help get your business off the ground. We were so obsessed with the little things that didn't matter like the of a specific button or the specific experience when the user is clicking back but is not logged in. All kinds of side things that won't move the needle and doesn't really matter. And it's very important to make sure that the experience is perfect and you're nailing it on the first time but you need to make sure that the product is right and not the buttons. Need to make sure the general flow and the problem that is being solved with your product is right, and not the specific background color or the perfect logo or the responsiveness of the website because that's optimisation. You do that in the AB testing part. You do that after you nail your MVP but we did that before we met them MVP and we waited a lot of time on that and I wish we hadn't. It will not happen again. Here's the 3, 6, 6 and 12 month goals we came up with for no water left behind. Keep in mind that our 12 month goals were to save 50,000 gallons of water and raise $10,000 in donations. First, for zero to three month goals, we want to add some features to a version two of our app. We're hoping to create water saving activities in the app to make it easier for our users to save water. We'd also like to allow the users to keep track of the total amount of water they save. For our three to six month goals, we'd like to add a feature that allows users to give donations. At this point, we'd also like to of helped save 5,000 gallons of water. Next, let's look into our six to nine month goals. For our six to nine month goals, we'd like the features we've previously implemented to help save 15,000 gallons of water. This would be a total of 20,000 gallons saved. We'd also like to make UI improvements, to make it easier for users to use the app for both water saving activities and donations. Which we hope will help drive $4,000 in donations and revenue. And finally here's our nine to 12 month goals. For our nine to 12 month goals we would like to have helped save 30,000 gallons of water, which would be 50,000 gallons total. We'd also like to have earned $6,000 in donations in revenue during this time. This would give us $10,000 total raised. Notice that by the end of our 9-12 month goals, we've accomplished the original 12 month goals we set for ourselves. Now that we have our milestones laid out, it's time to come up with actions we plan to take to start reaching them. Let's talk with Matt Kaufmann, the Head of Operations at Crunch Base. He's got a ton of experience helping founders build their businesses and some advice on helping you meet your goals. Hi. My name's Matt Kaufman and I'm the Head of Operations at CrunchBase. CrunchBase collects information about startups, private companies, and investors, and puts it all together on the web for anybody to come and see and anybody to research to discover more about companies. About three years ago, AOL, which owned CrunchBase at the time, hired me to figure out what is CrunchBase? Is there a business of CrunchBase, is there something there? That was three years ago, and that led to AOL spinning CrunchBase out into a private business and us actually raising a Series A in September of last year. Early stage entrepreneurship is really hard. You have to do everything. And so, it's very easy to get off-track. It's very easy to dive down into trying to build the perfect marketing plan, maybe we even don't have a product yet, or you can dive into the code of a product making it perfect when it doesn't even work yet, there's nothing to display, nothing to show people. So, as an entrepreneur, the thing that you really have to keep in mind is focus. What are the things that you're focused on that are going to make your business move forward? It may not be the things that you want to work on today. It may not be the things that you think are the most fun. But you have to constantly step back and say, okay, what is the most important thing I need to do to move the business forward? And focus on that. And there are so many distractions, and you just have to let yourself move forward and not get sidetracked. As an entrepreneur when you're looking at your product and you're trying to determine whether an MVP is good enough, and whether you have to reach your product perfection before you can go out to customers, some of this depends on what customers you initially go after. And as an entrepreneur, part of being an entrepreneur is maybe selecting the right customers out of the gate. Can you find customers who are willing to take something that's not quite finished and provide valuable feedback? Are they willing to take something and incorporate it into their business? Those are the first customers that you want. Because some customers on the other hand might tell you, we don't want to try this or use it in our business until it's completely done and it's out in the marketplace. And if those are your initial set of customers, then the bar is too high before you can get feedback. And so part of figuring out what that MVP is, is actually figuring out who your first customers are and selecting the right set of first customers. What are guidelines? And how can you use them to help meet the goals you set for your startup? Let's start by defining what guidelines are and then look at an example of how you might use them for your business. Guidelines are a set of steps you'll take to meet the goals you set for your company. Here the question stops being, what do you want to accomplish, and instead you focus on how will you accomplish it? This will be unique for each company depending on the goals and how you decide you would like to reach them. You might need to do some engineering, marketing, or sales to get the job done. But first, you need to plan what it is you actually want to do. Now here's how you could go about setting guidelines for one particular goal. Pretend you decided that your goal is to have 90 users in your first three months. Well that's great, but how? You can set an even closer goal of 30 customers after a month, or seven customers after a week. But this still doesn't really answer the question. What is time to answer is what techniques will you use to meet this goal. There's plenty of ways you could try, but here's a few. You could attend some meetup events nearby and try to raise awareness about your product. Maybe you prefer social media and would like to market through those types of channels instead. Really, whatever works for you that you think would help you meet the goals you set is what you should try. So, with all this in mind, go through each of the goals you set for yourself. And try to come up with a technique that you can use to make progress towards achieving that goal. Here are some examples of techniques we've created to accomplish our goals for no water left behind. Some of the goals we had were to track water savings, implement new features, and increase user donations. Let's look into how we plan to accomplish each of these goals. First we'd like to add a track water savings feature to our app. There's a few things we'll need to do if we hope to implement this feature. We'll need to start off by making paper prototypes of our app to come up with as many new ideas as possible. Next we'll do some user testing to decide which of our ideas are actually helping the user track the amount of water they're saving. Finally, we'll create a high fidelity prototype of our best design to implement into our app. If we can accomplish all this, will have successfully implemented our water savings feature. We'd also like to implement a feature that allows us to accept user donations. Since this is just another feature we'd like to add, we'll need to go through a similar process as we did for our water savings feature. So for this feature will again need to make paper prototypes do some user testing and create high fidelity prototypes. Even though the steps are similar between these two ideas they're still entirely different projects that will need to be treated separately. And last, we want to get the word out to our users so that we're able to me our goals of getting more user donations. To get more users and donations, will need to create a social campaign, build an Adwords campaign and attend some in person environmental conservation meet ups. Now that we know the techniques were used to meet our goals, we can break these techniques down into specific skills will need to achieve them. General entrepreneur advice? Yep. My favorite question so far. [LAUGH] Just be passionate. Understand what it is you want and why you're doing this thing. Because if you don't, if you're chasing something or following someone else's advice, you are living what they want, not what you want. The best way to succeed that I found is to follow that thing that is important to you and knowing what's important to you is actually a big challenge, a lot of people don't know. There's a few other things I can add to this. One is, my dream was always to come to California and work for one of the largest, most influential companies in the area. I've had this dream since I read Microserf's when I was 12 and it took 20 odd years before that actually happened but it did happen. But through the process of just always focusing on that's my goal and everything that I'm going to do is somehow going to get me there. All the businesses that I started, all the business partners and relationships I built and communities that I was involved in through all the businesses that I ran, I was always looking to come specifically here. On the flip side of that, something I would advise all entrepreneurs to be aware of especially in the startup scene, is that startups are seen as a product now. They are a commodity in and out of themselves. There is an entire industry that is built up around selling things to startups and selling the concept of startups. Don't believe the hype. Do not waste your time going to stupid conferences for silly awards that mean nothing to your business. Always focus on your core values and what your business means to you and why it's valuable. Congratulations, we did so much. You laid out your long term goals into your Vision Statement. You put your short term goals in your Mission Statement. And you made a list the steps showing how you plan to get there. In the next lesson, we'll break down these milestones into the skills required to accomplish them. This will get you ready to start taking action on your ideas. So, bring your plans and I'll see you there. Welcome to the lesson. Here you'll start breaking down the actions you plan to take for your business into the skills you'll need to help achieve them. You'll identify the skills you have in the places you might be able to use some help. By the end of this lesson, you'll know what you need and be prepared to start filling any skill gaps you may have. Hi, my name's Art Gillespie, and I'm both the director of engineering and head of growth here at Udacity. So in 2000 I started a company called Glare Soft. And Glare Soft was interesting because right around then personal computers were becoming powerful enough to sort of replace what you would go to a recording studio to use as a musician. And so, a handful of us around the world started these small tiny software companies, building this pioneering technology that actually could replace some analog synthesizer in your PC and we did that until 2006. We sold the company to a larger audio software company and it was an amazing experience. We grew a lot, we sold a lot of products at one point we were in Apple retail which was super exciting. Send my parents the to Apple store and I wrote the software. So yeah that was the company that I created and I'm still to this day really proud of it. So I had a company that made basically custom audio D.S.P. for musical applications and I sold that and I was kind of semi retired and I was messing around with iOS apps that were again audio oriented. And I met Oliver who's the V.P. end here and he was working on apps as well and he came out here to Silicon Valley and started a company called Origami. And I've been kind of out of the game for a while and was interested and so he hired me into that startup and I moved my family out here to Silicon Valley and then that startup got acquired by Nest and then this got acquired by Google and I left Google about a year ago to come here to Utah City and head up the engineering team. Let's look at some of the new responsibilities you'll have as the founder of your company. In an early stage startup, you'll wear many hats. You may be the product manager, sales associate, accountant or something else. As you grow, you'll give some of these responsibilities to other people like co-founders, employees, freelancers or outsourcing companies. During this time you're responsible for providing resources to your team. This will help them continue building the service users love. To do this effectively, you'll need to provide both the emotional and physical support your team needs. So what types of emotional support should you provide? Emotionally, you should be able to communicate what is needed to achieve your vision and overcome obstacles by making the important decisions. You'll also want to make sure they feel supported, encouraged, and capable of doing their job correctly. And what are some of the physical needs of your team? They need a place to work from, even if it's their home. They need to get paid. So you'll need some money and they need equipment like laptops and infrastructure like servers. You can ask your team to use their own equipment will try getting some of what you need for free which you could get from many of the existing start up programs. Moving forward, try to consider how you plan to provide these resources for your team as you continue to grow and expand your business. You might need to get creative here, but take some time to think about what you can do to give the emotional and physical support your team needs. So with team building, you know you have it right. And it's an incredible moment when all of a sudden your team does something that you could have never thought of and better than you could have ever done it. And that's why you do it. The reason you bring people into your company. And bring them into your vision, is because they're going to make it better than it ever was inside your head. And those moments, there'll be these moments where you just notice that something will happen, and you'll be, I had nothing to do with that and it was extraordinary. And those are just, that's honestly for me, that's why I love starting companies. So I eluded to this earlier. My process for finding my weaknesses was to fail. And I think that's really valuable in all aspects of business and entrepreneurship, but particularly in the early days. You can do the job, you can do it well enough and you'll know soon enough what you're not good at or it may not even be a question of what you're not good at. It may be a question of what you're best at and what should be sort of delegated or handed off to a co-founder or early employee. So yeah, I think for me failure was the process. I think it's really important what I did. It's kind of silly, but every Friday at 3 PM, I had on my calendar just sit down and just think about what was going well and what wasn't. And I think carving out that time to sort of introspect and think about that. If I had a process it was that. Here's a quick overview of what you'll need to grow your business. The product you build is going to involve some combination of three basic assets, skills, money, and time. Let's have a look into some things you'll need to consider about each of these assets. First, how do you know what skills you'll need for your business? Depending on the goals you set for yourself, you'll need a different set of skills to get the job done. There are plenty of ways to find the people you need to get these skills for your team. We'll talk about this later but first it's important to define the skills you'll actually need. Common skills you need are engineers, salespeople, marketers and operations. Try thinking of the goals you set in terms of the skills it takes to complete them. Once you determine which skills you need, you'll need money to get some help. Common ways to find the skills you need are through hiring, outsourcing, and freelancing. There's a lot that goes into this and you don't need to worry about it quite yet, but try thinking about the skills you need in terms of how you plan to pay someone to get them. As you build your team, you're really trading money for time. Your goal is to reduce the amount of time it takes to complete your goals. By getting the right people for the job, you also increase how quickly you provide value to your users. Your team will help you experiment, iterate and operate more quickly and effectively. This helps keep you innovative and profitable moving forward. Take some time to consider how you'll use these three assets as you continue to grow your business. Now, let's take the time to break down your plans into the skills it takes to get the job done. Start by categorizing each goal into a job that can be done by engineering, sales, marketing or operations. You use this later to help you identify what you can do, where you need help and how you plan to find the skills you need. So my entrepreneurial experience. I found it's abundantly obvious when you need to hire somebody. So you kind of go on, you have this idea, you're working on it really hard. You get some users, you get some traction and the thing that gives you the most pain is the thing that you need to hire for and for me it was always operations. And just like doing deals, advertising, getting any, I mentioned earlier that were in Apple retail. That was just this woman that I hired that just miraculously made it happen. It was huge lots of phone calls and meetings and so the thing about it is you need to find the people that are going to fill in your gaps and they become, I like to go until it's painful. I've done their job for a little bit so I know what to look for but I hate it enough that I know I need to get somebody else to do it. But I really recommend, I've seen entrepreneurs do this where they will actually just go, well I need to be the person before they've actually felt that pain. Like they think this is the playbook, they read a book somewhere or they heard from video or they read the story of another company. Every company is unique and especially in the early days and so your strengths are unique, so what you need to hire first off is probably not what any other company needed to hire right off the bat. You've broken down your needs into four major skills, engineering, sales, marketing and operations. Now we'll look a little deeper into each of these skill sets, so you can get a better understanding of the specific needs for your business. It's an interesting question about finding people early on, especially those first couple of key hires, which can give you a lot of anxiety because you feel like you're betting the whole company on those first, especially the first one. But the first two or three, and people will tell you that the first ten can make or break your company, and it's absolutely true. For me, what I usually did was find fans of the product in the community. Because typically, I wasn't looking for, in the early days, technical skills because I was able to do that work. And super enthusiastic users that loved the product were the best people to bring in. So I remember the first person, I told you, I had trouble with operations, it turned out somebody that loved the product had been an accountant in a previous life. And so I brought him in, and he sort of took over all that for me. Oddly enough, my second employer was my wife. And she was amazing, a little difficult to work with, but [LAUGH] did a great job. And but yeah, for me, it was actually finding users of the product that had skills, so they were already passionate. They were all excited, and I've seen this model elsewhere. 37 Signals talks about this too, they find people that already use the product, they're really passionate about it. They're active in the community, helping people already in forums. But this is the best people because they've already sort of self-selected, based on their passion for the product. In my experience, finding people that are already passionate about your product, even just a tiny, you're going to have a tiny audience at that point when it's just you. But that's great, that those people are super passionate. They sought you out. And so finding people with the skills you need in that group has always really worked well for me throughout my sort of entrepreneurial career. Let's have a look at how engineers can help create your product. If there's a difference between how your app works right now, and how you hope it will work in the future, then you probably need an engineer. For your start-up, let's focus on front end, back end, mobile, and data engineers. So, what's a front end engineer? A front end engineer helps design the look of your app, create interactions, and build the overall user experience. They'll make responsive interfaces so that your app is accessible no matter what device your user has. Take a little time to explore some of your favorite web apps. Is there anything you like about them? Maybe there's something you find a bit awkward. Either way, that's something a front end engineer developed. How about a back end engineer? Back end engineers build and maintain the technology that powers your servers and databases. They're responsible for storing and distributing this data to the rest of your team. As your business scales, back end engineers will help create the infrastructure necessary to continue running smoothly. Now, let's look at mobile engineers. Mobile-based apps are native apps you download and run on your Android or iOS phones. A mobile engineer is responsible for building this mobile-based functionality. They're able to improve mobile performance, and test apps on new devices. Common types of mobile engineers are Android and iOS developers. Mobile engineers can give direct access to Bluetooth, Gyroscope, and Accelerometer functionality within your app. And finally, what's a data engineer? Data engineers focus on developing the architecture your business needs to collect, manage, and analyze data. They have some similar responsibilities to back end engineers. They help distribute data to your team by creating the data pipelines necessary to collect and organize your data. This will help you make data-driven decisions for your business, so you can more accurately meet the needs of your users. There's so much more you can learn about these different types of engineers. But, now that you know a little, do you see yourself needing any of these skills for your business? The idea of what you're looking for in those initial employees, is it's a really important one. They have to be jacks of all trades and they have to be passionate but they also and, in fact, I think this is just when you're looking for employees in any whether it's a start up, whether they're your first employee or hundreds. What you really want are people that have a very specific skill, but are willing, and this is where the passion comes in, are willing to do whatever it takes, whether it's their job, whether it's their specialty, whether it's kind of outside their comfort zone. Because if you think about a start up the grows is going, the people that start, their rules are going to change every six months, significantly. The first person that handles marketing for you could be your VP eng in a year and a half. You never know what's going to happen and you need the most adaptable people you can find. And I think that adaptability, some of it's a core trait but a lot of that is really just willingness and passion and an ability to learn fast which is super important obviously. Now try breaking down each of your needs into some of the more specific roles you just learned about. Then label each of these skills into what you're strong in, what you can learn and where you might need some help. You'll use this later on as you decide to start building your team. So I think the most important thing you can do in the early days trying to get people to come work for you is beg really well. And there's some truth to that, really. But the thing you can offer people at that stage of a company is impact and vision and passion and that they can't get anywhere else. I mean sure, you need to set up the incentives and compensation so that it makes sense. They're going to make a sacrifice joining you early in this journey, almost certainly, right? There's some opportunity cost for you. There's some opportunity cost for your early employees. And that could last years. So you want to set up incentives in such a way and compensation and such such a way that it's fair and equitable, equity. But the thing that you really offer them, I mean everybody offers equity. And it's worth the paper it's printed on, literally. What you can really sell people on and really get people excited about is the impact they'll have and the vision that you have and the product itself and the changes that you can make. Even if it's just, it doesn't have to be a world changing product. But the ability, people want to have an impact. The kind of people you want to hire desperately want to have an impact. And that's what you can give them that they can't, they go to a larger company, that impact is necessarily diminished. And so I always talk more about the impact and the learning and the roles and the fact that they will be making more decisions then they'll probably make it any other time in their life. And the right people for those early hires will just gravitate towards that. And the sort of compensation in dealing with the sort of sacrifice that they're making, the opportunity cost of their incurring, is just details. You just get them excited about the impact that they can have. The way I've always thought of it, in those early days, is that you have the 100% of your time. Which is building the product and getting the product out there and making sure people know the product. And then the other 100% of your time, which is running the business. And that in those early days, when you've started hiring, a big part of that second 100% is just hiring. Finding people, talking to people, getting them excited about the impact that they can have. And I wish there was a better answer than the balances. You just have to work a lot. Let's look at what a marketing team does and see how they can help your startup. The marketing team is in charge of making sure people know who you are and what you do. Their message is responsible for bringing customers to your doorstep. They're responsible for things like understanding the customer, differentiating your brand, monitoring the competition and creating new acquisition campaigns. A great marketing team can blend the data you're collecting with the users experience to create a message people can't ignore. There are a lot of different skills the marketing team needs to have. Basically anything that can get your message to potential users is what a marketing team needs to learn how to do. Some of the common skills you'll need to be an effective marketer are copywriting, email marketing, social media, and search engine optimization. Each of these provides a different way to create awareness of who you are and what you do. If you haven't yet checked out the Udacity course on marketing your app, this is a great resource you can use to get started. Here you'll do things like finding your competitors, creating a value proposition, and building a launch strategy for your app. These are all fundamental to the success of your marketing efforts and will have an enormous effect on the growth of your company. So, go through your goals and decide how your marketing efforts will help you achieve them. Do you have the skills needed to do these things yourself or do you need help from someone else? Yes, stressful moments building a team, there really are a lot. And the biggest one for me I remember is then, and honestly, I still feel this today even in a larger company when you get to hire somebody, you've decided that you want them to join the company. It's that moment when you are waiting for them to get back to you, because once you've decided that somebody is going to help you grow your company and get you to the next step, it feels like life or death to you. And so you're just sitting there like, please say yes, please say yes. Texting them may be a little too much. You know, it's almost like dating. So yeah, it's a little stressful. How can an operations department help your startup? An operations department exist to make sure everything runs smoothly. They manage the people products and finances throughout your business to allow things to keep driving forward. Let's take a quick look at some of the people you'll encounter in your operations department, lawyers, accountants and the HR department. Business lawyers have experience with the issues surrounding the process of starting a business. You probably won't need to keep a lawyer on staff but having consultations to help prevent disasters is generally a good idea. Lawyers will help you navigate through establishing a business entity, protecting your intellectual property, and understanding any legal consequences for actions you might take. And what do accountants do for your business? Accountants will prepare financial records, examine these records for accuracy, and prepare taxes for your business. They can help give advice on how to appropriately separate your personal and business expenses. And give you a better understanding of how to track and manage your money. Lawyers and accountants can also work closely on certain issues. One of the first times you might see them together is when deciding on the type of entity and ownership structure of your business. And finally, the HR department. The HR department has a wide variety of responsibilities related to the well being of the people in your business. It takes care of recruiting new team members, conducting interviews managing relations, payroll, training and many other things. They'll be the ones that seek out new talent and help them become a seasoned member of your team. Are you able to manage operations for your business or do you plan on finding someone else for the job? For my part I think the most important thing about hiring early on or at any point your startup but especially early on is the same thing that's important wiuth everything you do as an entrepreneur, and I suspect it. And that's to sort of to trust your instincts and trust your judgment. It's good to think about these things. It's good to read about other people's experiences. It's good to listen to me and what I went through, but the most important thing, when I've gone wrong hiring, when I've gone wrong with product plans and launches, it's because I didn't trust myself. I don't listen to myself. If you feel like it's a good hire go after it. If you don't, don't. But the most important thing is to trust yourself as an entrepreneur. Nice job getting through this lesson. By now, you should have a guide which shows you the skills that are necessary for you to meet your goals and where you could use some help. In this next lesson, you'll use this guide as you learn more about the different options you have to fill any skill gaps you found. We'll explore hiring, outsourcing, freelancers, mentors and business partners as common options you have to help with your business. So, bring your guide and we'll see you there. Welcome to the lesson. In this lesson, we'll dive into what options you have to start building your team. We'll learn about finding co-founders, mentors, and your first employees. By the end the lesson, you'll be more prepared to start building your own team to help grow your business. We've [LAUGH] got a lot of hard work to do. So let's get started. When starting your business, it's important to find a balance between the time and resources you have available. Have a look at this scale. On one end is the resources you have and on the other is the time it takes to complete your goals. You'll need to find the right balance on the scale to manage your time and resources effectively. So, what happens over here? If you're not careful how you use your time, you can end up trying to do everything yourself. This could save you resources but it forces you to focus on daily tasks rather than the growth and stability of your company. In this situation, you probably need to go out and find people with the right skills to help you build your business. Now, what happens if you don't manage your resources effectively? There are many ways you can run low on resources, but here's one example. Maybe you've done a great job building your team and have plenty of time to work on growing your company. While building a great team is necessary, overextending your resources can become unsustainable and cause other problems for your business. In this situation you may need to cut back on the resources you're spending by managing a few jobs yourself, or finding cheaper ways to get it done. Your goal is to stay somewhere in the middle. If you can find a way to manage both your time and resources effectively, you build a much better foundation for your business to grow on. Coming up, you'll learn to manage this balance. As we go through each of the options you have for your business, keep in mind how you plan to balance your resources with the time you have available. It's tough to run a business, but you need to do it alone. Many businesses have more than one founder. This lets you focus on your strengths, while they focus on theirs. So let's take some time to decide if a co-founder is right for you. We'll look at what a co-founder does and why they're important, and we'll also hear from Noam and Kristy about their experiences finding and working with co-founders. The real kind of relationship that you have with the co-founder, is very similar to the relationship that you have with your partner. Your for them. You can say everything to them. You can be happy, and cry, and be upset and furious. And share what you really are, and what you really feel with them. And they will accept it, and they will support you. It sounds very sentimental and very weird, but that I believe, that's the secret of a great partnership between partners. Being there for each other. Understanding what's your partner's strengths and weaknesses, and really becoming a stronger unit, a stronger combination. I have a friend that had his own business for a long time, and he didn't have any co-founder and he made a lot of money. But one day, he had a new idea and he decided to start a new company and this time with a co-founder. That was also a co-founder before, and when they started collaborating, it was amazing. All of a sudden they build the business that grew so fast that it diminished everything they did before, and that's my personal opinion, that it's natural to have a co-founder. But they prove themselves as sole founders before and they were very successful before that so everything is possible. I believe that someone who wants to do his own business by himself, he definitely can do it. He's probably more loner person. Thus, they prefer to walk along and trust mainly on himself. It's a different, it's a different social structure, it's a different personality and I know a lot of successful people that did just that. All people had co-founders that are not as Dominant as them or not not as important in the company as them. They have much more A type personality and they did amazingly well also. Everybody can succeed there's no right or wrong. That's my personal preference. So, I saw more people fights with their co-founders and breaking up with their co-founders. Then I saw people were sticking with their co-founders for years. I think that one of the most popular reason, one of the most common reasons, that the companies fail is because the co-founders fights and they can't work together for a long time. It happens mainly because I think there's two main reasons. The first reason is the definition of working hard. Sometime the values of one co-founder is very different than the values of the other one. If I believe that working hard is working 18 hours a day, and not taking vacation, and not taking salaries, but my co-founder's values say that it's working 9 to 5 but working really hard, that sometimes collide. You follow values that our employees should be doing 120% and they need to stick to doing all nighters and we need to ship of the day, and the other one thinks that it should be more mellow. It's probably going to break some time. Another reason is not being sure what everybody's role is. So we decided that you're the CEO but I'm going to be involved in everything that you're going to decide even though that my definition is the CMO. This is also not going to work. And if the CEO decides to micromanage his cofounder This is also going to break, and those reasons are, I think, the main reasons that the companies fail because of founders. It's very important to have co-founders, mainly because as one person you can fall sick, you can become frail, you can run out of energy or steam, or something can get in your way as an obstacle and a co-founder can help you overcome that obstacle. So where one is strong two are powerful. Where two are powerful, three are ultimate. It also helps keep things balanced. It's good to have other opinions that are not just your own. I'm not saying sole proprietorship doesn't work, it just requires that much more out of you and sustainability can be a challenge. So having a co-founder is a very good way to have somebody like-minded support the business in a similar manner to you, while bringing their own strengths to the table. So, for me, the key advantage to having a co-founder is that you get to share the load. You both bring your strengths to the table and you're trading your strengths against the other person's weaknesses. And that makes for a very strong cohesive thing. Affectively you're marrying this other person for some period of time because you're both very committed to what it is you're trying to build So going about and finding co-founders is a lot like dating. You want to press the flesh and leverage your social network and find out who your friends know and who their friends know, but maybe not so much in a social sense but in a business sense which businesses do you know? Who do you respect in these companies and who can refer you to the right kind of people? And when you meet them it's a lot like a date, you are evaluating each other for a potential match and a commitment that's on par with marriage. Because when you actually go into business with somebody as a co-founder, it is a bonded commitment. You're spending the majority of your time with this person, you are looking in the same direction as the these people or this person and you're all committed to the same thing. I have several tips for working with business partners and co-founders. And one of those, probably the most important one, is establish a set of rules around discussing difficult things. When stress levels get high, people maybe have not slept in days and problems arise. Figuring out a framework of conversation is essential to working through these problems and without it businesses can fall apart due to infighting, or just miscommunication. There is sort of a golden rule when it comes to founding, co-founding, partner founding companies. One, obviously is easy because all decisions rest with one person. Two, is good and powerful because it's a conversation. Three, is probably the limit. I don't know that I would ever get involved in a business where there was more than three top partners who are making decisions. The reason for that is, three people form a very strong axis. You have lots of strengths on the table and all the weaknesses typically are covered. And you won't ever have one person dominating, if you do then it's actually a sole proprietor with two lackeys. So we won't get into that but a three co-founder business I found, in my experience to be very strong. One of the businesses I was part of, I was one of three co-founders and we were very powerful in what were doing because we each brought a different skill set to the table, and a different temperament given changing environments and scenarios that were playing out. So, as those things played out we each stepped up in the given situation with our skills and overcame them. Hi my name is Gil Ben-Artzy. I'm the co-founder of Upwest Labs. Upwest Labs is an early stage seed fund and accelerator based in Silicon Valley. We focus on investing in early stage startups that are looking to access the U.S. market. We focus predominantly on Israeli founders but not just. We are open for founders from around the world. The number one reason I think why startups fail is disagreements occur among cofounders. So you really want to find someone that you want to work with for the long haul. Clearly you want someone you get along, with that compliments you, but I've seen a few things that sometimes get overlooked. One is the risk profile, what does that mean? It means if you're an entrepreneur and your runway to go out there without funding is 9 to 12 months. You want to find a cofounder that shares that same long longevity without funding. Because if your cofounder only has three months to go without funding, that will create a sticky situation down the road. So yes, look for those traits of getting along, and wanting to work well, but look at the risk profile as well. Look at how long you and your cofounders can go, and be aligned with that before you start the journey. Do you need a co-founder for your startup? First let's look at the qualities of a great co-founder. It can be really difficult to find the perfect person to help you start your business, but here's a few things to keep in mind. Do they have skills that complement your own? For example, maybe you're great at marketing. If so, try finding a good programmer to balance out your skills. Do both of you have a passion for the same mission? Are they open minded enough to tackle challenges using new ways of thinking? And finally, you'll be spending a ton of time with this person, so it's really important that you get along. Next, what are some of the benefits of having a co-founder? Aside from the skills they bring to the table, a co-founder can provide emotional support along the way. Things are going to get tough and you'll be able to help each other push through these times. They also add diversity to your company, they allow you to approach problems from multiple angles at the same time. All of these qualities actually make businesses with co-founders more attractive to investors. Having a co-founder shows them the ability to begin developing a great team and has generally led to more successful businesses. It's possible to have as many or as little co-founders as you'd like, but there's a few guidelines that you can use to help make your decision. Each time you add a co-founder there are more people that need to agree on each decision which slows things down. Try to find the balance between doing things quick and being well rounded. Also, as any group grows it tends to split into smaller groups that each have their own motives. If this causes any friction between the co-founders this will tend to be amplified as your business continues to grow. Keeping all this in mind, two or three co-founders seems to be the magic number. This number provides the right mix of qualities needed to run a company. All of this depends on your business so use your discretion to decide what works best for you. So, do you think you'd like to have any co-founders for your business? Finding the right person can be a challenge. So it's a good idea to get started early. First, try to come up with an idea of who you'd like this person to be. When you're ready, try writing an email you would send, inviting them to help run your business. Let them know what you're working on, why you would like them as a partner, and how you hope to work together. This will be useful as you start your search for a co-founder. It's possible to learn business by trial and error but you don't always have to, there are many great mentors and advisors that can help you along the way. So, let's take some time to understand what a mentor is, why they're important and where you can find one. Try writing a message you can send to your future mentor. Remember to be respectful of their time, and consider why they might want to work with you on your business. There are ways to build your team without hiring full time employees. Freelancers and outsourcing provide a great opportunity to do this lets look into what you should keep in mind when first getting started with freelancers and outsourcing. What is a freelancer and how can they help you build your startup? Freelancers are workers who charge an hourly or project based rate for their skills without being considered an employee of your company. There's people with all types of skills that offer their services as freelancers and there's a few basic ideas you should understand before working with one. First let's look at some of the benefits of working with a freelancer. Freelancers can be great for your business. If you don't want to commit to a full time employee or have a limited and temporary need. For example, maybe you need to use specialized experience with a technology you don't know or need to complete a series of small tasks that would take too long to do yourself. If you have any of these requirements for your business this could be an excellent opportunity to work with a freelancer. While there are benefits to working with the freelancer., it's important to understand some of the downsides. First, working with freelancers can be very tricky. It's difficult to evaluate the skills of a freelancer and because of this it's also risky. If you don't have recommendations from people you personally know then you need to evaluate the skills of each freelancer from their portfolio. Also communication can be a problem. You'll need to be aware of language barriers and time zone differences and be patient with some of the issues this can cause. While it can be difficult to find a freelancer there are some great platforms available for you to make your decisions. To start try using websites such as Freelancer, Fiverr, and UpWork but there are many other possibilities. The benefits of using these sites is that they usually have some type of quality assurance in place for their workers. There's also often more than one person on the team to help minimize the risk that your project won't be completed. And most of your communication will be done through writing so be careful that you're clear and concise about what you need from any freelancer you're working with. Freelancers provide an amazing opportunity to get the skills you need for your business. Once you get used to the process, it can really help accelerate your growth as a company. Take some time to decide if you think it's possible to use freelancers to get any of the skills you need for your business. So it started when I was looking for someone to help me with a marketing task and I searched for someone on Elance and he said, hey I can do it. Said okay let's do it and we started talking, we had our first our discovery meeting. Scary phone call and he said, you know what by the way I also have another R&D company. And I said, really? Yeah, we have like ten people here. And I told him, I'm looking for an R&D company, do you think you can do this project? And I was just working on my first project working with a similar web and he said yeah. And since then we started working together in almost everything that they did. He became a part of the company, a real part of the company and we became partners. Because he understood what I need, I understood what he needs, we wanted to help each other. And in our relationship became so solid that eventually I came to visit him and to visit his employees because they wanted to personally know the people who are working for us on the project. I wanted them to know that I care. I do care, one of them just invited me to his wedding. And they are really great people, and I wanted to know them more in person because they're just like employees they just happen to live far, far away. And and that I was there for 36 hours but that really changed everything for us because all the sudden it's a real person, it's not an email, so it's not a Skype. It's not someone on Slack. It's a real person that you're going and having fun with went all for drinks and dinner and play ball and all of a sudden we're part of the siame group that actually meet not also only work remotely So things that can go wrong when you're outsourcing your job is low quality of work. It happens a lot of times, you're just asking someone to do something and this is not what I asked for, or this is in such low quality, how possibly can you think that I am going to accept this this job? Another thing is that they charge you more money than they should. They said they worked on this project for 50 hours, but you know that in it never took them more than five hours. What, seriously? And they can be not responsive, they're not answering emails, they're not answering your instant messages in time. The slack world is empty and basically a lot of the stuff that can happen when you remotely work with employees, it's not that different. But it's kind of more annoying. How do you find for the outsourcing vendors. That's one million dollar question. It's so hard to find them. It's even harder than hiring, because basically, you are interested in finding someone that will do the job that you need to do right now in a cheaper price but hopefully in a better quality. And this is hard. And a lot of off showing professional are still struggling with finding the perfect vendor. Because you need the job to be perfect, or at least like in very good standards. You need them to be there for you at all times, to be responsive. You need them to be aware of costs. You need them to be cost effective. And you need them to really work with you, and share the culture with you. And finding this perfect fit for the long term can be very challenging. And the best ways to find an outsourcer is [INAUDIBLE] to the best ways to find a new employee or a new partner. You're going to your friends, to your colleagues, to people you value their opinion. And you're asking them, who do you work with? When did you have a good experience with an outsourcer? You're going to events and you're trying to find professionals that are the similar to you, that are using outsourcing services. Or you're getting lucky basically. You're working with Elance or oDesk and you're trying to in you're starting to test them. You're doing a lot of professional exams, grace periods, you basically testing the waters and then eventually choosing one and that that's what I did. I worked with a lot of outsourcing companies along the years. And about a year ago, I found an outsourcing company that now I can call my partners. And I'm working with them like they were in my team. It's about twelve people. We're doing a lot of stuff every day. So because I was looking for a team and not someone for a specific task, I didn't do any programming skills tests or any other things like that that you can really quantify the result. I gave a few companies the same exact project that I had ability to evaluate myself. It was a reporting project. I wanted them to connect all kinds of data sources to one dashboard, and I told them that's what I need. That's the brief, go out and execute it. You have 100 hours to do it. Do whatever you need because one of the things that was important to me is to have also product abilities. Not just following orders, it's also to envision what you want, what I need them to do and execute on that, because they didn't want to micromanage them, I can't micromanage. So that was a test that he passed in flying colors. It was way better than what I would do. And then I know okay, we're going to work together for a long time, because this is exactly what I would expect an employee of mine. To do better than what I would do. To be better at things that I did in this. That's why I need you. I don't need you just to follow orders. I need you to think. I need you to innovate. And that was the test. At some point, you might need to start hiring employees for your startup. Now, this could be a big step, so it's important to consider how you approach finding great people for your team. So let's take some time to consider how you can start finding employees, and then hear advice from Nomen Kristie about hiring for your business. I think one of the great thing about startups is that it puts a great big hurdle in front of future employees. It tells them look, if you want to work here, you're going to take a huge salary cut. Yes, you get equity, but you're going to sacrifice a lot with the potential for amazing rewards but it's just the potential. That high bar usually attracts, potentially, those employees you want to to hire. You want to to make sure you don't try to compete with salaries, often you can't. You want to make sure that you compete with your company's vision. You want to compete with the culture, you want to compete with what it is that the company does that no other company in the world can offer because you're doing this unique thing that will have a significant impact on people's lives. Selling the vision is your number one tool to recruit and the good news is it's aligned with finding those amazing employees that can really change your company in the future. So somebody that that's applying for a job in a startup hopefully knows what they're going into. It's a very different environment compensation wise clearly, but also the scope of work and what every person gets to work on. The good news is startup work and big corporate work are very different things. Not good or bad just different. And I think employees recognize that. Making sure you explain what it takes to be an employer in your startup, how it's different than Company X perhaps that that person worked with before and just as important, acknowledging the risks Identified in corporate perhaps there's less risk. In start up life significantly more risk, but also greater rewards if the start up does well. So making sure the employee understand that risk reward balance and how that shifts between corporate to start up is really critical. There's many red flags that can come up during the interview process but I think there isn't a magic formula. I think it really comes with experience of the founders. The one thing I will say is that it's okay to take risks and hire individuals that you are uncertain of but make sure to fire quickly, as well. Because if it doesn't work, it's not just bad for the business, it's actually bad for the employee that you hired, as well. If there are red flags, clearly, you don't want to hire. But if you are unsure and there's sparks that you see in the employee, you might consider giving them a chance. Especially, if you feel like they can really push your startup forward. One thing that I have seen entrepreneurs do well is have the employee tell the story of the startup that they're applying to. What is it about the startup that they like? What are the things they look for in the next opportunity that they're doing? Usually red flags come up when they don't really understand the business or don't really identify or have different motivations to join the startup then what the founders expect them to have. For example, they're looking for a job that's close to their home. Perhaps but usually that leads to misalignments later on and of expectations later on. So I think it's important for each co-founder to interview each early employee that walks through the door in the first few months of the company. You want everybody to be aligned that this new hire is good, not only for the business, but for the company's culture. There's no one way of testing for the culture. It's really a feel. But I think there's very specific ways to test on the professional side. But on the cultural side, it's making sure that that person is aligned with what you do. So asking them about their experiences in previous places of work, the work they've had, what they liked and disliked. What are they looking for in terms of a job, right? Those are the things that you need to be ask for and then I think overspending time with that person is key. Don't just make quick hires because you need somebody to walk through the door, you spend an hour, looks good, let's get going. Actually, spend more time than you thought originally, especially in the early days of your startup. Because you want to make sure that person is right for the type of business you're building, not just professionally, but culturally as well. When hiring new employees especially the very first few, you want an employees that fundamentally believe in the vision and the mission of the company. Because that will dictate the culture going forward, you want the first few employees to really set the tone for everyone that comes after. So whatever environment, whatever culture you're trying to instill. Those early employees will help you determine that. So, if your company's such that work life balance is very important and you work 9 to 6 very hard and then everybody goes home, find employees that are aligned with that. If your company culture is different, find employees that aligned with whatever vision you have for your company because that will clearly determine a lot on future hires and the tone of the business and your style of going forward. So with hiring it can be a mixed bag. You could randomly reach out to a bunch of different companies that will sell you databases of people who are prospectively looking for jobs and you can sit down and rifle through a couple of thousand resumes. Done that, not so fun. Or you can take advantage of your existing social networks and I don't mean just jumping on Facebook and saying hey, we're hiring.. I mean press the flesh, who do you know that is talented within a specific skill set you're looking for? You know people or you know people who know people and reaching out through that network is actually really, really powerful in being able to hire the right talent and temperament within your company because doing otherwise is kind of toxic. So once you've identified maybe a bunch of people you want to interview and maybe offer a job to. Being compelling to them, why should they come on board with you beyond obviously just getting a paycheck, can be a challenge in and of itself. I personally have received many recruiting emails that say, hey, we're a hot new startup doing this thing, that I really just don't care about. So being able to infuse or fire up people's passions about what they care about is probably the most critical element in the hiring process. And having a way to engage the middle level that would let them commit to you and your business and the growth of your business over time. Doing that means being passionate about what you say and why you're doing this, and being honest, and maybe a little vulnerable, too. It's an uncomfortable place to be and requires a lot of sort of emotional intelligence on your behalf. So everybody will tell hire the A players. Don't bring B players or A minus players, and that's a no brainer. Everybody wants the A players. The whole thing is to get them, especially when you're small. So let's say that you're a new company. You don't have any money at all, or you are not even worth, you have half a million or one million in funding. You supposed to be able to offer something to your employees, but you know that you can't because you have a that it's very limited. So you can offer all kinds of things. First of all, you can offer stock options. That's, again, that's obvious. You can offer your first employees options that hopefully will get them rich very soon. Another thing that you can offer them besides salary, is specific, sorry, another thing that you can offer them is benefits. Some benefits will go a long way, like health plans and subscriptions to gyms. It depends on where you live. If you live in San Francisco, that's nothing. But if you live Midwest, that's something else. It's more popular there. The most important thing that a new company can offer the employees is sense of purpose and culture. Because if you have a good culture, you have something special, you have that good vibe going on in your office. It's worth more than money to some people. People would like to go to work for you because you give them an experience back. You give them the option to work with amazing people for a great company. They feel that they really contribute, and this is something that goes a long way. Another thing that you can offer your new employees is to give them the option to work with people they see as important, as smarter than them, more experienced, people they can actually learn something from. People that will help them get more advanced in their career. They can learn from, they can build something special with those people. And this is something that you can't buy with money, okay. It's worth more than an extra 10 or $20,000 a year. Congratulations on making it through the lesson. Hopefully you have a better understanding of where to find the people that you need to build your team. Co-founders, mentors, freelancers and employees all provide an excellent opportunity to grow your business. You still need to get out there and find your team but now you're prepared to make it happen. And remember the team that you build is there support you, your goals, and your vision. When you're ready come to the next lesson and we'll learn about bootstrapping or securing financing for your business. Welcome to the lesson. When building your startup, you need a way to finance everything. In this lesson, you'll learn some of the options available to fund your business. We'll look into bootstrapping, loans, angel investors, venture capitalists, accelerators and incubators. Each of these options have their own benefits and downsides. We'll spend some time going over each of them. You'll also hear from entrepreneurs and investors about their experiences financing their businesses. By the end of the lesson, you'll be ready to decide which of these options provide you the best opportunity for your startup. Are you interested in financing your business yourself? Then maybe Bootstrapping is the right choice for you. Let's look into what Bootstrapping is, why it might be a good choice, and why it might not be the right fit. We'll also hear from Chris B, a serial entrepreneur by his experiences Bootstrapping, what he liked and what limitations he came up against. Try using his experience to decide a Bootstrapping is the right choice for you. So, bootstrapping is the act of pulling yourself up by your bootstraps, really. It's a form of flying, and in business, what you do with bootstrapping, or what it means is, you're going to take what's immediately available to you. What's within arm's reach? What value can you pull out of the things that are immediately accessible to you? It does not mean reaching out to others or asking someone to to give you something that you can then carry forward. Bootstrapping is about independence, it's about self value. It's about creating something that will allow you to scale your business or effort down the road starting essentially from nothing. So when I was in high school, I grew up in Canada in the Toronto area specifically in the Milton area. And there really wasn't a lot of money to be had when I was in high school. Poor kids running around farm country. And I had a friend who had a truck, and one day he turned to me and said, hey you're smart. Why don't you figure out a way that we could make some money. And I was just like okay, so as he would drive me to and from school I kept looking out the window as you do when you're driving and I would see farm equipment everywhere. Old farm equipment rooting in fields rusted, dilapidated etc. One day, we were in the town and we passed by building that had a huge sign over it that said, we buy your scrap metal. Research revealed that this was a recycling plant and then it struck me. Hey, my friend's got a truck. There's all this old farm equipment rotting in fields that's obviously not wanted. And here's a place that's willing to buy metal. So I turned my friend and I said hey, how would you feel about calling these people up or just visiting them out of the blue and saying why don't you pay us to remove your old equipment that's just dying in your yard. We'll take it away. And then we would take that equipment to the recycle plant. He thought this was a brilliant idea. He was willing to contribute his truck and both of us would use our physical prowess to move this heavy equipment. And shortly after doing that, we had quickly cleared out the territory that we were in, farm equipment and had quite a bit of money in our bank accounts. Let's look into whether bootstrapping your business is the right option for you. Before we get started, what is bootstrapping? Bootstrapping is the act of financing your business using your own personal resources. You'll use what you currently have available to start building and growing your company. There are a few things to be aware of before considering bootstrapping for your business. First let's look at some of the benefits. We'll focus on three major benefits of bootstrapping, freedom, profits and commitment. First, freedom. Financing your business yourself provides you a level of freedom not available to you once investors become involved. Sometimes you need to be flexible and make tough choices. Being on your own, you don't need to rationalize with investors. This will allow you to make your own decisions about what is best for the company. That said, you can't build a business in a vacuum. Successful bootstrappers leverage their personal and professional networks and grow their businesses organically. Remember to focus on your customer base, social presence, and the momentum you generate through your business's popularity. Next, profits. Without investors, the profits your business generates come straight to you. When bootstrapping, you retain equity in your company and hold shares that would normally go to investors if they had put money into your startup. And finally, commitment. There's nothing that gets you motivated to figure out your business quite like financing it yourself. Bootstrapping can give you the extra incentive needed to work the long hours necessary to become successful. This experience can definitely help you become a more resourceful entrepreneur. While there are benefits to bootstrapping, it's important to understand some ways it might not be so great. Let's focus on three major downsides of bootstrapping, expenses, connections, and credibility. First, expenses. Launching your startup can take a lot of money. Trying to supply this on your own can become detrimental to your personal expenses. This could end up affecting decisions you make. If you're low on money, you might end up making changes that aren't in the best interest of your company to chase early profits. This can really stunt your long term growth. Next, connections. A lot of investors have been in business for many years and have access to tons of resources. Working on your own you have less of these resources available for your business. You also lose any access to the people within the investors network who could advise you as you build your company. When bootstrapping, you're missing out on some of these opportunities for growth. And finally, being backed by the right investor gives immediate credibility to your business. When bootstrapping you might not be able to get this otherwise. Without investor support, it could make it more difficult to get investment in later seed rounds. So, take some time to consider the benefits and downsides of Bootstrapping your startup. When you're ready, decide if you think this would be a good option for your business. The benefits of bootstrapping are, I mean there's so many, I could go on for hours but I won't. Benefits of bootstrapping essentially come down to manifest destiny. You are in control of everything that you are doing. Assuming that you're a sole proprietor if you have partners, well you have some control might be limited with with a little bickering between your team. But fundamentally you are in control of your life, or you will feel in control of your life in what you're doing. It's a very powerful sense of being when you have that. Second thing is you get to define your own rules for the most part. I mean, obviously, you can't stray off the path and start breaking the laws. But you are free to dictate the path forward for yourself and what that value means for your company or your business. The other advantages are you're not going to ever become beholden to somebody for the actions you're taking. Now if the value that you are trading is parts of your company or parts of your product that go into perpetuity like giving someone a percentage in exchange for money, that's not bootstrapping. That's selling your business or selling your products, and you want to steer away from that if you're bootstrapping. Bootstrapping is the pure creation process of taking something or creating something that wasn't there before and making it a thing that generates value for you into the future. Bootstrapping can really, really test your soul in a lot of ways. You have to have a thick, thick skin because people are going to tell you that what you're doing isn't valuable or they're not going to see your perspective, so you have to have resolute belief in your core goal for you to be successful in this space. Bootstrapping is often looked at as or it can be looked at as you're crazy or that's never going to work or how could anybody find value in that. You'll hear a lot of naysayers and I think it's overcoming the mental games, both externally and internally, that are what makes bootstrapping hard. You can't listen to the negative voices that are are telling you you can't do it. If you've started off with the belief that you can, test that theory all the way through. You owe it to yourself. Sometimes when you're bootstrapping, you don't have access to all the resources that you need. In this situation, you could consider debt financing to help start your business. If you choose to do this, there are some things that you need to be aware of and a few financial professionals that you should consult with. So let's hear some of the basics of debt financing for your business. Let's look into whether debt financing your business is the right option for you. We'll first define debt financing, then hear about the benefits and downsides of choosing this option. So first, what is it? Debt financing is basically any form of loan you could get to help start your business. Banks, lenders, or any other source of income that you need to pay back is all a form of debt. When using debt financing as an option, the main thing to consider is that you'll be paying back the loans you get over an extended period of time. Each payment will include a principal plus interest. The principal payment is the amount that will go towards paying the original loan amount. The interest charge will vary depending on the loan, but this is the amount you owe on top of the principal payment as a fee for borrowing money from your lender. There are a few benefits and downsides to be aware of before considering debt financing for your business. So first, what are some of the benefits? Let's overview three of them, ownership, taxes, and interest rates. First ownership, when borrowing money from a bank or any other lender for your business, you have the same agreement as with any other loan. You're agreeing to make your payments on time, and that's it. >From there, you can make whatever decisions you want about your business, and the lender stays out of the way. This lets you get the money you need, while maintaining full ownership of your business. Next, taxes. When you get a loan for your business, the payments you make are considered tax deductible business expenses. Tax laws vary widely based on where you live and may also be impacted by where you choose to incorporate your business. This is a great way to minimize the cost of any loan you accept. Just be sure to diligently track your expenses or get an accountant to make sure you're getting the returns you should be. And finally, you can get lower interest rates for your business loans. Look through any options you may have, and choose the one that's best for your business. This is a big decision. This can get pretty complicated, so I suggest you consult with an accountant before making any major decisions like this for your startup. While there are some benefits to debt financing, it's important to understand some of the potential downsides to choosing this option. Let's overview three major downsides, repayment, unaffordable rates, and credit rating. First, repayment, when you take a loan, you don't have to give up any control, but you will need to continue making payments, possibly for a very long time. If your business doesn't work out, and you aren't making profits to help make these payments, your lender still wants their money. Next, unaffordable rates, after considering your tax deductions and discounts, you might still be getting a pretty high interest rate from your lender. It's tough enough to run a business without having to worry about making an extra 20% interest on top of your other expenses. And finally, be careful about your credit rating. If you choose to take out a personal loan, it may affect your credit score. Having extra marks on your credit score makes you a bigger risk to your lender, and you'll end up paying for that at even higher interest rates. One option to overcome this downside is to obtain a business loan. It is more difficult due to logistical issues, but the advantage is that it won't affect your personal credit score. While debt financing is possible, it's a really tough way to go and could be pretty devastating if things don't go according to plan. It's best to validate the success of your product by seeking investment or by operating a business with personal expenses you can afford to lose. If you decide debt financing is right for you, be very careful about how you plan your business and do plenty of research. The process of bootstrapping is probably different for every individual or business that's trying to do it. But in essence, I think it breaks down into a few core phases. One, identification of need. I need money, or I need this thing. I need this value. Once you've identified what that is, that kind of turns into your goal. And then it's what do I have that can help me get that thing that I've identified that I need? So if it's money I maybe need more customers. How do I get more customers? Well, I have this stuff that's in my inventory or I have the skill that I can apply or I have this resource that I can break down into smaller pieces and sell. Something that you have at your disposal already that you can then scale its value rapidly. And then it's the act of actually doing that and following through and while doing that figuring out how to turn it into a sustainable offering so that way it doesn't just die out over time. So to summarize it's three phases, identification of problem, location and allocation of immediate resources and the third thing that's important that kind of encompasses the other two is figuring out the longevity of whatever it is you've done. Summary of bootstrapping is identifying what do you want. What's your goal? What is the thing that you were trying to achieve? Second thing is looking for that item or skill or talent or resource that thing that will generate the value for you. And the third thing is identifying how you can turn that into a sustainable platform to continue that growth into the future. Now, maybe go shopping sounds right for your business, but maybe not. It's important to consider what other financing options you have available. Spending on your business, you might want to start seeking investment. Angel investors, venture capitalists, accelerators, and incubators all provide different opportunities to get the resources that you need. Let's look into who these investors are, and how they can help your business. So what are some reasons you might want to consider investment for your business? Let's look at what investing is then go over some of the benefits and downsides of choosing this option for your startup. First, what is investing? Investing is the process of putting money into something in hope of financial or material gain. So, when you're looking for investors you'll be dealing with people who want to give you money upfront in exchange for later returns on this initial investment. The motivations of each individual investor may vary, but keeping their incentives in mind will help you better understand the benefits and downsides of dealing with investors. So, why might you consider working with these investors? Let's overview three of them, funding, contacts, and motivation. First, funding. An obvious benefit of dealing with investors is that they have money available to help you jumpstart your business. With investment, you can expand more quickly and allocate some of the risk to your investors. Next, contacts and advice. Many investors have groups of other investors, entrepreneurs, and advisors they associate with. You can use their contacts to seek more funding. It's in an investor's best interest to help you get the resources you need and the right investor will be able to provide them. And finally, motivation. An investment is in some ways like a marriage. If you marry the wrong person, working with them will be miserable, and they may end up sinking the business. But finding the right investor means both monetary investment and personal investment. They'll be there through many of the obstacles you face and will give a second set of eyes on what you're spending your money on. If having someone else around helps provide the motivation you need then an investor can be a great asset to your company. So, those are some of the benefits of working with investors, but what are some of the downsides? Let's look at three, rate of return, communication, and control. First, rate of return. Above all else, investors are trying to make money, and they expect a higher rate of return than what traditional investments can provide. What is important to an investor is how your plan ends up with more money in their pockets. It can be difficult to balance this pressure from investors with your original vision. Because of this you'll end up needing to communicate your decisions with investors. You'll spend more time explaining your ideas and dealing with the political aspects of your company. And finally, control. Sometimes the decisions you make won't be well accepted and could even scare away potential investors. Even though it is your company, once an investor is involved, you've given up some of the control you had over the direction you take. Does reaching out to an investor seem like a good option to you? Take some time to consider each of the benefits and downsides of working with investors for your startup. So the benefits and downsides of bootstrapping versus investing. In a bootstrapping scenario you are in control of what you're able to do right now, without looking anywhere else. You can immediately take action this very second. You can pause this video and go and take action if you're bootstrapped. If you're investing, well, now you gotta think a little bit more carefully how you're going to discuss what your goals and ideas are. You need to communicate very clearly what it is you want, what it is you're doing, and why this person or group of people should give you money to do it. On the flip-side, negative aspects of bootstrapping are, if you are sitting in a room that has nothing in it and your arms are tied behind your back, your bootstrapping round is over. [LAUGH] And there's very little you can actually do. And if you find yourself in a situation where there really isn't anything that you have at your disposal that can help you bootstrap something, you're kind of stuck. And that's where investment can really be a lifesaver. Because you can reach out to somebody, or a group of people for help, who might have the resources for that key element you need to do that thing that will make your business successful in this space. So there's a time in almost every business where you're going to need to scale beyond what you have available to you resource wise. And at this point, you have to reach out to investors because otherwise, it's sink or swim. You won't be able to get to that next level. You won't be able to grow or scale your business, and sometimes without growth or skill your business is in trouble. So at that point, you want to bring an investor in. And in the case of one of my companies, we had to bring an investor in because we had to hire more people and we had to scale up our technology production. And that was a very lengthy and involved process overall. It took almost a year just to close that first round of financing. Typically you're going to spend the first eight months on some form of a road show. This is where you, you yourself, or you and your business partners, or just your business partner, will travel to different investor groups, and possibly trade shows looking for new investors, and basically do the pitch. Here's what we're doing, here's what we believe, here's the course we're on, here's why we feel we'll succeed, and here's why we need your money. And once you've done that for, anywhere, five to eight months, you'll get a few bites. And those bites lead to meetings. And those meetings whittle down to one key, core meeting. That first investor who's going to open their checkbook and give you a wad of cash. My understanding of the main difference between a unicorn investor and sort of a long tail investor is a unicorn investor is looking for other investors to pile on. That's where they make their money. So, a first investor in a unicorn company will say, hey, you know what, I think this could be sold as a billion dollar company. I'm going to put in enough money to make the valuation a billion dollars. That sets off a press cycle. That press cycle is a feeding frenzy for other investors who want to also pile on. And as those other investors pile on, the first investor is actually reaping the benefits of these other additional pile ons. But that whole business model of investors feeding on investors is dependent on no drop in valuation, which requires continued growth with the company that's been invested in, either in the technology space, the people space, the market space, some metric that they consider important has to keep getting bigger or more valuable, even though it's only perceived value, the whole business can fall apart if the true value of the company is never realized. This is where tech bubbles come from actually. Now in the long tail investor side of things, those investors are actually interested in legitimately helping Bootstrap companies and make them successful and sustainable because they see the sustained long term value of investing in a spread of different businesses that will be around in 20 or 50 years. It's that continued growth but slowly without that get rich quick kind of mentality. Those are the investors actually I prefer because it actually benefits society and is a good place for you to put your business trust. You need to pick your investors very carefully, probably as carefully that you want to pick your your co-founders. Because while you can part from a co-founder, it's very hard to part form an investor. He have money. He put money in your company and the money's gone, and what now? It will be very hard to buy him out. So, you need to make sure that you're taking money from someone you can work with and you can learn form and can bring actual value to you in your company. Because if you're working with someone who just can't bring you money. There's this horrific expression, friends, fools and family. And what is fools? You're taking money from a fool. It's so bad. It's getting the entrepreneur condescending, yeah, I'll take money from that fool. Or you're taking money from someone who can't help you. It's horrible and it makes entrepreneur seems stupid. So, never take money from a fool. And try not to take money from family also. And not from friends. I hate that expression, family, friends, it's horrific. But choosing the right investor can make or break your company. Because a bad investor that try to micromanage the company and try to micromanage you. And demands explanations. And wants to be involved in everything. Can really make you miserable. And if you're not experienced you don't know how to put him in his place. And it can make your life very, very hard. A good investor can make your company, can help you do everything. But a bad investor, and there's more bad investors than good investors, can really hurt you. And there's not enough money in the world to to make this worthwhile. What are angel investors and how can they help you finance your business? Angel investors are people who invest their own money into a new business, offering capital for startup or expansion. These investors usually aren't rich, but like the idea of investing in startups as an alternative to returns they could be getting by investing in stocks. Considering these motivations is important when understanding some of the benefits and downsides of working with them. So let's look at some benefits of working with angel investors. Here's three, investment amounts, accessibility, and ease of engagement. First, investment amounts. Angels tend to be willing to invest an amount of money that's great for many startups. As an estimate, it's possible to get from as little as $25,000 to as much as 1.5 million for your startup. Next, accessibility. Angels can really be anywhere. These are just people with some extra money to invest looking for the right startup to get some good returns. They could be right down the street or at local meet-ups. You'll find it much easier to get in touch with angels than with any other type of investor. And finally, ease of engagement. Once you've found an angel who is interested, it's generally pretty easy to get through the paperwork. You're also likely to get paid in a single lump sum. This can speed up the time it takes for you to get some money and start growing your business. So those are some of the benefits of angel investors. Now, what are some of the downsides? Let's look at three, high rate of return, risk aversion, and control. First, they'll want a pretty high rate of return on their original investment. You're competing with their option to invest in the stock market and if you don't provide enough growth, they're probably not interested. Next, risk aversion. Angels aren't using expendable income that they can afford to lose. No one likes losing money, but the financial situation of these investors makes them particularly cautious with the way they invest. You're less likely to get an angel investment if you have any high risk, high reward type of plan for your startup. And finally, because they want a high rate of return, they can try to be pretty controlling. Angel investors may want to be involved in more of the decisions you'll make and could end up affecting the direction of your business. They could be helpful, but be sure to balance their advice with what you believe is best for the company. Angel investors can provide an excellent opportunity for growth in the early stages of your company. Take some time to consider the positives and negatives of dealing with these investors, then decide if this option is right for you One of the things we didn't talk about the feature is, I've done a fair amount of angel investing. So, we've seen a lot of people come in and pitch ideas, and when you're watching people that pitch these ideas, there's a lot you can tell from body language, a lot that you can tell about how people talk about how they got into the current area that they're in and the problem that they want to want to solve. And you can really feel that passion. I think as far as growing a team around you, as an entrepreneur or as an investor, you can look at the entrepreneur and you can see, well who's helping them? Who are their advisors? Who are the people who have already signed up, maybe before there's ever any money, before the business is formed? And you can see as far is to see a lot of evidence of whether the person can really do this or not. What are incubators and accelerators and how can they help your startup? Incubators and accelerators are programs meant to speed up the growth and success of startups. They provide resources for your idea and give you the focus and direction necessary to gain some traction for your business. Think of them basically like how an incubator works for an egg. The egg, like your idea, already exists, but it's the resources and careful nurturing of it that allow it to grow into its new environment. Let's take a look at some of the benefits of working with incubators and accelerators. The main benefits you'll get in these programs are networking and services. First, networking, incubators and accelerators provide a ton of opportunities for networking between you, other entrepreneurs, and coaches that are part of the program. This can help you gain the foundation you need to mature as a business. Next, services, the connections you get often extend beyond coaches, into networks you can use to get funding, services, and mentorship, which can be an invaluable asset to the growth of your startup. If you don't currently have a strong network or don't know where to get the skills you need, this can be a great place to start. So those are some of the benefits but what are some of the downsides. Here's two focus and equity. First while all this guidance and networking can be an incredible experience, this can make it difficult to focus on your business and give it the attention it needs to grow effectively. Make sure to find the balance between meeting people to talk about your business and actually building it. Next equity, both incubators and accelerators are meant to jumpstart your business and what they want in return is equity. You're likely to get a substantial amount of equity in return for your experience. If your business takes off, this could become very costly later on. You'll need to be sure the value you're getting is worth the value you're giving up. If you have strong connections or are growing quickly already, then these programs might not provide the right value for you moving forward. There are tons of incubators and accelerators to choose from and none of them are quite the same. So it's difficult to gauge how effective they could be for your business. Explore different options and take some time to consider if you think incubators or accelerators could be right for your business. So what's an incubator? So, incubators have been around for a long time. Idea Lab, back in the early 2000s and 1990s was one of the first ones. And what incubators are, it's a group or kind of an organization that has their own ideas, but they need teams to build those ideas. So in a sense what you're doing in an incubator is you're going to work for a holding company that has ideas and you're going in building those ideas. Now if the ideas take off and that business becomes successful, then they spin out and then they become a private company. But initially, you're going to work for somebody else. You're working on their idea, and you're trying to get to a point where it can eject from this mother ship. So accelerators are interesting, there are a lot of accelerators. There's accelerators that universities have put together, that corporations have put together, and then there's the sort of private investment vehicle accelerators like Y Combinator, and there's a lot of them. The interesting thing about accelerators is the jury's still out on the efficacy of accelerators. There's a huge question out there of, if a company goes to an accelerator program or doesn't go to an accelerator program, what are the odds of success? Does an accelerate or increase the likelihood of success? And there's a lot of research going on in that at Yael Hochberg at MIT and Susan Cohen at the University of Richmond are publishing all kinds of papers, based on this using crunch based data. And we saw a recent study from U.C. Berkeley, which showed that while it's still difficult to tell whether accelerators increase the odds of success, one thing that accelerators are doing is they're making companies fail faster. Because the mentors and the feedback that the entrepreneurs are getting help everybody understand, is this a problem that's worth solving? Is this a business that's going to make it or not? And it's moving much faster within the environment of an accelerator versus outside of an accelerator. So that is something that definitely has been proven thus. So if you're thinking about joining an accelerator, one of the downsides could be the amount of equity that you have to give up in return for the money that you're getting. Most accelerators will take a fairly significant piece of equity in return for all of the mentorship and the guidance that they provide. And what you have to ask yourself is, do you already have that network that's going to provide you all that feedback? Or are you interested in having the accelerator do it? Because there is a cost associated with it. Otherwise, when you look at an accelerator and you evaluate it, you really need to evaluate the accelerator based on that group of people that's going to help you, and whether you think that they're going to help you solve the specific problem you're trying to solve. I think the best way to followup with somebody you met at a networking event that made an impression is, of course, send them a thank you email. But it's really about finding that one thing you spoke about in your conversation that you want to mention again in that email that would make this email specific and not a generic email that the person thinks you sent out to everyone. I think also having an action item is a great thing. Perhaps, following up with a coffee chat or a Skype call or maybe you talked about an interesting topic and if this followup email will include an article about this or something that you wrote or found recently. Trying to make a connection after the event is just as important, if not more important, than the connection in the event I think that entrepreneurs, when they go out to fundraise, they have to think about it like, I think, getting married. You are about to bring somebody on board to your business that you can't undo afterwards. So once you bring on board investors, it's not only just your business. And you have to acknowledge that and you have to believe that that's the right thing for you and that's the right thing for the business. If you can bootstrap, great. If you don't have to fundraise, great. But for the vast majority of businesses in today's tech world, you have to go out and raise money. So the downside perhaps is that it's no longer your business. I actually think it can be a very good thing, because now you're accountable not just to yourself but for other people as well and people that put their trust and money in you. And that I find to be a very invigorating thing for a lot of entrepreneurs, who already are working super hard, actually upping their game, because they appreciate the responsibility that comes with raising capital. So the process for actually getting an investment varies depending on who you're taking the money from. So for example, in places like an accelerator like in effect it's very structured. There is a date in which have to submit your application. The application there includes many questions. We then review the application. We invite part of the companies for interviews. They come for interviews, we decide who it is. We have a date in which we announce to them that they're in, so that's very structured and very easy. Which is a big benefit for the company, because they know when it starts, they know when it ends. When you look at angel investors or early stage funders, it's very different. The reason is that the angel investor or the funder not have any risk constraints on when do they need to invest. And as the early stage investor, theoretically the best thing for you is to delay a little bit and see what's going to happen next, and what's going to happen next. And sure if you're about to launch something, I'll be stupid to not wait and see how does that go right? Because I'm going to give you money. Now that's not true of course, why? Because as an investor if you're delaying the company, you're basically setting yourself up for failure because as we said, speed is the most important thing. However, the outcome of this is that the processes are very unstructured. And I can tell you that there were companies where, at the end of a one hour meeting, I told them I'm in. And then we worked on the documents for another few days and I invested. And I can tell you there were companies that took me half a year to invest. Because it took me half year to cross the chasm of believing in the team. That the team is strong enough where there's something that we call here's product market fit that everybody knows, but there's also what's called a founder product fit or a founder market fit. And so, many times it takes me a period of time to get to know the founders, to believe that they're the right people to win this domain. And many times they're great people but they're just not the right people for this domain. So it's everything from one hour to six months and it is for the entrepreneur to manage the process. That's one of the things that entrepreneur are missing in most times, in most cases. And when I said to manage the process clearly part of it is creating this vector of movement of investors that are starting to invest in your company. Because investors at the end of the day they're people and as people, well most of them are people, and as people there is the herd effect. And when you hear that other people started committing it makes your life a lot easier. And so as investor, you need to sort of plan to have everything culminates to people starting to invest and then going gone and everybody investing. That does include planning side which we know that was possible. But when I say managing the process, the meaning is that you do not need, you can't let the ball drop. And if you expect the investor to be the one leading the process then you're wrong because the investor has 50 like you, that are all waiting. And it's going to be the ones that are driving the process that are going to be getting more attention. And so I'm not and there is the thin line between nagging and overdoing it and running the process properly. But if you're just sitting in there waiting for the email to come back and waiting for somebody to set up the meeting and not being proactive, you're losing on two form. The first thing is that somebody else is doing to consider getting less attention. The second thing, your ability to present the right character to the investor goes away. And so be proactive, manage the process. And know that by basically getting many investors to get to the decision point at the same time you're dramatically increasing your chance of raising the money you want. So what will people ask me and my happy with all my past investments? I say that is the same question like saying would you as manager high school life the same that as you managed them when you were a kid knowing all you know now and the answer of course no. I would have been great in high school today, would had a great time. And similarly when you start investing there's many things that you miss out. At least for me there were many things I missed out on and then I only learned over the years. I think that if there's one thing that is the most critical thing is that earlier on I think my balance between team and idea was very different. I think that if you gave me a great idea, or something that looked like a great idea with a mediocre team, I might have gone for it and I actually have in the past. Because my view was, which was a wrong view, that at the end of day the ideas is very material in that. The reality being at the end of the day that as I said most companies that come even with the best of ideas find out very quickly that they don't have product market fit which is a very depressing thing. You start out, you start running you go to the customers you do customer discovery bang suddenly you find out that nobody wants what you thought is the best idea in the world. At that point your ability to go back to the drawing board come up with a new assumption try again and again and again and again depends mostly on your character. And so if you believe like I do that nobody is born with the ability to predict exactly what's going to be the idea that works. And even if you're born with that you don't know what Google is going to do tomorrow, what Facebook's going to do tomorrow, right? And then, you know, you can work on something for years and then Google comes and says, I do that for free now. And so it's the ability of the founders to look at the market, understand it, look at the customers, understand their needs. Come up with ideas that serve these needs and enter it very fast to success which is the main thing that will determine their success ratio. And so the initial idea, the only thing it does is that it tells me whether they're really smart or not because really smart people don't come with really stupid ideas usually. But other than that, I don't put a lot of focus on this and I used to do that in the past. So when I look at some of the companies that invested in early on I probably would not have invested because I had thought that some of the teams were okayish, not perfect. But the ideas were good and these company, it's clearly did not succeed. When I think about how entrepreneur should work with investors that basically is broken down between before investment and after investment, it's two separate stages. However, there are some common things that entrepreneur should always keep in mind and the first thing to keep in mind is the across the entire process, in the entire life cycle is that the honesty, transparency, and openness are probably your best tool as an entrepreneur to keep a good relationship with your investor. At the end of the day the investor does not sit in the company every day. And the thing that are really trivial and really apparent for you as to use as an entrepreneur are not that clear to the investor that meet you every few weeks, or every month, or every few month. And so when you do not update or invest, when you're not open, when you're not transparent, it's very easy to lose the trust. It's very easy to get to the point where the investor feels that something's been hidden, that it's not been you know, it's not been fully shared and this is really bad and that's bad from the beginning from when you want to start creating the relationship all the way up till you exit of the company. And you've gotta understand that the relationship with the investor is a long term relationship. The average entrepreneur is going to either fail within an average of 24 months, 18 to 24 months, or succeed, which is going to take an average of four to five years. And so, this is a long term journey and if you're going to be with somebody, engaged, for four to five years, more than most relationship in the world right, if you're going to beat that, if you're going to be successfully doing that, you really have to think how you're building a trust based relationship which is based not just on liking each other because over time you may not necessarily become great friends. But you need to maintain that relationship, so that the first thing is transparency and openness. I think that when you come as an entrepreneur to an investor, you need to think what are the thing that the investors would really want to see. And what the investors want to see, the investors want to see your character, so you need to bring out your character and who you are. The next thing that the investors want to see is that you're serious. And being serious meaning treating yourself seriously, treating the investors seriously, treating the investors' time seriously, coming prepared, answering questions properly. One of the things I do is that when somebody sends me a presentation over e-mail, before I meet them there is like a very tenacious process of back and forth questions that I would send. It could have come to like you know 40 emails going back and forth. Because what I want to see is not necessarily the answers they give me but I want to see the seriousness in which they're taking this. So if I ask them a question, I want to see that they come back with a reasonable answer. And I want to see how long it takes. I'll give an example, two weeks ago somebody wrote me an e-mail. I told them, I would love to see the market map of this thing. And they told me, okay, sure it's going to take us two weeks. When I got back to them and said why is it going to take two weeks? Are you busy with something else, is there something that I'm missing, and they said well, we're doing lots of things. And then you think to yourself, if it's going to take them two weeks to create a market map, that clearly they should have had before, but if it's going to take them now two weeks to update it, to recreate it then what's going to happen when a customer's going to tell them I need something now. And what's going to happen if they're going to launch something and consumers are going to basically tell them by their behavior that that's not what they want. Is it also going to take them two weeks to start moving and so that was a very short discussion right. And so through these questions and answers I learn not necessarily about the business itself although a bit of that as well but mostly about the character of the entrepreneurs and I'm trying to see whether they're the kind of people that I want to invest in. And the people I want to invest in are these stars. They're the people that have fire in their eyes, they love when they do, they wake up in the morning and they want to conquer the world. And the speed in which they're moving and speed is the most important thing for an entrepreneur, the speed in which they're moving is appropriate for the market challenges that they're going to tackle. And people think that speed is only for internet companies, for app companies, but it's not true. If you want to start a medical devices company, the speed may be different in terms of, you're not going to have an app out in three month. But if you're not going to move fast, somebody else is going to eat your lunch. And so this process is something that tells me about entrepreneurs. And I think that entrepreneurs need to think very carefully about how they present themselves, and how ready they come and how fast they can move in the interaction with the investor, if they really want to get the money. And you know on the speed side, my partner James likes giving what I think is the best analogy for speed, which I think entrepreneurs would enjoy, and that is that when you are playing chess against a grand master, then you don't stand a chance, right there you know there are geniuses, but even I play pretty average chess, if you let me do take two moves for every move of the master, I'm going to win. Because that's just the way it is, and when you're a young company the only thing you have as your weapons against the large corporates is your speed. They have more people, they have more energy, they have more money, they can market harder, they can do whatever they want but they are moving slow. And so as a startup if you do not move at least twice as fast as the large corporates you're not going to win. So you know, that's what into entrepreneurs need to be ready in general for and that's what I'm looking for and that's what they need to be able to present to investors because all the smart investors more than anything else, they would look at character and speed, these are the two things. So I think that many times when you ask an entrepreneur, when an entrepreneur asks me what investors should I pick up, or how should I choose my investors? The first answer I give them is just like that, just like I expect you fast as possible. You should expect your investors to move the fast as possible. In between getting a great investor in three months, or getting a good investor now, go for the good investor now. And then fulfill the rest of your needs in terms of people that will help you through advisors or anything else. I think that this is good advice in general, because as I said, speed is the most important thing. If you don't have money, you cannot move. In many cases, you cannot hire more people. And so this is really critical. Having said that, you've gotta make sure that you don't get investors in that basically become a liability on the company. And the kind of investors that could become a liability on the company, are those that are either very bad in the way they manage the relationship with the founders. That's one thing. Or they will demand all kind of terms that would basically take away either the control of the destiny of the company or slow down the company. And so, when I see investors that are requiring extreme veto rights, or they're requiring to be the ones approving stuff, or investor I've even seen investor that say I want to sign on amounts of the company spends above a certain level. I stay away from these and the reason is because as I said I wanted the entrepreneur to be able to move fast and interact fast, and if each such movement and iteration is going to be slowed down by investors that want to be part of it, then the company's going to have a liability that I don't like. And so, all things equal, go with good investors that move fast. However, make sure that you do not take money from people that could become a liability. How do you know that? First of all, get a good lawyer. And a good lawyer is not necessarily one of the large firms, but it's somebody that deals with many start ups. And make sure that the lawyer explains to you what are the terms that are in the contract that are going to slow you down. And these are the ones you need to insist on, on removing the ones that slow you down. The second thing, never take money from an investor without talking to at least one company, preferably more, that they invested in. Just like the investor due diligence is you, you need to due diligence them because that's marriage. They are going to be together for years now. And so, if you're not going to basically talk to somebody that already worked with them and get honest review of them, then you're not doing yourself justice. And just like an investor is not doing its job if they're not doing due diligence in the company, you're on the doing your job if you not due diligence in the investors. And after all of that, when you get the list of people that passed your due diligence and that are willing to move fast, only then start thinking about who's the best. Only then start thinking about who can help me the most and who can bring me the most value. And then, when you think about who can bring me the most value, it's important to not think about who brings me the most value hands on, because you don't want your investors to be hands on with the business that you're building. It's two things, is who gives me the most credibility in the market. Because let's say that you're building an open table like business, and if you've got an investor which is an open table x executive that brings you lots of credibility with investors. So, that's one thing that can bring you value. The other thing is if you get access to their network. So, look at the network of the person. These are the two things to look for. Credibility that it gives you, a network that you can use. When an entrepreneur goes to me and investor for the first time, I think that the most important thing to be able to do, is articulate what your business is and what your vision is, quickly and so simply. People talk about pitch decks as being ten slides is like an ideal thing. Now imagine if you're just going and meeting somebody for coffee or you're standing in a conference in years just talking to them. It's got to be even more condensed than that. And you have to be able to demonstrate passion, knowledge of what the business is and a real plan to succeed. And you have to be able to do that quickly. And it takes a lot of practice to get there. In order to establish connections with investors you have to network. The question is, where do you start? And you can start by going to events and meeting people there, you can start through your own personal network that's already in place, but the key thing is you have to establish that network. And there are various tools you can use to help with that, but there's no way around it. Investors are receiving pitches and business plans from people all the time. And what they're really going to end up paying attention to is something whether some personal connection with the idea. There's a personal connection with whoever the founder is and that's what you need As an entrepreneur, when you start working with an investor, there are some compromises that are going to have to be made. And one way of thinking about that is when you make your first pitch to an investor, the investor starts formulating in their mind what they think this company should become, what the product should be. And that may not be the same idea that you have in your head as the entrepreneur. And actually, part of picking the right investors is, is there alignment between these visions, the vision that the investor shares and the vision that the entrepreneur shares? And no matter how close those two visions are, sometimes there's going to be some differences. And as an entrepreneur, what you have to decide is when the investor's vision is slightly different, are you going to adjust? Are you going to course correct? And when you're thinking about doing that and you're thinking about those compromises, it's important to take a step back and think about it from the investor's perspective. They're not in the weeds. They're not in the detail. Maybe they're looking at the bigger picture. Maybe they're looking at other companies in the marketplace. And you have to constantly evaluate, should you course correct or should you really remain on your vision? Ultimately though, if you're taking money from investors, there are going to be compromises you have to make. They're going to ask you to do things that may not have been your first priority and, sometimes you're just going to have to do that. And it comes down to making sure that your investors are really good and that their ideas are sound. And if they are, sometimes they're going to tell you something that you didn't think of and you're going to have to correct. As an entrepreneur thinking about how you take feedback and how you figure out how you incorporate that feedback into your business. I think the most important thing is, as an entrepreneur can you take a step back? Can you back away from maybe a narrow problem you're trying to solve right now, and really look at the big picture? And can you take the feedback that's coming in and apply it to the big picture, without being so distracted from what's happening in the weeds? In particular for early stage companies, if you look at the founders and the co-founders, you know, they're selling the product, they're building the product, they're marketing it, they're doing customer service. And sometimes you can get so focused on the detail, that when somebody provides you feedback, you don't understand how to take it, unless you can really step back. And that's a really important attribute of a founder, is can you step back from all of the detail that you're working on and incorporate the feedback that's coming in. And change directions if you need to. Building a relationship with an investor is just like building a relationship with a colleague. It's something that fosters over a long period of time and you get out of it what you're willing to put into it, and you can't think of investors as people you go to when there's a crisis. You have to think of them as people you can go to on a regular basis and share ideas and get feedback and react to that feedback. And you can't, you have to figure out how to balance doing exactly what the investor says verses taking your own path and figure out where that fits. If you always do exactly what the investors say, that's probably not a recipe for success. Likewise if you ignore all of the advice that you're getting, that's not going to work out very well. So, one of the things I wish I knew before I had got out and chased the money, was just how long this was going to take. It took twice as long as I had suspected it was going to take and multiple times, more energy than I thought I was going to put into it overall. And unfortunately, the results of that was it took that energy out of what we were building into the business itself. So effectively we had suspended our business operations in favor of chasing money that would help us grow our business operations. Kind of a counter intuitive thing to do overall. One day I woke up and they called my co-founder and I told him this is not going anywhere. We can't work like that. We have full time jobs, he was working in an advertising agency. I was working. I had actually two jobs. I was working as an analyst, as a QA engineer. And I told them we can't do it. We were doing our full time jobs. And then on the nights we're starting this start up. And we had just one guy doing the programming. And we expect him to do all that work. And this is not going anywhere. We're just entrepreneurs. We just want to be there but we need to commit. We need to burn the bridges behind us. And not really have Plan B. We need to have only Plan A. We're doing this, and no matter what. And we both gave notice the same day and 56 days later we got our first investor. So that was really the moment that switched everything and probably if we didn't just quit our jobs and just go for it. We probably never completed the first version because we would just like postponing it forever. And that fuel, that like fire that gets you going, that what really made a change for us. My first pitch meeting was with an Angel investor called Owen. And I gave the pitch of my life and he was convinced. I felt that he fell for me. And in the second meeting I brought my team members and he said, yeah, amazing, let's do it. And somewhere in doing the meeting he told me Norm, I have a feeling that you have a feeling that I'm in your pocket. You know what? Let's stop it right there. You go and get five more investors to give the same amount of money that I'm going to give you. And then I'll give you my money. What do you say about that? And I said, what? Really? Why? I thought, I thought if we're doing this. No, no, I want more people to participate in this round. And you know what? I want you to bring in an engine with the whole Gigi level. And that time and still, Gigi Levy was the most notable engine investor in Israel. And Gigi was like a celebrity for me, I don't know him. He said, yeah, go do that. Go do that, that will be your test. And I went from that meeting with my team members somewhere between humiliated to disappointed, to what's going on? I really thought that we're going to start operating. But not, so the next day I just like this isn't fart, how I'm going to approach this person and I was so I was the hokiest of the hokies. And I didn't know anyone. So my best chance was just to Facebook message this Angel [COUGH] sorry. So my best chance was to Facebook message this angel investor. And this is a huge no-no. Everybody will tell you, this is so hood. Don't do it. It's so amateur, it's so unprofessional. But I did it, and he answered right away. Three days later we had a meeting. We had an amazing meeting. And he decided to invest and this guy became my mentor he became one of my favorite person on Earth. And he invested not once, not twice, four times in my companies. And now he's following, he followed us to the next company. And yes, I'm excited to talk about him. So the first successful pitch meeting was very cool. We made a lot of progress. We had terms set up and we decided that we were going to meet again and going to bring my co-founders and we're going to sign term sheet, and I came to that meeting like a winner. Hey, I'm here. Where's the money? Those are the co-founders, let's get on with it. And the investor looked at me and said, Norm, I'm not in your pocket, you know. I think that you're going to get three or four more investors that will commit the same amount of money, and then we'll proceed. I don't know any more investors. I just got introduced to you by someone that I'm working with. But we did, we did that. We went and brought more investors to participate in the same round and he eventually gave me the money and he became one of my dearest friends and that was the story of the first investor. Our first investors, I don't know if it's the first investor because we had a few on day 1. They were the best possible fit for us. They shared the same culture as us, the same beliefs. The same approach of starting a business. They gave us their full support. They really believed in the team. Some believed in the CDO more than in the CEO. Some believed in the CEO more than the CDO. But they were there for us. And working with them was an experience that I will never forget. And I owed him so much like Michael is, I owed him to my first investors. They validate your vision and they say okay, you are not crazy. We believe that you can lead a team to execute on this crazy vision. And when people that you appreciate say something like that and actually put their money where their mouth is, it's something very special, something very special happens when when they do it for some people, for most people even if. My investors are my partners, are my mentors, are my friends. Working with them is not only getting money from them. They are financing you, and they are helping you execute your vision. They are also helping you in everything else. They're helping you in hiring, they're helping you in business partnerships. They're helping you in surviving this mentally challenging process which is entrepreneurship and building companies. They've been there, and if they haven't been there, they are working with a lot of people that are doing this right now. And their advices are so good and take you to a different level, that I don't know what I would do without them. Congratulations, you made it through the lesson. In this lesson, you learned about different ways to help finance your business. Bootstrapping, loans, and investors are always to get the money that you need for your start-up. By now, you hopefully have a better understanding of which of these options is right for you. In the next lesson, you'll learn how to get out there and tell your story. You'll design the pitch that you'll use to secure investment, build your team, and gain users for your start-up. It's going to be a combination of everything you've done thus far as an entrepreneur. So, when you're ready, head over to the next lesson, and you can start building your pitch. See you there. Writing a story isn't easy. Building one about your business that captivate your audience and teaches them the value you provide is even harder. Now you have just a few minutes to pitch your idea, and it's possible to lose our attention in the first ten seconds. So what do you do? In this lesson, we'll figure that out. We'll take all the work you've done thus far and organize it into a compelling story. You'll learn how to present the story, overcome any objections, and refine your pitch over time. By the end of this lesson, you'll have a pitch you can use to help secure investment, build your team, and grow your business. So welcome to the lesson. You've got an amazing story to tell, so let's get started writing it. How do you plan to pitch your business? If you're not sure, you'll have a hard time getting investors excited about your message. That's why you need a pitch deck and a script of what you plan to say when presenting your product. So what is a pitch deck and how do you make one? A pitch deck is the first communication tool to help you raise money with a potential investor. We'll be building that throughout this lesson. To pitch your business effectively, we'll focus on three main parts, the introduction, the details, and the closing statement. Each of these parts have a few pieces inside of them that you'll be writing throughout this lesson. Let's have a closer look at each of them. First, before even starting, you'll gather all the materials you've built for your business. You'll be summarizing these throughout your pitch. Then, to introduce your startup, you'll need a hook, a description of the problem you solve, and your solution to this problem. Next, you'll provide a few details about your startup. We'll focus on the market size, product, user validation, monetization strategy, competitive analysis, and marketing plan. This is a lot to cover, so you'll need to be brief and focus on the most relevant aspects of your business. After all this, you need to close strong. You'll introduce your team, the next steps you plan to take and finally wrap up everything to leave investors with something to remember. Throughout this lesson, we'll focus on writing each of these pieces to help you prepare your pitch deck. >From there, you'll be ready to describe your business in a concise, engaging story for investors. So let's get started building your pitch deck. Looking for investment is a tough thing. I often recommend to allocate at least a good three months for that process, and that three months actually starts after you have the materials ready after you've practiced, after you have everything set. So, the clock of three months starts after you've done all that. The process of finding the right investor is not an easy one. I think it really begins in understanding who are the investors that are going to be attracted to what you do. So, for example, you can go out and find investors that like your domain. They have invested in companies in your space, not in a competitor of yours, but in your type of technology or business. And perhaps, they would have the propensity and the interest to invest in you. So, making out that list, you can search on Angie's List and CrunchBase and other free data sources out there to find those investors. That would be number one. Number two is, I think people that perhaps you've come, throughout your career, perhaps working in an early stage startup and you were an early employee. And maybe there's an investor that invested in that company. Maybe those are investors that invested in your friends, right? People that actually can look at you and know that what you've done before this startup is something quite amazing. And they might want to invest in you going forward, because of who you are, because they believe in you. So, looking at investors in your domain, looking at investors that share the same career path with you, or invested in startups you work with, and then reaching out to investors that maybe your friends know, that invested in their businesses, that your friends can vouch for you when they make the introduction to those investors. I think to be better prepared for fundraising process every founder need to speak to other founders that have gone through the process. Learn from them about their experiences, the do's and don'ts of what worked and what didn't. It's really about having a few things ready when you kick of the process. A, you need the materials. You need the deck, you need any Excel financials, everything that you can that sort of you can share with an investor at the right time. Second, you need to practice your pitch. The pitch is not 20 minute conversation, it's really being able to tell your story succinctly, in an effective way and for that you need to practice a lot. And finally, you need to really figure out who it is you're pitching. What type of investors are you looking for? Who are they? Will they invest in your type of business? Do they have the passion for it? All investors don't invest in everything, you have to find the right ones for you, for your business. So, the process from an MVP to getting funded is really depending on many factors, perhaps the main one being the domain you're at. So there some domains, like security for example, that may be an MVP, plus an early pilot would be enough to get seed funding. There some domains, perhaps a mobile application, that more often than not requires more than just a basic MVP, but actually some proof in the market that this can be something interesting. Clearly, there's no rules, and no right or wrong, but it really does depend on the domain you're at, but once you're ready, it's about having everything you need in order to fundraise. You need to show that you have some plan of what you want to do with the market or what you want to do with the money when you fundraise. You have the team, and the MVP is a good indicator that, you know what, maybe it's interesting what you've built. And this MVP shows not only your ability as a team to execute, but the market is receptive to what you have built. Creating an engaging introduction to your business can be difficult, but if anyone should be able to do it it's you. Let's hear a bit about ways to get investors attention and look at examples of pitch decks from other startups. We'll use these to help create an introduction for your pitch. The most important thing to know when selling is knowing who you're selling to and what they care about. So understanding who is standing in front of you, whether it's an investor, an employee, or customer, or partner, and what they truly care about really dictates the tone of what you're selling and how you sell it. For that you need to be able to know everything and anything about your business. So you can tune your pitch to whoever is standing across from you. So if in a networking event, it's an investor and you pick it up very quickly you can have a very specific pitch that is different then if across from you is a potential new hire. So knowing who that person is is probably the most important and first step of developing your pitching skills and then obviously the thing that will get you good at it is just again practicing. The more you practice the better you'll be good at it and you can probably measure it because your pitches will become significantly shorter. It's really easy to sell something using lots of sentences and many minutes. It's really hard to do so with a few words and a few seconds and the more you practice the better you'll become at selling. So how will you start your pitch? You can use a slogan a one-liner or a story. Just make sure it's a quick engaging introduction that helps grab the attention of your audience. Try writing your hook now. Take a minute to describe the problem your business solves. Write that here and think about what visuals you'd like to include in your pitch deck. Make sure to focus on creating a need for your product or asking a question that your startup provides the answer to. Try describing that problem here. The qualities that investors are looking for in a company I think can boil down to three questions. The first is, is the market big enough? Is there enough opportunity out there for a company to go out and succeed? The second question is, is the problem that you're trying to solve something that's important? Is it something that a lot of people believe is an actual problem that needs to be solved? And the third thing is, is your company best positioned to solve that problem better than anybody else? And you have to ask yourself those three questions. There's one other thing you have to look at. And that is that for early stage investors, they're looking for a 20 to 100 return on their money. And when you think about your problem and you think about taking money and what you will ultimately be able to return, you have to ask yourself the question, can you return that much money to the investor? And if you can't, then you probably need to go back and re-evaluate the problem that you're trying to solve. Early stage investors want to invest in people around them because they want to help. They want to be there on a regular basis and go through this super difficult thing of building a startup. So, usually, your early investors are going to come from the immediate vicinity around you. If there are no such investors around you that are aligned with your business or you feel you can reach out to, I think putting yourself in a position where you can find ways. So for example if you are not in a big metropolitan, perhaps going to accelerator program for a few months. Perhaps thinking about where the best place to set up your business maybe closer to your customers that might be in a large metropolitan. I think those are some of the things you should be thinking about in order to get close to the investors. Because investors, it's not about giving you a check and wishing you good luck. They want to be there for you. They want to help you and for that they feel they need to be geographically located next to you. How will you describe the solution your business provides? This is the first time investors will be hearing the reason for your business. You've still got a lot to talk about and not much time to do it. So in this section, be clear and show your enthusiasm, but be concise. Describe your solution here. So you got the audience hooked. They know the problem you solve and the solution you provide. Now what? They need some details. Next you want to tell them about your market size, your monetization strategy, product, user validation, competitive analysis and your marketing plan. So let's look at some examples of how other start-ups have done this and then let's start writing your own. I don't think there is a single process for finding investors. I like to recommend to entrepreneurs to stand in luck's way. They're standing in harm's way, but standing in luck's way. That means you do things where good things might happen to you. So perhaps going to a meet up group around where you live where investors are in a panel or speaking or someone that's speak about a topic that's interesting to you because of your domain. So going to those locations, trying to find them, trying to connect to them, I think that's really a really good way to do it. Another way is, at least I've seen other entrepreneurs do it, is going to alma mater. Maybe finding angel investors or venture capitalists that share something common with you and one thing can be they went to the same college. Trying to find ways to reaching out to them. I think the key is, though, also finding a warm introduction to them. The last thing you want to do is emailing them with no context and with no person that can vouch for you and or your business. And that is something that you have to find even before you find the actual investor that you reach out to. So when going to a networking event, I think you want to come up with at least a couple of things. First, if there's content in this event, you want to learn at least one thing that's relevant for your business. And so you want to go to a networking event that you can hopefully learn something relevant for you. But the most important thing is trying to figure out specific individuals there that would be good for your business. Are there other investors that can help you? Are you looking for a co-founder? It's really about trying to tell your story in a very succinct way, so the person across from you will understand what you do and hopefully connect. I think it's not about quantity, it's really about quality. Don't try to shake hands with 100 different people for one second. Try to find those five, six, seven people that there's a chance that they will dramatically influence the trajectory of your startup. Because they join you as an employee, or as an investor, or perhaps connect you to somebody who can be that. Now describe your market size to investors. You can also include some details about how you fit into this market. Visuals will really help explain this part, so think about an interesting way you can clearly show this. This will allow investors to better understand the scope of your business, and the users you hope to reach. Take a minute to write out this part of your pitch. If you're interested in becoming an investor, what are things to do or what are things to think about? And the first thing I tell people is to get out Excel and do the math. Knowing that if 19 out of 20 companies are going to fail and you're going to invest a certain amount of money. One, how many companies do you need to invest in? If 19 of 20 are going to fail, investing in one company is not going to help you out. The other thing is, how much do you have to spread your bet? And then, what kind of returns do you need to see? And it is very enlightening, in particular, actually even if you're an entrepreneur, doing that math is incredibly insightful. Because then when you're talking to the investor, you're kind of seeing it from the other side of the table. And they're seeing how they're evaluating your idea. How will you describe your monetization strategy? Keep in mind which numbers are important to highlight for investors. Use this to help you sell your idea based on what will get them excited about your business. Try writing this here. How will you describe your user validation to investors? Maybe you can use data, quotes, or something else to help show that people are excited about using your product. Use this time to describe the user validation you've decided to highlight in your pitch. Who is your competition and how do you stand out as a leader in this field? Try using a graph, or competitive matrix to help visualize any claims you make. Remember to focus on measurable metrics, or the qualities you believe really set you apart from the competition. It's time to describe your marketing plan to investors. Try explaining what actions you plan to take and what measurable objectives you'll use to track your progress. When you're ready, write that down here. So you introduced your business and provided some details about your startup. Now it's time to end by wrapping everything up. To do this we'll focus on introducing your founding team, your next steps, and the final thought you want to leave investors with. Investing in single founders is something that most investors don't like to do. They're used to investing in teams of two's, or three, or more because they believe that you need multiple skills, market and complementary skill set in order to drive an early stage startup forward. There are exceptions of course, and it happens more than once or twice. But for the large part, my big advice I like to give entrepreneurs is find a co-founder that you want to go to war with, right, that you want to actually do this impossible thing called a startup. Someone that compliments you, that you really want to go with for multiple years to come. A great business doesn't just come from an awesome idea. The founding team you've built and their ability to overcome challenges will be the reason your business succeeds or fails. What will you say to convince investors that you are the team that can make this startup a success? So now that you've described your business, what's next? How much money are you asking for, how do you plan on using it? Remember, you described most of the details already. Now's the time to focus on being clear about what you're asking for and providing an overall summary of how you plan to use it. Describe your next steps here. So you've said everything you can about your business and you're almost done. It's time to wrap it all up. So how are you going to do that? What final thought will you leave investors with? Take some time now to write down the last statement you plan to make to end your pitch. After your pitch, an investor may raise a few objections about your startup. This is totally normal, so don't lose hope. If you can overcome objections and display confidence in the value you provide, you can have a major impact on the investor decision. Let's hear about why investors tend to reject entrepreneurs and what you can do to overcome any objections they may have. Investors see thousands of deals every year and they are in a place where they can really select the ones that they feel close affinity with, believe in and want to go with going forward. So, for them it's really about a matter of fit. At a very high level, I think they look at three categories. The first category, the team. They look at the team and they want to be in a place where they invest in people that they say, hey I want to work with this entrepreneur for the next five to seven years and beyond. So do they have good chemistry with the person? Do they think they're the right team to push the startup forward? The second category they look at is the market. Is the market opportunity big? Is this something really worth going after? Is there a big problem to be solved here and do I think there's a good match between the team and the market opportunity they're going after? And the third item is the product or the technology of what the team has done so far to actually showcase that there's a chance they'll exceed on their vision. So those three things and in each place the team, the market, the product, investors look at a slew of things and sometimes they decide not to invest because they think the market is not big enough or the team is great but maybe don't have the expertise. Maybe the product is too early. And they want to see more proof points, but those are the three big buckets of items I think most investors look at. Overcoming rejections from investors is something all entrepreneurs do. Google, LinkedIn, all those founders got rejected dozens and dozens of times before they got their first investment. So if you get rejected, good news! You're part of a great group of entrepreneurs, and it's actually part of the process. I think the key is to learn from each rejection. Why were you rejected? Maybe you didn't approach the right investors in the first place. Maybe your pitch was too long or not clear enough. Try to get that feedback from the investor as to how to improve it and improve your chances of raising funding with other investors. Some of the reasons that it was rejected. People just didn't buy my vision. People didn't think that they can execute on that. People thought that they saw companies that wanted to do the same thing. But they failed. So they assume that I'm going to fail as well. People thought the market is not real or people thought the market is too small or people thought the market is too big and there's no chance that the small fish like me would be able to take a decent cut of it. People thought that we don't have the necessary skills in the team. And people thought that we just don't know what we're doing. So we were rejected so many times, many more times than we were accepted. A lot of the investors rejected us initially because they perceived the value of our company to be lower than their threshold of investment. What we encountered was that investors typically fall into two categories. The long-tail investors and the unicorn, big fish investors. The unicorn, big fish investors for startups, typically aren't worth the effort, unless they've been already valued at unicorn level, a billion dollar company, essentially a billion dollar startup. The long-tail investors are probably your better bet. They're the ones who will do the $2 to $5 million investments with a three to five year spread return on their investment, and then give you a long enough runway to actually test out a lot of theories. In the other case, with the unicorn investors, it's typically there after continued growth valuation over time. And if at any point during any future valuation cycle your valuation drops, your company's dead in the water, even though it may be worth on paper billions. After your pitch, an investor may raise a few objections about your startup. This is totally normal, so don't lose hope. If you can overcome objections and display confidence in the value you provide, you can have a major impact on the investor decision. Let's hear about why investors tend to reject entrepreneurs and what you can do to overcome any objections they may have. The best way to improve your pitch, is practice. And after you finish practice, you practice some more. So it really starts with other entrepreneur friends of yours. Maybe it's your co-founders, maybe it's people that raise money from investors. Other friendly investors you might know that maybe are not right for a business, that are willing to help you with your pitch. It's about practicing and practicing and practicing. Sometimes, it's you go to pitch competitions that's also a good way to practice but the more you say your story, the better it will become over time. If you just had one line to pitch your business. How would you do it? Here's a great practice you can do to help figure this out. Write down your company name, offering, target audience, problem and solution and secret sauce. You already have these different pieces now try combining them all into this template. Something you hopefully considered by now, but may not recognize, is your secret sauce. That just means, what is it that special about your business. If someone uses your product, what's compelling them to come back. It's important that people understand this, so they know how you stand out as a company. So, think about how you'd like to piece together your one-line pitch. Then try writing one for yourself. Here's a practice you can use to help refine your pitch and focus on the most important details of your presentation. Pretend you only have 30 seconds to present your idea. What details would you focus on to provide the most impact? The goal here isn't to explain everything really fast, but instead try to focus on driving interest so that your audience wants to continue the conversation. This is much better than trying to overwhelm people with the details. As a general rule, assume that you can get through about 75 words in 30 seconds. Reference the pitch you built but try limiting yourself to these 75 words, then time how long it takes to say. Adjust from this starting point to come up with your 30 second pitch. Write down your idea here. Here's another practice you can use to help refine your pitch. Pretend you only have 60 seconds to present your business. How would you organize your pitch to provide the most impact within this time limit? With this much time, you can take a slightly different approach and expand a bit on some of the details. As a general rule, you can assume that you can get through about 150 words in this 60 seconds. Try limiting yourself to these 150 words, then time how long it takes. Adjust your pitch from there to come up with your 60 second pitch. Write down your idea here. Now that you have a different set of pitches ready, you need to get out there and practice them. When you talk to a few people, make sure that you ask for some feedback. Ask them what they took away from your pitch. If you say lead, do they hear spearheading? If you say full service, do they hear holistic? Is this what you were even hoping to get out of it? If not, then you need to revise your story and make sure that they receive the right message. Taking this feedback seriously is the best chance you have to continue building a better story for your business. My name is Vishal Makhijani. I'm the President and Chief Operating Officer here at Udacity. I have one big job and that's to help our folks help our students. I think what students always have to remember is they have to be the best salesperson possible for their idea. And what that means is being able to crisply articulate exactly what their idea is in a few short sentences. It's important not to get too lost in the details. It's important to really understand what your idea is about and be able to tell anyone who wants to know exactly what your idea is all about. Like anything else that's important, practice is really important. Try it out, try it out on your friends, try it on your parents, try it out on your colleagues. Try it out on anyone that will listen, in fact. Don't be worried about sounding foolish. Keep continue to work on that really crisp pitch of what your idea is all about with any and all who will listen to it. Don't worry about giving that idea away or any secrecy. The better you get at talking about your idea in a way that excites and engages people, the better opportunity you have to build that great thing that you want to build. So, you've got three minutes to deliver a pitch. And it's possible that you're losing their attention in the first ten seconds. Do you know what to do? Hopefully now you do. Congratulations, you made it through the lesson. In this lesson you organize your story into a pitch you can use to get attention, overcome objections, and secure investment. This is a huge accomplishment, so, great job. You've got an amazing story to tell and now it's time to go out and tell it.