So for talking about online education, I can think of few people more interesting and qualified to talk about than Dr. Sebastian Thrun. So thank you so much for talking to us for a few minutes today. It's a pleasure. So the first thing I wanted to ask is Udacity's mission is democratizing education. For those students that we have that aren't too familiar with what that means, can you give a rundown of what that means in practice? Well, I would say today we live in a world that good education is extremely locked up and inaccessible. It's expensive. It's hard to get in. And it's not geographically distributed, which means the institutions aren't in Africa or places like these. Democratization means everybody should have access. We should have access to clean drinking water, to security, and to good education. I think education is fundamental in giving people a chance to play in this world. I think that's very, very relevant to what we do in the LMS program, as you know, because it's so low cost, it's so flexible, so distributed that we have people, especially people in this class who could never take a class or do a program like this, traditionally, because they can't take a couple years off work or they can't, pay six figures just to get a Master's degree. And one fo the reasons, especially since this is an educational technology class, is technology a necessary part of that? Does it enable us to do something now that we couldn't do before or are we just the only ones who are finally coming around and say let's do this? Absolutely. It's a necessary but not a sufficient component. I don't think alone will be a education. But I think we live in a world with the knowledge that we have now more better devices. We have ability to record video, to do interactive things like video games. And those ought to play a role. We've done this quite a bit and we're exploring what's the best way to deliver education. And to have interaction with students and foster interactions but technology plays a huge part in this. Is technology mostly about getting the access to the education, or is there other things that technology does for us that we couldn't do in the past? Every time you move to a different medium I think everything changes. So the way we do lectures today, a single professor speaking to many, many students Is because the technology they're using is a natural human voice. As we change this into a more recorded technology and digital technology, we can really change the entire idea of lectures. We don't need lectures anymore. We can do it much more interactive, it turns out. In technology, you can actually make class as much fun as a video game. And a video game is clearly enough to select to us. A student can do something to exercise their own skills. I would like to think that that kind of technology is something what allows this class to happen. It allows us to have the kind of communication between instructors and TAs and students that we really can't have in person where everything is very guarded in terms of how much time you have to give to it. So we have a lot of people in the class and I bet that there are some out there who are wondering do I want to go into research or do I want to go into business? And the class project we have for this class is very much built around either doing something that could become a research project or doing something that could become a start up or a tool that we use in the program. You're one of the only people I know that succeeded in both realms. So do you have any thoughts for anyone who might be struggling with whether they want to go the research route or the business route? I wouldn't struggle about research versus business. I think it's kind of very much the same, to be honest. I would struggle about impact and about willingness to experiment and to learn. I think so much has not been discovered yet. I think we would look back a hundred years from now and ask what did we [INAUDIBLE] at the time, we probably concluded was probably gutsy to do what we're doing. But it wasn't that good. It think it's going to get much better. And it's going to get much better by you students doing great experiments and trying things out even non-conventional things. And if you're able to make a dent in people's ability to learn using digital technology, and do it in a way that it's, financially viable. Doesn't require having a thousand professors sit there and watch your hand. Then you might turn to research paper or you might also turn to start up company. Or you might join Udacity and work with us to make the world a better place. Sounds fantastic to me. That's really guiding principle behind why we started this class. So, do you have any final thoughts for students taking a masters level educational technology class? I think the key thing is really experimentation. I have this very deep belief in my heart that we can make the world a better place by democratizing education and that with fire-stick technology. Otherwise we couldn't afford doing it. And what you can do as students, the students in your class can do, is to really kind of do crazy things. Do something that looks like it's going to fail. Do something that's audacious. Do something that is really out of the world no one has tried before. Go to Twitter, go to Facebook. Make something crazy happen. And make it happen in a short amount of time so you don't waste too much of your own time. And look at the data coming back. I think there is a lot of surprises in there. You can discover a lot of good stuff. And when you find something great come back to us and send us the application. We'd love to hire you. Sounds great. Well thank you again so much for talking with us and yeah, thank you. Pleasure. So I'm here with Cameron Pittman, who is a course developer here at Udacity. He's going to talk to us a little bit about metacognition. So thank you for talking to us today. Yeah, happy to be here. So the first thing I want to ask is, the reason why I'm talking to Cameron about metacognition is that Udacity has started a new type of debate class they call R&R. And can you tell us a little bit about what that is? Sure, R&R is not a replacement for the classroom. It's just another way to engage students. Our classes are essentially a series of, as you guys probably well know, videos, questions, problems, projects, and some short readings. And that's actually where we're extending the classroom here with R&R. R&R is actually, I think it stands for reading and reflection. It's essentially a set of topics online or blog posts or news articles or any kind of writings online that are relevant to the course. And what we simply do is ask students to read them and then reflect in the forums. It's just another way of trying to engage students and introducing them to material that's out in the world. So it's worth noting that when they started the R&R way of doing classes here at Udacity I didn't know about it. And they did it in parallel to me designing this class. And so this R&R approach is very much what we do in this class where it's all about readings and going out and finding your own resources and reflecting on them and sharing them with classmates. But something I'd ask for both these students in this class as well as for general understanding of the way this is used, is this for everybody, or is this a kind of approach that's specifically for people who don't learn from traditional methods, that don't like to learn from lectures, that they need an alternate way? Or is this the better way to learn for everybody? I would never couch something as a better way to learn for everybody because everybody learns differently. There are different modes of learning. Some people learn better visually, auditorially, or in-discussionally. Okay, that's not a word. [LAUGH] But anyways, so this is just another way of introducing students to material, that they wouldn't normally see. And I think this is a great method, because as a developer, which is what we're training people to become, you have to be up to date with current news. You have to be up to date with the current thoughts on whatever technology it is you're working with. And R&R is just a great way to reflect that. So, its not replacing anything and I don't think its necessarily a better way to learn. It's just another way of introducing students to the world around them. I like it a lot because it doesn't just teach you the content that you're learning about. It doesn't teach you how to design a form or how to write a line of code. But it also teaches you that in the future when you encounter a problem that you don't know how to solve, how would you go out and solve it? And that's almost more important. It's one thing to teach someone something but it's something else to teach them how to solve their future problems. And not to mention it also introduces students to developer communities. You start meeting other people or seeing other people who are interested in the same technologies and it gives students a chance to get involved. Yeah, absolutely. So since this is an Ed Tech class though, one question I would have is, is technology, aside from us being in computer science, so let's imagine for a second we're doing R&R in an English class or something like that, how does technology actually help with this? Is it a core part of the R&R process, or is it just that, because we're teaching computer science here at Udacity we tend to use technology along with this. Well, I think technology in this case is just a better way to do paperwork. [LAUGH] [LAUGH] You know, you could easily do this in the class. Millions of teachers probably have. You assign a reading to your students, you get them to read. And that's essentially all we're doing here. And technology just makes it easier. It's not necessarily better or worse, it's just easier and more accessible to students. Yeah, it sounds like it introduces a more rapid feedback cycle because instead of having to go to the library, find an encyclopedia, read about it, go home and realize I read the wrong thing, I can go through that cycle in a minute instead of in a day. So it really lets them go through that more often. So if we have any students in the class who want to apply an approach like this, an R&R style approach, or an approach that really fosters metacognition in their project that they develop for this class, do you have any suggestions for what they should think about while they're doing it? Yeah, sure. So one of the nice things about R&R is it lets students go at their own pace, and gives them control over what they're learning, and then what they do with what they're learning. Because they're simply reflecting on it, and maybe they hate the article, maybe they love the article, maybe they want to share it, maybe they don't. But either way they have the power to do all these things. And that actually is a huge part of learning is having the power to control what you're learning and how you're learning and what you're going to do with what you've learned. And so any kind of tool that gives students that kind of power is obviously a good way to go. Great. Well, thank you so much for talking to us. Yeah. Happy to be here. I'm here with Cameron Pittman, who's a course developer here at Udacity. Thank you so much for talking to me today. Yeah, happy to be here. So Cameron's here to talk about some use of games in education. And so I know you did something really cool back when you taught in high school with games in your high school classroom. So can you tell us a little bit about that? Sure. So I was teaching high school physics, and I realized I wanted a better lab simulator. It's really hard to find lab supplies sometimes and it's sometimes a lot easier to use something virtual. So I decided to use a video game, because they're easily accessible and readily available. And I wound up using the video game Portal 2 to teach physics. Portal Two has a puzzle maker in it. And this puzzle maker makes it really, really easy to make a level in about five minutes. It really is so simple that even somebody who has never even really used a computer before can figure it out. All you need to use is click and drag and maybe one or two clicks, and you actually have a full-blown level. And because the game is essentially a physics puzzle game, the game itself follows the laws of physics. So what I had my students doing is building levels in the game that were essentially experiments. And then I had them running experiments, collecting data, and then comparing the data they were collecting to what they would expect to see in the real world. Which was pretty cool. It was pretty wild. We wound up doing about ten labs in the class. We did everything from simple momentum and motion to kinetic energy, potential energy. We even did some thermodynamics in the game, which is pretty wild. Because the laws of physics hold up that well, that essentially we could throw a bunch of objects bouncing off of each other into a level, and it kind of, sort of followed the laws of thermodynamics, which is amazing. We had some other cool ones with terminal velocity. And, yeah, I just had my students comparing what they saw to what they would see in the real world. And it wound up being a really, really fun semester. Yeah, I bet. I bet they really got a kick out of that. So for any of our students who might develop games to be used in the classroom. What do you need to think about when you're developing games to the classroom? Make sure they're really a learning experience and not a distraction for the students, or just something they kind of have fun playing around with, and don't learn anything from? Sure well it's important to remember that games are a means to an end and just one tool amongst many that teachers have at their disposal. So I think the idea here is just simply make sure that the game, like the fun mechanics of the game, are teaching what you want students to learn. So I kind of saw using Portal as a way to engage students. Because immediately you're using a video game which is new and different that students aren't familiar with, normally in a classroom. But they love outside of the classroom, so I had their attention and that's half the battle in a physics class. I was really happy about that. And then the other thing that I was really happy about is that the actual mechanics of the game, reflected exactly what I wanted students to be learning at that time. So there are a number of ways that you can make an educational game just awful. For instance, you could create let's say a fighting game, a beat them up game. But instead of getting a new life at the end of the level you have to solve some math problems and then you get a new life. That's silly. That's dumb. That's just a big distraction. What you would want to do instead is create a game maybe like Dragonbox. Have you ever heard of that one? I have not, no. Oh it's awesome, it's an algebra game. And it's essentially, it looks like a card game, but it follows the laws of algebra. You have to put cards in certain places, and what you're really doing there is having fun with fractions, and cross multiplying, and it's actually a ton of fun. And it's not a distraction, whatsoever. Because the actual fun game mechanic is teaching algebra. Huh. Very interesting. Now the one thing that I feel it's worth noting though, is that there are those in the education community which, and just for full disclosure, I am one of them, that are often dubious about the usage of games in education. Mostly because many of us think that it's really important to make the material appealing in-and-of itself. That if we have to put a game on it, we've kind of already fought a losing battle. And now, when they move on to a class that doesn't use games, they're just going to tune out, because I'm used to learning being very engaging and fun because there was a game attached to it. And now I don't learn in the real world. What would you say to people like me who have that criticism about this? That doesn't sound like that applies to the Portal 2 thing but for other games, what would you say to that? I understand that concern. I love physics and I think physics in and of itself should be super interesting. Same thing with basically all science or engineering in tech. But for instance if I were learning lets say I don't know, what didn't I like in school? I liked all my classes. [LAUGH] You're not the target audience for this. [LAUGH] But I think it's just one tool of many. If it's a distraction, and if it takes away from the fun or the essence, of the material itself. You're probably just using the game wrong. It's a tool like anything else. It's just another media form. You have videos, you have books you have audio, these are all very valid and relevant media sources to learn anything and now you have games. Games are just another way to interact with material. So despite the fact that normally they are associated with fun and they could potentially be distracting. If used in the right way I think there's really nothing to fear there. I think you're getting at a really important distinction, which is between using games for education and game-ifying education, which are two very different things. When we attach these badges and things like that to education it can apply some motivators. But they're really extrinsic motivators, which might not get to the heart of what we really want to do in education. Do you have any final thoughts for our students who might be looking at doing a game for their class project here? You should go for it. It's fun. It's so much fun, and when you see kids' eyes light up, when you see them get really excited about playing a game, and feel motivated to solve the kind of problems that you want them to solve. That's awesome, it's great. It's a fantastic feeling, but at the end of the day, it's just a lot of fun. I mean, you're adding fun to the classroom. And there's really no reason that learning can't be super enjoyable for everybody involved. So I say go for it. Have a good time. Cool. Well thank you so much for talking to us. Yeah. And have a great rest of your day. Happy to be here. Thanks. I'm here with Jason Barros who's the program manager for the Georgia Tech team here at Udacity. He also formerly worked at the education startup, EdMoto. Thank you so much for talking to us today. Yeah absolutely David. So the first thing I'd ask is that many of our students in this class might be interested in spinning up their projects to a startup after this class is done. Okay. What are some obstacles or some things to keep in mind when dealing with the business side of educational technology? I mean, one, you really want to go in and exhibit a lot of patience. It is really slow working with universities and any educational institutions. There are a lot of things that they need to consider that you may not necessarily be considering. At the time you're beginning your start up. They have federal laws, state laws, and you have to look out for student's rights and privacy. All that comes into play anytime you want to work or do anything on an educational institution. So what about ed tech when it's not necessarily dealing with academia though. For example, here at Udacity we do education but we don't do it partnering with a University except for Georgia Tech. We do other programs. So are there any specific considerations when doing it outside of that overlap? I mean one, you really want to focus on, what it is that you're trying to get across or teach to the students. While we're at Moto, you know our primary concern was communication, we wanted to make sure that the communication flowed between the teacher and the students, and amongst the students themselves. Here at Udacity, we're focused a little bit more on the pedagogy of actually teaching a particular subject. So, we want to make sure that what we're teaching, and how we're teaching it is particularly sound. Some of those students who might be interested in spinning their project up into some kind of business or start up. What would you say the first step is? What do they need to do in the two or three weeks after this semester is over to move that along? I mean, really start small and be patient. Share with your classmates and other people at the educational institution Institutions or just friends, and present the idea to them. And try to get a little feedback of what they think is going to be viable. And then, putting together a minimum viable product is really important. You don't want to go too far and try to build something that's going to get a lot of users right away. It's going to take time. At Moto, we were a grassroots organization where teachers talked to teachers about our product but it took time to build up the number of users and after a while, the network worked such that we were able to get millions and millions of students and teachers on the platform. But it took a long time and a lot of patience. Yeah, makes sense. Also for the students who might want to go into the business side of educational technology, do you have any final suggestions for them before we sign out? Again, patience. If you're going to work with any kind of educational institution, they have their process. And what I discovered here at Udacity, working with Georgia Tech, is the business world moves at the speed of light. And unfortunately, the academic world doesn't, and for good cause, they need to be careful. And they're trying to protect their students, they're trying to protect their institution. They have state laws, federal laws and all that stuff and working through that stuff, it takes time. And the more you can communicate and be open with what you intend to do and share with as many people as possible, the better luck you're going to have. I can say I participated kind of peripherally in the NSF I-Corps process. It looks to develop academic research up into businesses. And that's one of the things they really, really emphasize as well, is customer discovery. Go out and talk to your customers. That one of the number one things that trips up early start ups is they assume they know their customer. Right. And they assume they know exactly what they want. They never talk to them because we know what you want. And they just assign their tool for them. And then hit market and then find out they designed something that no one wants. Absolutely. So really, talking to the people who might want to use the tool throughout would be, I think, I agree, the first step to do. Absolutely, and getting the perspective is really important. We come in and we want to disrupt everything. We want to disrupt education. We think we have a really good idea in doing so and we have the best intentions. But oftentimes their perspective, while sometimes even archaic, is still pretty valuable. You want to make sure you take that into account because these are the people you are going to be working with. Yes we all want to serve the students and make the world a better place. But we need to do it in a measured fashion. Yeah. Sounds good. All right, well thank you so much for talking to us. Yeah, any time, David. So I'm here with Jessica Uelmen who's the program manager for the mobile Nanodegrees here at Udacity. Thank you so much for talking to us today. Yeah, absolutely. Happy to be here. [LAUGH] So first thing I wanted to ask about, was this is an ed-tech class and many of our students might be looking at developing educational technology for mobile devices. So what are some of the unique opportunities that take place on mobile that we don't necessarily have on more traditional computers. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think number one, your phone is always glued to you, right? I mean, when is there an opportunity when you don't have your phone on you? So that also opens the opportunity to learn at any time. So for example, if you're on the train, if you're in a ridiculously long queue, just anywhere that you have time, you can start learning. So I think then thinking of a learning experience to help students learn when they just have the time. At any time instead of at home on the couch making time for it. Mm-hm, so it sounds like mobile technology is great for developing some education applications. I'm guessing it's not a matter of if you build it, they will come and there are some things we can do wrong with it. So what are some of the unique challenges or obstacles to doing good mobile technology for education? Yeah, I think, when I think of it, I think there's two real ones that stick in my mind. For one, there's programming challenges, right. I mean, how do you do complex programming challenges on a phone? And on most mobile devices like the iPhone in particular, you can't compile anything. It's against Apple's terms of service. So how do you teach programming in that regard? And then also how do you make it not so gamey, right? I mean, how do you make people feel like you're not just progressing through a level and it's like Math Blaster or something, right? I mean, how do you make it a substantial learning experience. I think one company that does that very well is Duolingo. I think that then learning a language, it's great, I can fit small chunks in. At any time, learn words, come back and revisit things and it doesn't feel gamey. It feels like I'm actually learning and making progress each time. I imagine language is a particular one where being able to learn on the go is very valuable. Because it's something you use everyday throughout your life. Right. As opposed to programming, you're not usually actually doing programming on a train, you're programming at home But there are other skills we learn that we would actually use in this context. Absolutely. So are there any new trends or new emerging parts of mobile technology that are emerging that will be useful in developing future educational technology? So actually, I think one of the most exciting things is the watch. I mean, so I have an Android watch and it's really surprised me at how useful it's been. If for nothing else, just reminders. Hey, you've got a meeting, or hey, you need to do this. So if for anything else, helping students set those learning habits to really make time for education. Could be a really, really great application moving forward. Yeah, it's very true. I hadn't really thought about that, but that could be very useful for things, like a guided tour of a museum or something like that. It seems almost a silly little difference to have the device be on your wrist or in your pocket. Either way, they're always on you. But just that hands-free and always visible nature of it can really change things. No, absolutely. May be there's even bite-size learning segments that you can get, where all of a sudden, oh, your wrist vibrates. Here's a quick question or learning snippet that you can quickly look at, answer and then move on. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And by the same token, so when we think about these mobile devices for education, I think we often think about the fact that they have a screen that can show us information. They're web-enabled, it's pretty much it. But they have a lot of other things like cameras and GPS and microphones and things like that. Can those also be used for education some ways? Yeah, absolutely in certain ways. So one of the examples that I first think about is I'm really interested in hardware. I come from an Electrical Engineering background and learning experiences for hardware becomes inherently a lot more challenging. So devices like the camera for example, if you're building a printed circuit board or building a circuit and maybe it's not working properly. And you don't know what's going wrong. It's not like you can send an email to your professor and say, here's a digital version of my printed circuit board or my circuit, what's going wrong? Maybe taking a picture or video and then being able to easily send it. Provides a lot more opportunity for faster feedback and then even assessment at the end of the day. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. So we might have students in this class who are looking at developing their project, their class project using a mobile device. Mm-hm. Do you have any suggestions, just as we sign off for them if they're looking to do that? I think in a lot of ways, keep it simple. I think that comes up a lot. People get entranced by the phone as a medium and tend to want to throw a lot of features and a lot of different things into it. So really get to basics and try not to let feature creep come in so much, so that it becomes this giant app that no one can navigate. [LAUGH] I think that's a big thing and then also just avoid gamification. If you can. It's just such an easy thing to slip into and such an easy thing to not do, right? So to try to avoid that whenever possible. [LAUGH] And now you see why I wanted to talk to Jessica as well. Because as you probably know by now, I am not a particularly big fan of gamification either. Thank you so much for talking to us. Yeah, my pleasure. [LAUGH] So I'm here with Jessica Uelmen who's the program manager for mobile nano-degrees here at Udacity. Thank you so much for talking to us today. Yeah, happy to be here. My pleasure. So the first thing I wanted to ask you was, that there's this trend in technology that the technology industry tends to be very male-oriented. And there's this perception that therefore, any educational technology that comes out of the technology industry will also be oriented more towards male style ways of learning. So what can we do when we're designing educational technology to make sure that we're not preserving this trend of it being by men for men? Yeah, it's a really tough question and a tough thing to address, but I think it really starts with awareness, which is great to be here and talking about it already. But, really scrutinizing and looking at what's being designed, looking at things through a neutral lens. Even getting feedback from women, or from other teachers. Education as a field, is primarily dominated by women. So it's kind of interesting that ed tech then becomes more male skewed. So I think if there's a way to sort of start blending those worlds, we'll get to a little more diverse pool. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense, I actually hadn't thought about that before, but you're right that with technology it's very male oriented, but teaching tends to be very female oriented And so there's a lot of great overlap there and a lot of chance for collaboration as long as we actually go out and do it. Absolutely. And talking to teachers I think is something that anyone is on the educational technology needs to do more of anyway. Yes. And so now we kind of kill two birds with one stone. Yep. So, but given that we're probably not going to change the entire industry in the next four months. Of the students currently in the class, what are some considerations they should make when they're developing their tools besides possibly going out and talking to teachers? Are there any things they can keep in mind? I think maybe just even surveying the landscape. I mean, there's also, people do a lot of efforts for putting educational technology solutions towards women, and a lot of times unfortunately, that's like making it pink. So, let's not make it pink, okay? But, looking at those solutions, maybe seeing what they're doing and seeing how it might be able to adapt to what they're building. And so I think that the other thing that comes up here is that if our ultimate goal is to make the technology industry itself a little bit less male dominated, the people in this class will go on to careers in technology. What can they do when they're in their future workplaces or their current workplaces? They can kind of try and combat this trend a little bit. Yeah, I mean, I think the main thing and something that I always push for is not necessarily making a woman a commodity. It's not a hire because she's a woman, or it's not collaborating because she's a woman, and it's a very difficult thing to do. Because if you look at, the percentages, and it's like wow, there's not a whole lot of women here. We need to hire women, but that's not always the best solution. And then when there are women in the workplace in maybe leadership roles making their impact more visible externally and internally, will sort of help fill that role model role that we are always talking about. We need more women in tech role models, but doing so will then hopefully inspire more people to pursue that as a field. Yeah, and I think there's a very interesting alignment there between what we deal with in industry, and what we actually deal with here in the OMS program. That as I'm recording this, hopefully it will change in future semesters. The OMS program is 90% male, and there's a tendency to think if it's 90% male we just need to admit more women. Right. But that's kind of, treating the symptom as the thing to be treated as opposed to, it's a symptom of some underlying issue. And here the issue is appeal to women, or if there are any obstacles that we're not really considering that apply more to women than men. Resolving those obstacles as opposed to just, you know, changing admission criteria, or something like that. Right. And I think then, also, making things a little bit more welcoming, or breaking down those like a girl stereotypes. One of the things that always pops into my head is I majored in electrical engineering, and so we had to take physics classes, and it was my sophomore year, and we were in a physics study group. It was me and a bunch of guys, because that's the way it goes, and I was helping them solve each of the problems, and I was doing a lot of the teaching. And one of the guys piped up and said hey, are we going to let the girl teach us how it's done. [LAUGH] And comments like that doesn't really make for a welcoming environment, and it's a very benign comment, right. It's not meant to be hurtful, but it is uncomfortable. So just try to be aware of those types of comments. Yeah, it plays some kind of assumption that the assumptions really need to be addressed. Right. Comment might be harmless but what it's perpetuating is not. Yes, absolutely. Well, great. Well, thank you much for talking to us today. Yeah, my pleasure. Always happy to talk. [LAUGH] I'm here with Jarrod Parkes who is a course developer at Udacity. Thank you so much for talking to us today, Jarrod. Thanks for having me. We're going to talk a little bit about student isolation, and especially student isolation as it arises in online classes. I wanted to talk to Jarrod about this, because, Jarrod, you have unique experience in three different ways on this topic. One is as the student of online classes. One is as the designer of online classes. And one is also as a remote employee. Jarrod works for Udacity in Mountain View, but actually works out of his home in Alabama. So that's kind of three interesting takes on the angle of isolation. So let's start with the class, with the experience as a student in a class. So what's your experience being a student in an online class where you might not be colocated with your fellow students? So every time that I've taken an online class, I think one of the things I quickly find myself doing is wanting to share my experience with people. So whether I'm taking the class in isolation, which is usually the case. When I'm done with whatever the lesson is that day, or the content that I've consumed, very quickly I want to talk with other people about it. So for me, I've always been able, luckily, to facilitate that with actual in-person conversations. But I think for others, it's useful to have a place to discuss topics. So is that a perspective you try and incorporate when you're designing courses? Is there a way we can Absolutely. facilitate that? Absolutely. I think any and every opportunity that we have and that students want to take advantage of that is discussion-based, it's always beneficial. I mean, that really, I think, helps capture what is difficult sometimes in the online education space, is that you don't have the same physical classroom that's traditionally always been there, where people are having these types of conversations. It's true that there's an absence of that physical interaction, that face-to-face interaction that we have right here. But, in your experience, is there any instance where not only can the online environment be as good as it might be in person, but can it ever be better? I think so. I think what the online environment has allowed me to do personally, and I think maybe some others as well, is that it allows me to put my head down and just go straight into a topic and not have to weed through, say, the conversation sometimes. So it's kind of a mix-and-match approach. And, yeah, when I want to learn a certain topic, I can go and find it freely. And I think that's something that is better inherently about it. Yeah. I think that one of my favorite experiences with isolation in an online classroom and the comparison to an on-campus class is that on campus, if I know there's a student question coming up, or I know students are confused about something, and it's, you know, Friday night, and I just finished a lecture on Friday afternoon, and I'm aware that students are confused, I have to wait until Monday to get back to them and talk to them about that. But what we have online is what I call 24/7 classroom. It's always there. Students are always available to interact, since they're always checking their email. They can always visit forums. They always have a way that they can interact with one another. As I mentioned this before in these interviews, but I can have an experience where I'll log into our class forum and in five minutes I can interact with ten different students and then come back an hour later and do it again. And that's something we can't really do in person. In person, we have this time box thing and we have limited resources to meet in person because we have different classes and things like that. So there's a lot of things that we can do online that actually can break that isolation. But to your point, it's not something that just happens automatically. Right. It's something, yeah. And it's interesting. It's kind of like a dichotic state. I think students have moments in their learning where they really want to be in conversation, and then they have moments in their learning where they really don't. And I think a lot of times as you're taking online courses, a lot of that responsibility is being placed on you as the learner. And I think for us as course designers, if we can take some of that responsibility away and facilitate the times when you want to learn with your head down to the grindstone or when you want to have class discussion. Yeah, that need's really nice, too, because I sometimes comment on what I call a rule of 20s, which is if anything is effective for 20% of the students in a class, we should use it, because 20% is a decent enough portion. But we're never going to have anything reach 100%. And that's really nice here, because it means that those 20% who are, or more, who are going to get a lot out of class discussions can do them. But those who really don't get a lot out of them don't have to sit in the classroom listening to them. Right. And, I mean, I think a lot of students experience this at an early age, for instance, in traditional classrooms where the conversation is something you already know. A lot of people enter a grade school at very different levels. And so if you don't skip a grade or you don't get into the accelerated program, you get bored, and that's not good for students. That's a waste of time. And I think that students learn over time that if I'm not consistently being challenged, that school is boring. And that's definitely not what we want them to learn, because eventually school won't be boring. Eventually, you know, they'll get to the level that they're ready for. But we don't want them to have learned that they can skate through until then. Right. So come tell a little bit about your experience, if you don't mind, also as a pay remote employee, someone working at a distance. Is there a similarity between being a remote student and a remote employee? I think there are similarities in the fact that I feel like I need discussion as a remote employee, whether that's facilitated through online chat or if I can just talk to a friend. So, you know, where I work from in Alabama, I try to do my best to create a space that is kind of the office that's very separate from what is the home. And then I've also tried to force myself during the day to go out and have conversations with people, even if it's just over lunch, because if I don't do that, I feel like I've been in a cave all day. And it drives motivation down. The same kind of motivation maybe it is for learning, I feel like it drives my motivation down for producing good material and doing good work. I think nowadays we also are, have the benefit of a lot of really nice tools around these programs that we have, our class forums. I know that the OMSCS program uses HipChat. We at EDSC use Slack. And there are some really nice tools that can kind of try and to recreate that environment of being in an office or being in a classroom. That I always have people at my fingertips that I can talk to or I can always post a message right now while I'm thinking about it that people will see when they have time, as opposed to, oh, I need to remember to bring that up on Monday when I get back to class, so. Yeah, it's one of those, it's like that strange, or it's strange, it's like the old saying, you know, you don't know how much you miss something until it's gone. And when you're in the office every day around tons of people and maybe you have too many meetings, you're like, gosh, I wish I didn't have to meet all the time, whereas when I'm remote, I feel like I look forward to the meetings because that's my opportunity to actually get to talk to somebody during the day. Yeah. Absolutely. So do you have any final thoughts for our students who might be trying to solve the problem of student isolation when they're designing their tools? I think it's just to be conscientious of the things we just talked about, and to recognize that, you know, maybe when your motivation is down and you feel isolated, to go out and seek and speak with other students. You never know what you're going to learn. And I think there's a lot of reciprocity between what happens in student conversations a lot. I mean, you're going to get something out of it and somebody that you're speaking with is going to get something out of it. Okay. Makes a lot of sense to me. Great. Thank you so much for talking to us today. I'm here with Jarrod Parkes who's a course developer at Udacity. And Jarrod thanks so much for talking to us today. Thanks for having me. We're going to talk a little bit about student motivation in classes and how technology can help. So Jarrod I'll start by asking, what kind of shaped do you as far as motivation is concerned, back when you were a learner in school? So what were your experiences with the role of motivation in education? Right, I had kind of a lucky situation. I'm a twin, so for me a lot of my motivation I think was always driven out of that natural sense of competition that I had with my twin brother, James. But from more of what the school was providing for me, I think I was always motivated by doing well. It was always stressed that you want to do well, so I tried to get to the top. And for me that seemed to be enough, at least to get me through grade school. And then as learning got deeper and the topics got more difficult, I had to kind of dig. I think more inside of myself to find the time and give the commitment to the topics that you had to be successful. I think you're echoing something really important, also is that, and there's actually research that backs this up. Is that early in education, students might adopt a real focus on some of those external motivators. And it sounds like you're commenting on that, early on it was about doing well overall. What was your definition of doing well back then, you remember? It was very much get As in class. My parents made it known to my brother and I at a very early age that we had to do well in order to be able to get to college. So that for me was a goal from fifth grade and on, something like that. And so I think there's research that confirms that early on many students adopt this kind of external mindset about learning. Which isn't inherently a bad thing because there are powerful external motivators out in the world. And there are very important reasons to learn well and do well. But what about the tension between, I think you mentioned this as far as later in your career. The tension between being motivated by something out in the world and being motivated by something more internal to yourself? I think that started to arise when I got to points where I started to question were the grades that I was getting in class and receiving. Truly reflective of how I felt I was learning or how I felt, just self worth and value. I feel like I'm trying hard, but I dont know if I want to commit the amount of time it takes to get what is considered an A, a high mark in this class. Whereas, I feel I'm still learning effectively and this is just added pressure. And so, I think intrinsically, in and of myself, I started to think about why am I learning? Why do I want to learn? I'm actually having fun doing this. And then I started to go after and learn and look at topics that excited me. Not just because somebody told me this is what I should be interested, but because I chose them for myself. Yeah, it's interesting because you're commenting on that. I think a lot of students experience that same thing where they find something that they're very passionate about and they end up pursuing it. But it seems like it would be really great if we could actually bring that into the classroom. At least in my opinion, there's nothing inherent about the classroom that means students can't be internally motivated by something a teacher gives them. It's that I got it from a teacher doesn't make it, so that I'm never going to be personally interested in it. It's just something happens in school that often prevents that from arising. So do you have any thoughts on, either from your personal experience or what we as educational technology analysts can do. To try and create that more personal motivation, even when we're designing well-formed interventions. I think you have to keep adaptivity at one of the highest priorities. I think the classroom in a lot of ways is for a lot of people, can be very rigid. Because of that, when they find something interesting, maybe they feel silenced or they don't feel like they can go and explore this topic. And it's going to help them getting hired or finishing school and getting hired whatever. And so being able to identify when students have something that they are very interested in and then allowing them to pursue that. And still somehow maybe tie it back to whatever the universal message of this class or the learning points. That's something that I think would be very beneficial. So you're saying it would be good to have a class where students can kind of be given a bunch of topics to explore. And choose which topics they'd like to explore and when and how. Mm-hm. Yeah. As long as they're, I think, dense enough and they're ones that actually would merit a good amount of work. And you can make those calls as an educator. Then yeah, that would be a great type of class. Those were the kind of classes I enjoyed. So, Jerry would enjoy this class, so. You don't know this, but that's exactly the motivating principle behind the design of this class. We've given the students a library of information, such as this interview. To explore and kind of find what's the most interesting and pertinent to them. Oh, great, yeah. So, but what about the role of technology in all this? It seems like, everything we've talked about so far is kind of general to education, the classroom as a whole. What can technology do specifically to help us with this? Facilitating students' personal motivation in these topics. One thing I think about is how technology nowadays has access to so much information. And because they have access to that information, when students are being, we're collecting responses from students and we're analyzing their feedback, their answers or whatever. We can look at those things and make choices about or give them recommendations about things they may become interested in. So the technology is what would allow us to adapt where it may be more difficult in a traditional classroom for professor to give that individual attention to each student. I think that's something that technology could definitely do. I agree, I think that technology also has the benefit of making a lot of these resources always very easily available. That in the past, it was a case of if I wanted to start your class where students can choose their own topic. I could say, today in class, you're going to go to the library, find an encyclopedia, find a book and research it yourself. But that means that students have 15 minutes to one day to do all the research and find their own direction, which is isn't really enough time. But now we can say you have all semester, you have the internet. You have as much time as you're willing to invest. You can go in any direction you want without ever leaving your office. Right. So I think that's really powerful in making that available. Do you have any thoughts on the role of artificial intelligence in this? I don't know if you have any experience with how AI can kind of help personalize this and if you don't, I'll comment on it, but. I don't have any deep experience, but I think AI systems can be the ones responsible for finding those things that and making those recommendations for students. So I think that might be a good application. Yeah, a friend of mine is actually working on a project kind of like that that's a digital assistant for research like this. That if you're working for something, it can actually connect you out to ongoing research in the field or similar ideas. Or just help you kind of build a broader knowledge of what you're researching without having to find everything on your own. Mm-hm. So and do you have any final thoughts for our students who might be worried about facilitating motivation in the technological devices that they build? Yes. My recommendation is for any roadblocks that you ever run into from a motivation standpoint is to have friends. Have people around you that support you. I think every time that I reached one of those blocks in my life, that's what helped pull me through, more than anything else. That actually speaks, I think to something we've commented elsewhere in this class on as well. Is that when we're building technology, we need to be able to facilitate interaction among students. It's very tempting to treat my system as the student and whatever I'm building. But in reality, it should be the student, their friends, their teachers, their mentors, things like that. And my device which is facilitating interaction amongst all of them. It's almost the intrinsic motivation that grows out of us, as well as the extrinsic motivators. I think it's driven by people, it's a people-based thing. Absolutely. Okay, well thank you so much for talking to us today. Absolutely. And thanks all for watching. So I'm here with Courtney Drake, who's a product manager here at Udacity. So thank you for talking to us today. Absolutely. So the first thing I wanted to ask was that, there's this perception for online education that's very disconnected and impersonal. And does that necessarily have to be the case? I don't think it does. And I would say that's something that we have really focused on. Udacity is the kind of research and our experience with students, that social learning is more effective than not social learning. And so that's something that we have really actually invested in quite a bit, especially this year. I think the challenge with social learning is that you still want to preserve some of the core benefits of online learning, like self-pacing and students' ability to kind of have their learning schedule be flexible around their life schedule. So those kind of butt up against the ability to connect students and have them really build deep connections with each other, when their are not really in a synchronous environment. I think those are some of the challenges. We focus on a couple of different ways of integrating, Interaction, and collaboration into our online learning platform. The first way is through forums. And through forums, we've really focused on, how can we help students help each other, and help them answer each other's questions, and share with each other, and share with a broader community of students. But it turns out that it hasn't really been enough for students to feel like they are in a community. Especially,say, when it's a nano degree community that 500 plus students, it's really hard to feel like I"m connected to those other 499 other students. So we've moved more recently in addition to forums, is small learning communities that we're calling teams. So when students sign up for a nano degree, this is kind of rolling out progressively. They get matched up with a group of ten to 12 other students who they then have a chat room with through the course of their nano degree experience. And what we're hoping will kind of happen through that is they build a personal connection with those other students. And that's kind of their first point of contact if they have a question, is run it by my team members. If we can answer it ourselves awesome, and if not then we're posting to the forums or going to coach support to ask for support from Udacity. And we're hoping that will kind of help with three problems around social learning, one is accountability, is feeling like there are other people who care about my progress, and if I drop off that doesn't just effect me, that effect other people. The other is just a level of engagement. I don't feel like I'm alone. And the third piece is if I'm helping other people and I'm teaching other people, I actually learn more that way. So having those connections where we can kind of have a back and forth chat exchange, can actually deepen what I'm learning if I'm the one who's the helper. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I think that exactly what you just described is something we try and create in our OMS classes, which we do it on piatza right now at least. And I think we exactly try and create that, is a lot of interaction among students and very frequent interactions, so that I feel like there is a community here, present right now, and if I write something I'm going to get a response. Yeah. Pretty quick and pretty targeted to what I'm talking about. Another interesting thing that happens in the OMS community is that the largest social community around it is actually a student run community. It's run by several students who created the Google Plus community. And I think that creates a lot of interesting ownership. Because it's student run it's not this kind of thing that I'm being handed and being asked to play by your rules. Is there anything we can do when designing online technologies or educational technology in general to kind of allow room for these kind of student driven communities to emerge? Yeah, so when we've experimented with how do we help students create small communities. And when we have just kind of let them have a free for all, we found that they don't, it's like some students start it, and the really driven students will start smaller communities. And it's really awesome when they do that, and we've seen some great interaction. But the norm is not, I'm going to start a community or I'm going to join a community on my own. And so we've actually felt like we've needed to give students more structure to form those communities. That's just why we have facilitated this way of having them join a team from the very beginning. We say, tell us you're availability. We will put you in a team. And then let them go from there. So we felt like we actually needed to create that structure. And I guess we'll see if, how the ownership plays out there. And even when we've experimented with that, saying we're going to actually put you in teams together. We found that, unless one student really steps up into some kind of leadership role, they kind of fall flat. And so, where we've said, okay, how do we scale really solid community interaction if we don't necessarily know who those students are who are going to step up into a leadership role? And so, they actually see it the idea for a guides program, is what we're calling it. Where we're enlisting students who are farther ahead in nano degree programs, who have graduated, to come back and be a guide for our teams. So, they're coming to weekly sessions with those teams. And they're engaging in chat with those teams throughout the week, to really help them foster a sense of community, and get to a point where they're really gelling and can carry themselves forward on their own. So that's something we've just started. It's pretty cool, because it is actually students who are coming back into that fray. And it's actually really nice kind of a motivational piece, to kind of say, look at this other student who is in the same place I was three months ago. And look at all they know. And maybe they even have a job already that I want to get. Eventually. So it's a nice piece of motivation, and it's also a way for us to kind of have feet on the ground, know what's going on. And make sure that those communities are healthy and strong. That actually sounds very similar to what we do in the EOS program, because what you describe is very similar to TAs. When we solicit next semester's TAs from this semester's students. And I think it works really nicely when we have a big group of very, very good students who are passionate about helping. Yeah. Who aren't just, you know, crossing an item of a to-do list, but really enjoy helping out their fellow students. Yeah. Perhaps, one of the most inspiring things about the LMS program is that we see a lot more of those students who want to help each other and want to come back and work on it and contribute to the class. So yeah, it's been very inspiring [INAUDIBLE] work nicely. Yeah. So one thing I've noticed also is that we have a stereotype that online education is impersonal, disconnected. And then, like you just said, that there are ways we can actually compensate for that. Mm-hm. But are there times when the online environment actually makes it even better than it could be in person, do you think? I definitely think that there are times, for sure. And one piece of it is the geographical reach that we get with online learning. Is that we have students who are connecting from all over the world. And that's a really powerful experience for someone who has never done that before. And if you're all in the same place, you don't get that kind of diversity of perspective that you do with a global learning community. So we definitely have that piece. The other piece is that if it's less synchronous and people are running on their own schedules, it means they're kind of available whenever. We've actually leveraged mbile for this with the team feature that we just released where we have mobile chat apps on both iOS and Android. So I've had this happen with my own team which I'm participating in, where I will be at a dinner or something. And I see that my team chats something. And I can just pop back in and answer a question. So they come ubiquitous. Nature of the internet, really helps students connect more frequently with each other than just if we're having a class once a week or something like that. It keeps and keeps the communication flow happening more easily. Yeah, I agree completely. I think one of my experiences being an instructor in this program has been that I can sign onto Piazza that we use for our forums right now, and in five minutes, I can interact with ten different students. Yeah. And come back an hour later and do it again. And in person you really can't have that. Right.. That frequency of interactions. That kind of, that perception is 27 available. Really changes what we can do and how often we can interact. For sure. Well thank you so much. Absolutely. Hope it help. So if you've seen any of the other interviews that I've done here at Udacity, you'll notice that I'm now in the other chair. And the reason is that what we're talking about today is a subject near and dear to my heart. It's my dissertation topic, which is intelligent tutoring systems. So, Jason has graciously offered to interview me on this one. So. So, all right, David. Let's get started. So what got you interested in working in intelligent tutoring systems? So from the time I was 16 until throughout my PhD, I actually worked as a private tutor. So I tutored mostly high school subjects. Math, physics, things like that. And it was late in my Master's degree when I became acquainted with a field called intelligent tutoring systems. And it was basically, let's build AI agents that can do the tutoring. And the opportunities offered by them were absolutely enormous for accessibility, availability, cutting costs and being able to distribute these things to a large number of students. And so I really wanted to jump on board, plus I always joke that if anyone was going to replace me with an AI agent, it may as well be me. [LAUGH] So my initial interest was really wanting to bring the benefits of tutoring, one on one tutoring where you have real individualized feedback and individualized attention to a much broader audience of students that wouldn't be able to access it other wise. Okay. All right. What is the most exciting possibility of intelligent tutoring systems? So, we've already seen intelligent tutoring systems do some really exciting things, things like Carnegie Learning's Cognitive Tutor for algebra in high school and things like that. But what I think is the most exciting opportunity is what the Internet can do to actually scale these things up. So right now, we have students using them in classrooms and they use them as complements to their lessons, but some new initiatives are looking at actually putting that online, which is really powerful because it takes that and it makes it available to everyone. So things like IXL that do some rudimentary kind of intelligent tutoring system principles for the masses. But what's really, really exciting, and this is a little bit further out though, is the idea that, in the future, we might not just have intelligent tutoring systems that can kind of monitor what you do, and give you feedback that it already kind of knows about. Mm-hm. But intelligent tutoring systems that, themselves, can learn. So if I have a intelligent tutoring system equipped with some machine learning that can look at 100,000 students, and look at what feedback it gave to what mistakes and what actually led to future improvement, it can actually then improve itself. It can learn what teaching strategies, or what feedback, or what responses are most useful to students for certain kinds of errors. And then it might be able to start to unlock some principles of feedback or some principles of teaching that we don't even know about yet. When I was tutoring back in my earlier life, I worked with maybe ten students at a time. I've probably worked with 50 or 60 students over the course of my career. And I drew from that a lot. But 50 or 60 students, it's a decent knowledge base. But if we had an AI agent that could do it based on a 100,000 students or a million students, and experiences across the entire course of their curriculum, that would be incredibly powerful. Absolutely. And the other thing is that when I'm working with students, usually I'd get them maybe in ninth or tenth grade, and very often what I would find is that the difficulties they were having with a certain concept in math in tenth grade really went back to difficulties they had with fractions in fifth grade. Okay. And really, the ideal would be, a system like this would prevent those difficulties from arising in the first place. It would teach them well in fifth grade. But even if it didn't do that, if we had a intelligent tutoring system that worked with them throughout their entire education, it would be able to look back and say what did I teach you back in fifth grade? What difficulties did you have there? And kind of leverage those right now. I know that this student has always had a little bit of trouble with fractions. So when I come to a new lesson I know that I can anticipate giving a little bit more feedback on that. And couching it in terms of what I've told them in the past. So, that kind of long term memory, that kind of massive data bank really opens up some really exciting possibilities if we can figure out a way to harness it. Oh, wow. Absolutely. What are some of the biggest challenges facing intelligent tutoring systems? So, I think there's really two big challenges that are presently facing intelligent tutoring systems. One is the idea of invisible information. Mm-hm. So when I'm working with a student and they're working on a particular problem, I can see the steps they're writing out, that that is their first step, that is their second step. But when they make an error, I don't necessarily know what was going on inside their mind. I can kind of use what they said and use what they wrote to try and extrapolate it, but I don't have a real notion of that. That comes up in things like algebra, but it's even more important in things like science or some of the more high level classes. Ideally, we like to build intelligent tutoring systems that deal with those levels as well. When the nature of the problems themselves becomes much less formal and much less structured. And in an algebra problem, I know that there's, you know, five steps to get to the answer to this problem. But if my problem is, design a good user interface for facilitating learning sign language, I don't know what the problems are. I don't know what the steps are. I don't know how to evaluate that. And so, for those big, open-ended projects or those big things that aren't really constrained environments, that's where we have a lot of information that's invisible, because it's inside the student's own head. And that makes it very difficult for humans to operate on, let alone computers. If they can't see it, they can't operate on it. Right. And then the other issue is that there's information that we as humans can process that right now, it's difficult for agents to process. For sure. So when I'm working with a student, I can tell based on their facial expression, are they bored, are they tired, are they really excited, are they really confused, are they really frustrated. And those all inform how I react to them. If they're frustrated, I'm going to be a little more patient. If they're excited, I'm going to maybe push a little bit further or connect to some bigger topics. Right now, computers are starting to have a little bit of ability to do that kind of facial recognition, but it's not quite there yet and it's not fast enough to equip a tutor with. And so the other challenge that those systems are really going to face is processing the full range of information that we humans can process or reading the student, understanding that, understanding a little bit about their background and the context in which they're working. So I think those are the two main challenges that they'll need to overcome. Okay. So, thank you again, Jason for peppering me with questions on my own topic. Absolutely David, anything for you, you know that. [LAUGH] [LAUGH] And thank you all. So if you've seen any of the other interviews that I've done here at Udacity, you'll notice that I'm now sitting in the other chair. And that's because today we're talking about a topic that was part of my dissertation research, which is Exploratory Learning Environments. So Jason has agreed to give me my questions, and interview me on the topic. So thank you. [SOUND] Absolutely, anything for you David. I think I've said that before in another video. So what makes exploratory learning environments so powerful in education? So the reason I really like exploratory learning environments in education is that they let us build circumstances, or build situations, or build opportunities for students that are pretty hard to have in a real classroom. Also in my dissertation research we did in the context of middle school ecology. And doing scientific inquiry and scientific modeling in that domain, and when you're really doing inquiry in ecology. You're usually doing things that take months or years to gather the data on, you build models that cover decades of time, or our current climate change models are covering centuries or millennia in time, it get's the projections out that far. And our students in the classroom, they have 45 minutes or maybe two weeks for a unit. They don't have time to sit around gathering 12 months of data or 24 months of data or anything like that. The real power of exploratory learning environments is it lets us take those very real, very authentic opportunities from the real word, take away some of the constraints, or the obstacles to using them in the classroom and strip them down to only those things that are useful for the learning. So, in our research we had students simulate what would happen to a particular ecological system over a very large time scale. Under different initial circumstances. So if the system started like this, what would it look like ten years from now? If it started like this, what would it work ten years from now? In person, we can't model a system for ten years for a middle school class project. Right. Of course. But we want them to get that experience of what it's like to authentically investigate that problem. And so the real power in exploratory learning environments is to open up those opportunities. But more than just opening up those opportunities as well, the real, the meat of them is also how they give students ownership over that process. So they're called exploratory because the student is exploring. The student is driving what they're doing. The student is going in and saying I think want to research this today, or I want to go explore this area, depending on the the nature of the environment. Right. And so it's not something that we're telling them you have to do this, and then this, and then this. And here's your assignment, and here's your reading for the day. They get to take charge. And that builds a lot of ownership, a lot of engagement in it. Experience or constructing is personal. And it's different for everybody. Right. And so that's why I love using them in that, because it teaches students the skills they need to actually survive in their eventual real world. That when you're on the job, hopefully you don't have someone holding your hand and giving you your to do list for the day. [LAUGH] You might. But, hopefully, you don't. You're given some free reign, and you're trusted to go forward with it. And so exploratory learning environments are a way of opening up those opportunities, those experiences to students earlier in their education. Sounds like it's going to build a lot of confidence for those students. I hope so, yeah. Actually in our experience in that class it did, we had a couple students who didn't consider themselves very good in science. Right. But it was when they were told, you have the power to question certain accepted truths. Based on the evidence that you gather, that it gave them this idea that, I don't have to necessarily be a scientist to do research. You need to become one eventually to do it in the real world, but the idea that beliefs and theories are constructed based on evidence, and you have the power to gather evidence. That's a really powerful idea for students to have that early in their science education. Absolutely. When designing a learning environment, what is important to keep in mind? So for me, the main thing to keep in mind when designing these environments, is to preserve the authenticity of whatever problem you're mimicking. I say that because there's a very strong tendency among some who would design some environments like this to really gamify it. And I have a strong opposition to gamifying just because it creates, creates some nice motivation, but it's motivation that isn't rooted in the material. Right. And so, we can have an exploratory learning environment where, for example, you're gathering evidence to explain why certain species went extinct. Mm-hm. And every time you find a piece of evidence you get 10 points. And that's not very often think about it. Right. You're basically just looking around finding clues. What we really want to do when we're creating these exploratory learning environments, is preserve the authenticity of whatever activity we're mimicking out in the real world. If scientist use simulations for example, we want to our students to use the same kind of simulations that scientist use. Right. We want them to derive value from it based on what predictions they can make. Not whether or not they achieved an objective or got an achievement, or got a trophy or something like that. Right. So I think it's really important to preserve what it is you want to teach in that environment. And make sure it's what you want to teach that's actually the motivating part of engaging with that environment. So you're talking about focusing on the learning goals as opposed to the gamification of the.- Right, exactly. All right, very good. We talked a lot about learning environments in the middle school. I'm wondering what sort of application for high school or the collegiate level exists. So you're right. I think most often we see explored to our learning environments used in lower and middle school. And part of the reason is that they, they make things very engaging. They are very visually attracted, they are very interactive, they're very interesting to look at. Right. And so I think that's one of the reasons we see them a lot at the earlier ages. But I think they have a very strong place later in life, that the constraints that we deal with at the lower and middle school levels don't go away when we're in college. We're dealing with the same kind of things of when we're learning about ecology, we're learning about systems and we're learning about systems that take place over a very long period of time. I think the difference is that the authenticity actually comes out. Even more strongly than when we're doing it later in our college career so we don't need to dress up as much. We don't need to make it as colorful. We can actually just sometimes give students the tools that real people use. And this is especially, I think the case, in computer science education. The IDEs in many ways are exploratory learning environments. You're exploring the API. Right. You're exploring the different results of different programs and things like that. So, I think it definitely has a place later in the educational career. But I think Jason's right that, I think that exploratory learning environments are most often used at the lower middle school levels. And if your interested in working with lower middle school students, or even maybe some high school students, I think it's a really, really nice domain to explore. It lead's itself to some really fun projects, and some really interesting projects that can really motivate students. But I also encourage you to think about some of the ways we could use the same kind of principles in later education. So, thank you for chatting with me about this. Of course Kevin. If you've watched any of the other interviews I've done here at Udacity you'll notice that I'm in the other chair today, and that's because we're talking about a topic that is very important to me. My dissertation research was on using an intelligent tutoring system in an exploratory learning environment to teach students meta-cognition. And meta-cognition is really the thing I'm ultimately most interested in, so I'll be talking about that today. Also, Jason has again agreed to give me my questions for this little interview. All right David, let's get started. Why do you have so much interest in meta-cognition? So the main reason I have a lot of interest in meta-cognition is that there's actually research, that you've probably covered so far in this lesson, that shows that meta-cognition is the chief determinant in students success going forward. That if there's on thing we can teach them, that will really ensure that they're successful in later academic career, it's meta-cognition. It's thinking about how do I learn, what are the best processes for me? How do I monitor that when I'm trying to learn something if I'm struggling. Instead of just continuing to just struggle and assume that there's something wrong with me if I can't learn this material. How can I actually reflect on this, and say what is it about this that I'm struggling with, and how can I adjust for that? So to really treat the learning process as a first class object. Really think about that as a part of the learning, that the process is something that I can control, that I get to drive my own learning. And this is really important because, it's kind of that old principle, if you teach a man to fish, he'll eat for a lifetime. If you teach a person to learn, they'll learn for a lifetime. Many times in education we're focused on teaching students some material, and the material is very important and I would never insult that. But if you teach a student to learn in general, that's really going to help them later in their life, and that's the main reason I'm most interested in meta-cognition. I think that philosophically, it's what really determines students success, and there's also empirical evidence that says that. A student's mindset towards learning is what will determine whether or not they're successful at new things that they come across. Oh wow. That's pretty powerful. Yeah. What are some of the main challenges in teaching students about meta-cognition? So the main challenge is that meta-cognition by its very definition is inside the head. It's I'm thinking about my own thinking. So the thinking is inside the head, but at least when I'm thinking about like the cameras that are in front of me, I can think about how they work. I can reason about them physically. I can reach out. I can adjust them. I can manipulate them. When I'm thinking about thinking, I'm thinking about something that's inside my head as well, and so if I'm teaching somebody algebra, I can look at the output of what they're doing. But with meta-cognition, I'm not looking explicitly on the output of their meta-cognition. I'm looking at the output of the thought that was reasoned over, so there's a couple layers of separation away, we're talking so much about thinking about thinking, it's a little bit hard to even have the conversation. [LAUGH] That's part of the reason why it's so difficult, is that, what are we thinking about and when. So that's part of the difficulty. But because we're not operating on something that we can see, we're kind of feeling around in the dark, and we're trying to figure out what a person is really thinking underneath the hood, so to speak. Can I look at the things that you're actually outputting, or saying, or writing, and use that to infer something about the meta-cognition that went into it, and it's very difficult. And it's difficult for human tutors, for AI tutors it's even more difficult, because they don't have the benefit of all the information that we have. They don't have the nat's of the human empathy that I think a lot of teaching meta-cognition to another person is that you're a person, I'm a person. To a certain extent, I can put myself inside your mind, and I can kind of re-simulate that. Computers have no natural ability to do that. Right. So even just building in human empathy, or human thought, or human, approaches to problems, is part of being able to teach them to do, to teach meta-cognition. So yeah, the main reason it's difficult is what we're operating on is invisible, and it's not easy to manipulate something you can't see. For sure. Yeah. How can technology foster meta-cognitive development? So even the main thing that we first have to wrestle with is exactly the same issue that I mentioned before. The main challenge to facilitating meta-cognitive development is making the invisible visible. Right Taking what's invisible inside the brain and putting it out on the page, putting it in software, somewhere like that. And so the way we can do that, is by structuring the environment in which this development takes place, such that students have to make that explicit. So one way we can do it is by asking them to do what we call think-aloud protocol, which is where they go through an activity and just think aloud about it. It's not the best approach because research has shown that, when I ask you, while you're doing whatever you're about to do, tell me what you're thinking? It actually changes the way you think, and so I don't get at the root of what you would really think if you weren't actively reflecting on it. But at the same time it gives you a learning experience of making your own thought process explicit, which is very valuable that even sometimes just making students aware of what they're thinking. Even if we're not entirely sure what they're actually thinking, just forcing them to reflect on it can be the most valuable learning experience of all. But in my dissertation research, what I ended up doing was taking a certain part of the activity that students were completing and asking them to output that to the page. So it was constructing theories to explain natural phenomenon, and part of that is why do I believe what I believe. That's part of meta-cognition, is reflecting on the internal reasons that underly my beliefs. And so we took that and basically said, take whatever it is that makes you believe what you're currently believing, and put it on the page. Code it in a certain way as a kind of classification system of saying this is an example of this kind of belief, this is an example of this kind of belief, and put it out there. So we're making explicit, something about the meta-cognitive process. It's not always easy. Actually, it's never easy, but it's not always impossible, but for certain domains, we can do some things where students are asked to make their meta-cognitive process explicit. And in fact, it's something that we do, I think, really strongly in this class, or at least we try to, which is take the way you think about the course material and externalize it. Externalize it into context to your own problems. Externalize it in the context of the solution that you'd like to develop, and share that with your classmates. And in that way, you're sharing a little bit about how you approach the problem, and how you're thinking about a problem with others to get feedback on your meta-cognition a little bit more explicitly. Again, not easy, and I don't think I could even begin to imagine right now how I might design an AI agent to be a TA, or an instructor for this class. [LAUGH] But maybe several years from now, based on a project that someone in this class starts to develop, we might start to see a meta-cognitive agent that's more than just a tutor, or guide. It's actually kind of a partner, or a mentor in an environment like this. It can mimic some of the things that it wants you to learn to do, which I think is really the best approach for teaching meta-cognition, is to demonstrate it. To show, this is how I would think about this problem that you might want to think about this way, so. That's fascinating. Thank you again, Jason, for interviewing me on another topic. Of course, dude. And thank y'all. I'm sitting here with Andy Brown, who's one of the people who heads up a lot of our education initiatives here at Udacity. And in fact, not long ago, Andy was kind of lead on transitioning a lot of what we do at Udacity to a more project-based approach, to have students completing projects as part of their experience and learning different skills. So, thank you so much for talking to me today, Andy, about project-based learning. Yeah, thanks for doing this. So the first thing I want to ask, and I think this comes up a lot when we're dealing with teachers who want to do a project-based approach, but are very stretched for resources. Is that project-based learning, at least in my opinion, is much more difficult to implement in a classroom than some traditional instruction of just lecturing or giving material straight away. Is it worth the extra effort, and if so why? Yes, it's absolutely worth doing project-based learning. And now that there's all sorts of free resources online there's a lot of free time, potentially, for instructors to be spending their time coming up with and helping their students as they go through these project activities. There's lots of great explanations, lots of great sort of static resources out there that, they're going to solve a lot of the sort of, what am I going to say? How am I going to explain this topic? And, in fact to me that's not the interesting part of the teaching. The interesting part of the teaching is how am I going to shepherd this person along as their brain transforms, and that's best done through an authentic project. So, yes it's totally worth it. It is hard. But it's getting easier. But it's getting easier. Yeah. This is your job if you've signed up to it. Exactly, I think I've always had the idea that you just referred to of basically building a course around all these awesome free materials that are available online. Because there's so much out there that wasn't out there before, and that led to this class which is an entire class based largely around the materials that are already free online. Instead of trying to reinvent the wheel and represent things that have already been presented very well, let's just see if we can leverage it and spend our time on kind of the more student-focused, mentoring and feedback. Speaking of feedback, so one thing that's very difficult I think in project-based learning is assessment. When, you know, I have a bunch of students who all do the same math problem. I know what the correct answer is. I know what the steps are. And, it's very easy for me to go through and say, you screwed up step two, you screwed up step four. But so what. What do you know when you've done that? Yeah, that's true. But yeah assessment in projects is more difficult, isn't it? It's a little more open ended. It is but it's getting more towards what you actually want to be measuring. So yes it's very easy to measure my, some students ability to factor ten polynomials correctly. It's just not a very interesting measurement. Every now and then you'll find things that can be assessed that way. Or really it's very important to know these facts before you can move on. But I'm guessing that if you as an educator ask yourself, what do I really want? How do I want to change my students with this learning experience I'm crafting? You'll find it's really hard to phrase that in terms of some multiple choice questions or anything like that. And this is especially a danger when you're doing online project based learning. Because multiple choice questions are by far the easiest things to do online. Right, wrong, tally up a score. You have a little green progress bar and it works. But that experience just is never going to be even close to what you can get if you try to do the project based learning. Yeah, exactly. And I think that we have, many of our courses, not our courses, but courses that are currently available online, or built around these multiple choice tests. But you have exactly that, where often times they have repeatability built into them. Which is great, because you learn from your failures. You get problems wrong, you move forward and learn. But when you have only a small set of possible answers, what you're really learning is that c isn't the answer to that question. You're not learning the deeper understanding of what's going on there. But for a teacher who has dealing with, for example in our class, possibly a 100 different projects, all of which need feedback. Are there any strategies to how to give feedback in such a way that students can actually improve on it while doing the project as opposed to just finding out at the end that they already failed. Yeah, if you can bake feedback into the nature of the project itself. So an example for building an HTML, a webpage let's say. If you don't know anything about programming, sorry! If you're building a webpage and I say build a webpage that looks like this and I give you a little image that looks like a webpage. The feedback is pretty natural, the feedback is like well it doesn't look like that anymore, you don't need the instructor to come tell you that, the student knows it. And then if you can set up systems of feedback within students, you'd be amazed the things that can happen when you do the terrifying thing of stepping back as an instructor and just letting your students screw up and sort of screw up together. That can be a really amazing learning experience. There has to be some constraints placed on that, but you can do it really well. So, yeah, if you find yourself staying up until 4 AM, frantically grading 100 projects, it's probably not ideal, and you're probably killing yourself. [LAUGH] So, you're probably not giving the best feedback to your students that you could, because nobody could do that And there's probably a more creative solution that will be just as good. Yeah, it sounds like there are a lot of ways that we can go about that, like giving exemplars that a student can, on their own, compare their assignment to some exemplar. And see where it's different and where it's similar, maybe building in some automated assessment through some artificial intelligence. Not just that question was wrong, but something a little bit deeper about the real nature of learning. And then let the peers give them feedback on it. I think we often learn best from people who are going through the same struggles that we're going through. But you mentioned doing this in the context of web design. I think you're exactly right that we often talk about project based learning, the context of computer science because professionally, what we do in computer science is mostly projects. What about some other fields like accounting or nursing or, can't think of another field. But other fields where, it's not necessarily a project based on what you actually do. Can project based learning be used there? Or is there something that can be done that kind of perpetuates the same philosophical underpinnings of project based learning. I think those fields are still project based, actually. I think. I think we've overloaded this word, project. In computer programming, project can be what you call the thing you're working on on the side, this cool webpage you're building. In project-based learning, the word project means something very specific. It means an authentic task, an extended task, so it won't be completed in a single day. It's sort of loosely defined, so there's room for creativity. And the nurse who is monitoring my blood glucose levels, that's a project. The accountant who's doing my taxes, if anyone who wants to do project-based learning and do my taxes, that'd be good. [LAUGH] But that's a project, right? That's an authentic thing. Like balancing the books on this company, that's an authentic thing. So I think projects are there, if you can find them. Yeah. And if they're not, a computer's probably doing that job already. That's true. That makes a lot of sense that we, you know, in pure sense we talk about projects because it's something where I create the idea, I implement it, I execute it and I deliver it. But you're exactly right, a project can be anything on going. It's got some investment in it, but doesn't necessarily have to be completely open to whatever the student want's to specify. So, this is an educational technology class and so we're really looking for the ways that we can use technology to enhance education. Maybe the learning process or maybe education as a broader community. So specifically on the technology front, are there things that technology lets us do in project based learning that are difficult to do in person? Let me start by saying the things that technology tempts us to do that we would never do in person. And that's the things like the radio button quizzes. The sort of like, oh, I know how to do a project, and I'm going to have 10 check box quizzes that I'll ask about how much would you put in this box of my tax return if you're doing the account in the example. That's not authentic. Nobody thinks it's authentic. It's not fun. It's not a good product base learning. It's a very, like, superficial substitute. And, it's really tempting to do because it's so much easier than anything else. The things that the Internet give you. The Internet gives you scale and it gives you access, so. I mean it gives you the chance to have people from across the country, across the world, working together on a task at any hour. That's pretty cool. Yeah. But, it's a lot of work to set up, and there's a lot of ways it can go wrong. [LAUGH] So, [LAUGH] I mean, there's tradeoffs for sure, but still, it's a better way of learning, if you can find a way to make it work. Yeah. Makes sense, and I think that technology gives us a lot of ways to, exactly what you're saying, make it a little bit more open. That it's not necessarily something that has to happen within the confines of the one hour lecture that we have set aside for this class three days a week. It's something that can happen at three o'clock in the morning when I just happen to be online and a student asks a question. Or you know there's a project to review and I can watch their progress live which I really have difficulty doing in person. At Georgia Tech we actually have some classes that have tried to implement that approach. Where students will come to a lab and there's no lectures or anything like that, but there is set-aside class time that they're expected to be there. And the idea is sit there, work on your project, and someone will be in the room to give you feedback. But that's a pretty big pragmatic constraint of they have nine hours a week where they're required to be in the studio working on a project. During that time. And now we also have a person who has to be there during that time, whereas the Internet allows us to do that a little bit more asynchronously. Because it makes the classroom unlocked 24/7. So do you have any final thoughts for our students who are both engaging in project-based learning in this class, and may also be trying to develop tools that facilitate project-based learning? Yeah well, if you're going through this class, which is itself an example of project-based learning, reflect on what's going well and what's not. There's learning to be done just in that. When you go on to try to do project-based learning in your own classroom. It's hard. You're not going to get it right to begin with. The bad version will still probably be better than if you hadn't tried, but it's going to feel chaotic and sort of out of control really, out of your control. And that's sort of the nature of project-based learning, is the student's gain more autonomy, which is a lot of the reason why we do it. So stay reflective. Next year will be better. And the next year will be better than that. And this is how we improve at our craft. This is how I justify what I said at the beginning of this course. Which is that there are some things that we'll do in this course that will fail miserably. See now I have an expert saying that's okay. So. Thank you so much for talking with us today, Andy, and for your perspective. And thank you all. So I'm sitting here with Lauren Castellano, who's a production strategist here at Udacity. She deals a lot with producing material for our online courses. She's going to talk to us a little bit about creating online content. So thank you so much for talking to us today Lauren. You're so welcome. So the first thing I wanted to ask is, any of students who are familiar with other platforms may have noticed it. The production values at Udacity tend to be very high, and I don't mean that solely as a compliment. Because when you produce content more on budget, it's easier to make it available to a large number of people, and when you have a high cost associated with it, it kind of creates a barrier. So why do we invest so much into our course production process? So I really look at it as a long-term investment. You wouldn't put this much time and money in a class we're just going to release to 50 people. So we're seeing, we want to see this through, and see students learn from these classes for years, with edits to update them, but. Another thing we've really done is we're investing the student experience, not just the course itself. So yes we could give our highly qualified instructors a camera and they can just stand in front of a blank screen and talk, but we add a lot to it so that the students can have the best experience. So it takes a lot to have all the different quizzes or just making it a little bit fun. When we were talking about material design and filming with Porsches, you just add some stuff and it makes a better student experience. So it's investing in your student not just the course. Yeah, it sounds like we're kind of taking that opportunity, knowing that instead of just this being presented to 75 students a semester, it's going to be presented to thousands or tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of students to really increase what we do. And do maybe we'd like to always do, but we just don't have the resources to do it, initially. And that's one of the things we tell our professors when we're getting started with our courses is, this is the opportunity to do what you've always dreamed of doing with this course. Because you probably can't get the funding to do it when you're teaching it to 75 students once a year, but if you're teaching it to 300 students three times a year, you can do a lot more. So in your position you deal with a lot of people who have never taught online before. Many of them are experienced teachers in person who are just making the transition to the Internet. Others are subject matter experts who have no teaching experience and they're just experts in some domain that we're interesting in. So, let me ask you first when you're dealing with a teacher professor who has an abundance of in-person teaching experience but has never taught online. What are some of the unique issues you wrestle with in trying to transition them to teaching in this online environment? There a lot of things, one thing that you really have to address early on is the nerves that come with teaching online. That a lot of people don't really want to talk about. But when you teach in a classroom to 30 people, if you kind of mess up explaining something, oh well, shoot your students an email. But when you're recording that and broadcasting that to potentially 100,000 students, it's a little more terrifying. And another thing I see really often is, with the more experienced instructors, is they start to teach for their peers. And, not for their students. Because they have to look good for their peers and people that they're going to see at conferences. And, that can get a little bit dangerous from a students perspective. But one of, I think, the best things that come out of that is that the teachers, the professors will validate their material even more than they would just standing in front of 35 people, because they know it's going to be out there forever. They know their peers are going to be reviewing this too, and they take more pride in that, and, I think, so those nerves can kind of play in our favor, but also against us, when we start to lose the student experience in that. So when they try to teach too high level, and it's like, don't do that. So when we're dealing with that issue and we really want to make professors remember the student experience and not just focus on teaching for their peers. What are some of the things that they can do in this environment that they can't do in the regular classroom, that we need to make them aware of? That's a great topic. Because when you get to teach online, the sky's the limit. You have so many options. And it's really important that you think about, when developing a class, that you think about, what are the good teaching tools or examples that I've used in class. Strictly because I'm constrained within four walls, and how can we expand on that? The sky is the limit when you are teaching online. You can do a million different things, and use really cool teaching examples that you could never use in a classroom. One of my favorite examples is when I got to teach with sea lions and I was teaching about classical and operate conditioning. We got to go to a laboratory, see some sea lions and teach the students that way. And they could see how sea lions were learning husbandry skills. It was really awesome. And I could never bring a sea lion into a university classroom. I've asked, they won't let me. [LAUGH] So you can really stretch the box that way. And it's really important for instructors who have taught the same class for every semester for the last ten years, and they use the same syllabus, to kind of just shred that. I would like to tell our instructors don't just think outside of the box, there is no box. The world is your oyster when it comes to teaching online, so really just getting that creativity out of them, when they're so accustomed to doing the same thing over and over again could be challenging. But it's endlessly important for a student experience. Yeah, I imagine that with many of our professors who have been teaching for so long they're very good at the way they teach right now. But I've encountered some at least that I think have forgotten that certain constraints that they have, and it started as constraints, that now they're just kind of part of the fabric of the course. It's something like I have the topics broken up in a certain way, well you only have the topics broken up like that because you've been forced to teach hour and a half lectures all, for the past 20 years. Now you can have a 15 minute lecture followed by an hour long one. So you have a lot of flexibility there. But what about for those incoming instructors who have no teaching experience whatsoever. They're subject matter experts at Google or Facebook or something and, they don't know what it's like to teach at all, but they're experts in their field. How do we help them get accustomed to this? So, one thing that's great about the subject matter experts is they've never started within that box. So, they are really good with the creativity and just expanding on different ideas in giving the practical application of what they're teaching. One of the things that we have to remind them to do is anticipate student's questions. And they don't have experience with students in a classroom, raising their hand saying, wait, I don't understand that point. So as course developers, we try to highlight different areas. And you see expert blind spot a lot with subject matter experts. When you don't as much with professors because they're used to students saying no, that doesn't make sense. So teaching them about expert blind spot and saying okay, you're using jargon there that your intro students are not going to understand. And they're in environments where they don't have to think about that kind of stuff, which is great for them. But it's important for the students that they don't do that anymore when they're teaching. So, Lauren is an expert at producing online content and as a result, she may be using jargon that some of you aren't familiar with. [LAUGH] So, Lauren, can you tell our students what expert blind spot is? Shame on me. Well so expert blind spot is when you have an expert in a field and they use jargon or explain the topic and forget that some people might not know the foundation that the expert has. So you have to take yourself back a few steps and figure out what it is that you just assume people know and what it is people actually do know. So we try to have people lose their expert blind spot, by not having an assumption of the knowledge a student has coming in. We actually need to go in, and explore what their base knowledge is. I have a very fond memories of my freshman calculus class being taught by a Nobel Prize nominated physicist. Fun. Who had no idea what it was like to not know how to do a derivative. And so yeah, I think that's- Yeah. A very important thing to wrestle with. And because we deal with so many subject matter experts here at Udacity, it's even more pertinent, because they have no teaching experience. All they know is their field. Yeah. But I think you're right, it's also a great chance to have that kind of blank slate to work with someone who hasn't developed any bad habits or hasn't really incorporate those constraints of the classroom into their outlook on teaching. Exactly. So in this classroom we might have many people who produce online content for this class or might go into teaching online in the future. In fact, that's one of the project ideas for this class is to actually film a mini-course for some topic you're interested in. So for those who might want to do that for this class or in the future, what advice would you give them on getting started with online teaching? I would say to really reflect on your past teachers. Pick and choose what things that they would do that you really, really liked, and really dissect that. Were they good teachers because of the context they were teaching in, so were they great in a classroom, or do you think what they were doing would translate really well to online, and how can you expand on that? Just shred every syllabus you've ever seen and really start from scratch. Do the whole, think way outside of the box. That there just is no more box, and be creative. Start out with the most outlandish ideas, and then reel it in based on your production constraints. That way, you know, you'll at least have a fun class at the end. Another thing is to be a really honest consumer. You know, how long is it and when you're watching this video until you want to speed me up or skip to the next video? And then try to reflect on that and make a class that you would actually want to watch. Sometimes sitting through a 20 minute screen cast or head shot is not how you want to do it. Most students would just fast forward or be done with it. So reflect on that and think about the content you're making and make sure that you're picking the right medium. Some things are just better if people read them. If you could create a PDF that they should reflect on then come back to video or discussion forum. I don't know if you'll have that or not, but look at your content and then pick the best medium to teach that, teach that content by. So is it video? Is it a screen cast of something? Is it a reading node? Which we call a reading node, but I guess in your case you'd probably be creating a PDF, but something like that. I think the most important thing is being the honest student. Think about things from a student's perspective. Yeah, I know that we've probably given you some examples of some courses out there that we consider to be high quality. We have not given you any examples of courses that we don't consider to be high quality because we don't want that attached to us, but feel free to ask your fellow classmates on the forums for examples of online courses they've taken that were not good. And they might recommend some courses from other platforms. They might recommend some Udacity courses. They might recommend some Georgia Tech courses. But that will give you something to actually learn from, and see not only what to do but what not to do. So, thank you so much Lauren for talking to us today. You're so welcome, yeah. And thank y'all for watching. I'm here with Siya Raj Purohit who is a program manager here at Udacity, managing the app entrepreneurship degree. Thank you so much for talking to us today Siya. Thanks, David. Good to be here. So, Siya is an experienced online student as well as a manager of online programs. So I wanted to start off by asking you, what are some of the exciting new things that are coming out in online education that some of our students might not yet be aware of? So a year ago, Harvard Business School launched a program called HBX CORE. So what is really interesting about this, is that instead of disrupting, it's core business, which is they took graduate students with an MBA degree. Instead, they're extending the pipeline, by targeting students who are undergraduates, or just before the MBA stage, to teach them critical skills in economics, business analytics and financial accounting. So these are the three classes that HPX offers. And it's a thee month program. It costs about $1,500 to $1,800. And students complete it in cohorts essentially. So each cohort consist of about 600 students. And they go through the program and gain these skills. And then take a final exam at a Pearson Test Center. So it's a pretty interesting experience, and I just completed that, about two months ago. That's very cool. It's interesting that, I think, when online education first got started. And the reason why we have separate modules in this course for online learning and MOOCs, is that when online education really got started a few years ago MOOCs were really all the rage. And it was about these giant open courses and we're just going to put it out there and if we build it, they will come. But I think we're seeing more and more of what you're describing of more closed, somewhat gated programs, that have a monetary cost associated with them and have some kind of credential associated at the end. Yeah. And we see the same thing at Coursera and here at Udacity. Can you comment on the new initiatives and those directions at those companies? So finding that in putting courses together is packaged like this improved attention rates across all companies. So HPX Core has a completion rate of 85%, which is really high for online learning. Maybe because of Harvard's name or maybe because of the giant price tag, but it's really working for these companies. And across MOOCs, the average completion rate used to be between three percent and thirteen percent. And with nano-degrees, specializations by Coursera, and the programs such as HPX Core, they've gone up to between 60 and 80 percent completion rate. Wow. Which is much more, because I guess you get a degree of certification at the end. Coursera specializations are really interesting also. I've looked into the business fundamentals one. The is providing collaboration of Coursera. It consists of four courses and the capstone project in the end. So what I really liked about it was the capstone project was designed with 500 start ups, which was this very cool incubator program. And it was like, an option you need to page 500 start ups, or start a problem your solving. However, what I didn't like about the course was that all the, or the program, was that all the four courses were about big business things. So that's like, about like financial accounting the big company or like business analysis at a big company. And not like the start up kind of problems you're trying to solve. As a start up you have no data, you have nothing to like- Yeah, exactly. No finances, either. So, and it's a bit disconnected there. But I really like where they're going with that, and I think that with Vordan's backing, it may get somewhere. Yeah, University of Maryland has one on that platform that's on entrepreneurship as well. It actually has the exact opposite thing, it covers all about funding and startup issues. And basically, by the time that you're in a company with 15 employees, speculation has nothing to say about you, it's all about getting to that initial point. But why do you think there's such a move right now? I guess you already commented on it. The retention rates are higher with these specializations or nano-degrees, what we do, XSeries on edX. Why do you think the retention goes up when we have those knit together programs as opposed to the individual courses? I guess because each of the programs gives you a goal. HPX is trying to pitch that this is preparing you for business school. And they have a huge pipeline of students who are going to be actually part of business school. Coursera is incentivizing students to go through the Warden specialization. Just to get free Warden application in the end. So those kind of initiatives are helping. And of course you get [INAUDIBLE] in careers. So we're trying to help them get an expense for careers, which is great, too. So I think those goals are great. And also, having a cohort system, of students who are kind of encouraging you, and also holding you liable to complete, really helps, too. Yeah. I think we see a lot of that in the LMS program as well. It's actually built in very many ways around the same model. It's a credential at the end. It's some people who join the same semester, and the semesters are long enough that you kind of have a cohort within the semesters. But I would be willing to bet, and in fact we have evidence that suggests that the courses on their own are, they're nice, but very few people take them if there's not that big credential at the end. There's something about that big external motivator that, yeah, is the reason why people go to traditional college. And it sounds like they are trying to include that in some more online education initiatives, even if it means compromising the massiveness of these issues in the past. So, sometimes I was not very motivated during the HBX Core program, because I have a full time job, this is very difficult thing to do. I think we can all sympathize. Ten to fifteen hours a week gets hard. So what encouraged me during that time was my classmates. I became really good friends with some of them and they would be like, okay come on Siya. The deadline's two days from now. Let's get started [LAUGH] and those kind of things. And also what HPS courted very successfully that I think other platforms are trying to emulate is provided a social factor. So you can hear your classmates' responses and stuff as you go through the course. So, when they ask questions, and then they direct questions to you, it keeps you motivated to answer them. Yeah. So, I think those two components really helped. Yeah, absolutely. Do you have anything last you want to say to our online students from the perspective of either someone producing online education or a consumer of online education? Yes, so it's very difficult to complete courses. Especially when you have other commitments. But I think everyone should find at least one friend in every class that they take to make sure that the buddy system works and everyone goes through these courses together. I think that online education will only work if people get incentivized with those kind of social interactions. So definitely find a friend and get started on that. And as designers of ed tech also. Designing things in such a way, that the people using your product or using your tools, can connect with others and possibly partner with them. Or even design tools that explicitly facilitate that. So many of you might be interested in computer supportive collaborative learning, where you can actually develop tools that make this kind of collaboration at a distance much more easy. I think one thing that's been very empowering to me in this program, is that the online environment kind of creates this 24, seven classroom. And because of that, you always have people you can talk to. And you can always go to the classroom and find someone to chat with. And building tools that can enhance that even more. That could really improve what we do in online education. So thank you so much for talking to us Siya. Thanks David. Thank you all for watching. I'm here with Stuart Frye, who's the Vice President of Content here at Udacity. Stuart, thank you so much for talking to us today. Absolutely. So Stuart's going to talk to us a bit about the business side of educational technology. I know many people are interested in seeing if they can develop something they could spin off into a startup. Also Stuart, for any of our students who are interested in going into the startup world or into the ed tech world, on the business side of things, what should they know about what it's like to work in this space? I think it's, one of the most interesting and exciting places to start a new business or launch an innovation right now, but it's also a very complex place to think about, as a market. Education's one of the places where you have multiple users and your end user is not always the person who is making the purchase decisions about the product. So if we think about the spectrum of education from preschool up to higher ed. You have parents, you have teachers, you have students, you have administrators, and the different products that are being launched across K-12 and higher ed are targeted in some way at a mix of those people. And identifying who are your end users, who are your gatekeepers, and who are making the ultimate purchase decisions can be one of the most complex set of decisions you make about your business model, as well as the features and functionality you're going to design the product around. Yeah, and I agree completely. I think that, especially as an educator myself, I'll always think about the student as my consumer, but that's not the person you end up selling to. That's the person that ends up using your tool- [CROSSTALK] Right. And oftentimes what they would think about your tool is not the ultimate issue, learning can be frustrating. Yep. It's the only domain I know of where frustrating your end user can sometimes actually be part of the goal. Yep, absolutely. So I know that some of our students have project ideas already, some of them are probably looking for ideas. They know, they want to go into this space, but they don't know exactly what to do. So are there any open issues, open problems that you think would be worth tackling? Yeah, I mean, I think as you think about problems to solve in the education space, I think your solutions are going to fall into a couple of categories. One is a content category, so, that's where Udacity plays, right? We are creating content that we're making available as part of an online Master's degree program or as part of our nano degree programs. In addition to content, there are tools. So tools either for students, maybe it makes students more productive, a better way to take notes, develop projects, tools for teachers, a better way to discover new content, track data, analyze students. And I think between content and tools, you need to think about which area your solution lies best in. Also, always encourage entrepreneurs to think about a problem you've faced immediately. So, if you haven't spent any time in a classroom as an educator, you might think about tackling a problem that students face, because you have spent time as a student. On the other hand David, you've spent a ton of time as an educator and you probably have a long list of problems that you'd like solved. So I would start there when you think about coming up with a solution or a business idea. Yeah, makes sense, I think in some ways when you're designing for yourself as a customer. It's a good place to start, although you never want to design your entire project that way, because you don't want to design something that's great for you, but doesn't work for anybody else. Right and I think that emphasizes the importance of user testing. At the very earliest stages, I mean any ed tech idea that you have should start as wire frames, pencil sketches, balsamic, mock ups that you get out in front of people. See how they react. Test an idea very early and often rather than, to your point, designing an end solution that works perfectly for you as an individual, but doesn't have product market fit more broadly. Yeah, absolutely. So let's say it's the end of the semester, a day after the final project is due and now students are wondering, what do I do next? What do you think the first step that they should take when the semester's over, to maybe scale their project up and do a business or startup should be? Oh wow, yeah so, this gets back to user testing. I would identify 20 people that could be the end user of your product, and go out and get some version of it in their hands. And when I say a version of it, I do mean it could be a wire frame, it could be a mock up, it could be a prototype in Photoshop, or you could have written some code and built out a very simple working version. But step one is to get it out in front of people, because I guarantee you, your solution will change and evolve over time. And the more quickly you can get input beyond your own, the better. And finding those people to test with isn't always easy, but I think within the context you have, I mean you're on a university or you're surrounded by a community of students, at least. Virtually you can find a lot of people quickly. Yeah, I think that because we're in this community and because I think a lot of the projects that our students develop will actually be targeted at the OS program, because it's what they experience. You've got 3,000 people sitting around, experiencing the same thing that you're experiencing, who might be willing to test it out. Yep, absolutely. I can also share that for the NSF iCore project, which seeks to turn academic research into real world businesses, one of the first things they ask all their participants to do is find 100 customers in one month, and talk to all of them for half an hour. Wow, do they have to be paying customers? I don't think, no, not paying customers yet, but 100 potential customers. Okay. So for this it would be, talk to 100 parents, students, teachers, principals, get the the full range of perspectives on that. Okay. And they really value that side of things as well. Awesome. Anything last to share with our student about working in this field? I think we often say that, there are two big fields that have yet to be disrupted by technology, education, and healthcare. Two pretty important ones, right? I would say that disruption is a word that's often overused and misused. But when you boil down some of the key tenets that Clay Christensen talks about when it comes to disruptive technologies. One of those tenets that I personally find most exciting, I think offers the most promise to powerful solutions in education technology is non consumption. If you think about the fact that, in the United States, only one in three adults has a four year degree. And internationally, only about 7% of people end up with an advanced degree. The number of people, that the things you build, could impact. If you go over and after those people who are least well served by the existing system today, the non consumer of quality education today, people who can't benefit from the system as it's built. That's a huge number of people and it's a massive impact. So look for those non consumers, look for those opportunities to help people who aren't being helped today and you'll build great products. That sounds like part of the foundation, part of the philosophy behind this program in general is finding people who may not be the underserved people in some remote countries, but people who currently can't access quality higher education based on geographic, or family, or- Economic. Yeah, exactly, constraints. Yep. Great. Thank you so much for talking to us today. Absolutely, thanks for having me, hope anything I said is helpful and I hope you build amazing things, good luck. Thanks. I'm here with Tairi Delgado, who's one of the course managers here at. They're the ones who really work one on one with students to help them through projects or help them understand material. I thank you so much for talking to me today. Yeah, thanks for inviting me. So the first thing I wanted to ask you was, many people have this conception that online education is very impersonal. Because we're kind of taking the synchronous in person communication out of it. Do you think online education generally is that impersonal? I think it really is what you make out of it. Personally for me, knowing how a lot of students interact with each other. I see students connect with each other through chat, Facebook, LinkedIn. Getting together in groups. And I think that kind of level of interaction It doesn't have to be impersonal, it could be something very rewarding. You can meet somebody from Dubai or Mexico or China, somebody that you would never have a chance to meet before. And instantly you could have a connection with something that you both have a mutual passion for. When I look at online education, I think in many ways It could be a way to learn things more in a personal way. Because, at least my experience when I was in college was that you would sit in a classroom with 200, 300 people and it's very hard to talk to your professor and get one-on-one advice. I found the most personal experience you can possibly ever have is a small group of people that were your friends that were taking classes together. You could really get the chance to work on the problems are really collaborate with each other. The next best experience I had was, you know very few times but you know, when you had a one on one tutor who really understood what you were struggling with and knew the material very well, and knew how to personalize things for you. I think online education has a benefit of doing both. Because when you're going to these classes you have the opportunity to practice on these quizzes at your own pace, and when you put in your answer, it's not like somebody's just marking whether it's right or wrong. They're actually trying to tell you specific feedback about what's wrong and how to actually fix it. And, you get immediate feedback to work on and practice it more. And I think with the ability of getting groups of people to study together, I think you don't usually have that in all, like, settings. So it's, to be able to have that, I think, you know, can make online education really great. Uh-huh. So it sounds like you're saying that, and correct me if I'm wrong, that there's certain ways that we can do things online that not only break that impersonal nature that people think when they think of online education. But in many ways make it even actually more personable because you've got people talking over the Internet so they can be available all the time. They can leave messages and come back to them later, and as a result it's not bottled into this one hour of lecture time, when we're have a great discussion but now class is over and we have to move on. Or you know press has one hour for office hours a week and you could go to talk to him then, but can't ever interact with them on a regular basis, it sounds like we're really building in a way to interact consistently throughout the experience. Right, actually I'll take it even one step further. I think the traditional model is, like you would go talk to your teacher to get all of the knowledge that you want. But I think in this age, where we're constantly learning new things, and revitalizing our skill sets, sometimes you just need to be able to learn new things. And also facilitate collaboration with a group of small people that you would be working with. So I think this model has changed more from a teacher directed model of presenting lectures, more towards this online content that you can learn. And then if something doesn't quite make sense, you have a group of people that are willing to support you because they're trying to accomplish the same thing. I think that is a powerful motivator, having a group of people that you could interact with and help each other out. Whereas, instead of always going to the teacher, you have a lot more resources to connect with. Yeah, absolutely. I think that's especially the case in our OMS program, and as well as some of the NST nano-degrees. That because they're so flexible, because they're so open, and because they're so cost effective, we attract people we wouldn't attract otherwise. And so, some of the classes I've worked on in the past, we've had experiences where someone in the class is already an expert in their field in something we're talking about, and we can basically say, you know, you don't really need to listen to us about this. You've got so-and-so over there, she's working on a world class project in robotics. Right. And she knows far more about this than we do. And she would never take years off of her career to go get a Masters degree, but if she can do it flexibly like this, she comes and does this, and then she in turn builds the class up even more. Because having her there as a resource, even if she's just a student in the class, is incredible for everybody,so. Yeah, the fact that you bring that up actually cause, we constantly, at least I know for myself like, even though like I've gone through the content I know it pretty well, there's times when you're interacting with students you realize that there's more to learn. And, like you said, every student brings their own perspective. And I think, on top of that, when we're talking about these study groups is that, what we tend to find is that when students explain things to other students they tend to learn content even better. So I think that's one of the actual benefits that normal classroom settings don't really account for. It's like having a lot of time for students to help each other out. Because in the end that's going to be what's going to drive them the most. Yeah, having that classroom that's kind of available 24/7 even though you don't want students to think they're expected to be there 24/7. Having it always available kind of means that things that we usually have to put into the set aside time for lectures, can now just happen organically over a much longer period of time. But the conception that online education is very impersonal doesn't come from nowhere. It came from some courses that are done in a model that makes it very difficult to feel like you're connected. So, in theory, we have some students who are taking this class who will go on to be instructors for online classes, or who will go on to be TAs for other classes at the OMS. What would you recommend to them for when there are teaching classes in the future, making sure to foster the kind of class that could develop this community, this communication between students? Right. I think that's a really good question. So I would take a look at what kind of environment you're trying to set up, and what incentives that gives. So, case in point, I remember when I was back in college, a lot of times it was greater on a curve. And so one thing that we noticed is that a lot of the classes that were graded on curves didn't really a foster a lot of sense of community, because students felt that they competed with each other rather than wanting to help each other out. But in the end it kind of drew back the ability to learn in general. Like, I felt like, because you're so focused on competitive scoring, you're not willing to take the time to really learn from somebody else. And you also want to take a look into like what motivate students, like why are they in the classroom in the first place, like what what passions they have that are driving them to take these classes? Some things that I found when I was going to classes was that incentivizing, collaboration with small groups. Getting students to, from the very beginning, have a voice about who they are and why they are interested in taking this class. Being able to connect with other people, so they can find mutual people in the class they want to interact with. And then from there help them setup some kind of guiding rules that will allow them throughout the course to work with each other. Ohter things that I've noticed is that you know when professors allowed or instructors allowed opportunity for students to kind of play around and venture on their own a little bit, to really learn the material on their own. Really helps a lot for me at least because you're going to want to prescribe a lot of quizzes or homework assignments, and I think in many ways when I had classes that I didn't have to, every week submit like a homework assignment, but rather, take the time to really focus on the problem sets and quizzes and concepts that I felt that I really needed to study with. And then studied with my group, well, people from my study groups allowed me really to thrive. I think sometimes homework could be more, at times, it feels sometimes like you might be just doing more work than actually learning quality material that you feel like you really need to focus on. Homework, I felt, was something that you were supposed to practice on, but in the end it was something that you were graded for. So, like, a lot of times, it didn't really Incentivize people to just play around and just kind of explore a little bit. I mean, obviously, you can't expect somebody to know something the first time around. Like, what is it to do a linear regression or maybe how to add a whole bunch of variables together if you're learning algebra for the first time. Sometimes you just need to practice that and sometimes students are going to know what they should focus on. As long as you give them ideas of how to be self-sufficient learners. So, the last component I would make is that, if you really want to set up a good learning environment, it's not only just collaboration and incentives. But also, how to help students learn to be self-directed learners. Like what are the main ways that people learn, and what kind of incentives perform habit over time that students will want to develop so that they can always learn new concepts? So it sounds like, really, what we need to do is make sure we're leaving room for students to collaborate. We're leaving room for students to learn from failure. And we're leaving room for students to learn how to learn. And those are all things I think are very real to the way we learn in the real world. They don't often, or don't always make it into the classroom where we have a very artificial learning environment. But generally it's very important to look at how people learn naturally when they're not in the classroom environment. Their not given homework, or quizzes, or tests, or anything like that. But they're just out there learning from their experiences and trying to facilitate the same kind of learning in the classroom. Yeah. So thank you so much for chatting with me today and for your insights. Thank you David for inviting me. Yeah, absolutely. And thank y'all. Thanks. I'm here with Kathleen Mullaney, who's the Vice President of Careers here at Udacity. Kathleen, thank you so much for talking to us today. Thank you, David. So I want to talk to Kathleen about issues of gender in educational technology. So the first thing I'd ask is, there is a trend in educational technology, that because the technology industry is so dominated by men, the things we create in Ed Tech, are often very oriented towards men. So what can we do to kind of try and break that cycle? When I first started at Udacity back when we were creating the first courses, we realized that this was actually going to become quite prevalent. The first courses we launched were CS 101, which is into to computer programming in Python. The focus was how to build a search engine. And the second course was an A.I. course focused on how to program a robotic car. And those seem pretty agnostic. Now a car and a search engine are not gender based. But, there is a tendency to view those actually as more male oriented. Like cars in general are more focused on men. And we realize that, actually just choosing topics for the courses and the examples that we use in courses could have a great effect on whether or not men or women would be attracted to take the course to begin with. It's like one of the things that we really focused on was trying, after we saw those first courses and thought about how we want to market future courses, we actually took a more broadened perspective. And we tried to actually make things as agnostic as we possibly could, and had much more attention to it. So the first thing that I always tell people is that you didn't need to be aware of the stereotypes that exist for everybody. Including I have many stereotypes of men and women myself, even though I am very well educated on this topic. And so keeping those in mind, and keeping them at your forefront when you're designing any kind of materials it is crucially important, making sure that you're not playing into any standard gender archetypes. So another example from the History of Udacity is that we produce this course on Tales from the Genome. So it was about genetics. And we had a male and a female instructor, and the male was the expert, and the female was the novice. And they played this really nice dynamic on film, where the novice would ask the expert questions. There were times, though, in the filming, that we realized that we were essentially portraying the female as this dumb person who didn't know the answers to things. When really, she's very intelligent and has her own background. She's just not a geneticist. And that was what we were trying to portray there. We didn't want to say that one person is smarter than the other, but this person just doesn't have this expertise. And it was something that we didn't actually realize until pretty far into filming the course. And we went through and actually looked through every video and actually said, do we feel that this is portraying women in a negative light? Or playing into these easy archetypes that, films so often use, a woman in distress. She needs help. She needs to be saved by this knight in shining armor. And we ended up cutting a lot of content and changing it, because we realized we just don't want to be portraying women in that light. Another example just to, again, to give you an idea of how much this is very prevalent and how much we don't even realize it, is that there's a video in one of our job rescript courses that had a complaint from a student that said why are you playing into these gender roles? Haven't you heard of stereotype threat? If you haven't heard of stereotype threat, that's where basically reinforcing a stereotype in the context where a stereotype is typically threatened. I guess that's the name, is more likely to cause those issues than not, so, for example, women are told by society that they're not as good at math as men are. And if you ask the woman to state her gender before she takes a math test, she will do worse on that math test. And so, that's what stereotype is, as an example. And what we realized is that, we were naming variables in this JavaScript course. Completely what we thought was benign. But somebody saw that, you know, we named one of the variables gal. The variable it was supposed to be a hero so it was definitely portraying women in a positive light, but pointing out that there are women in a situation where they may already feel that they're not confident. May actually cause people to think of their abilities as less, which I don't necessarily agree in this scenario but just to point out the of the issues that may come up and how much you do need to be aware of them. So I would say like the basic thing that you can do is to educate yourself on on the dynamics that we know exist today. So talking about stereotypes and bias in particular. And not only with gender, though I don't if we're talking about diversity at large, but as with any underrepresented group. In computer science or in technology in general. Yeah. Do you know, and I assume your familiar with imposter syndrome in this context as well, can you comment on that in the same kind of- Yeah, it's very similar to stereotyping. They go hand in hand oftentimes. So imposter syndrome is that, and I feel this all the time. I'm a high-level executive at this company, and I still feel this. I have a PhD, and I feel the exact same way. Yeah. [LAUGH] It's like oh I don't have the answer to this yeah. It's basically you feel that you don't have the expertise that you need to fulfill a position or fulfill a job. And this is actually one of the things that I mentor girls, especially the girls who code groups that nobody knows what they're doing. Nobody, I mean it. Like I don't know any one person who actually knows what they're doing all the time. And it's fun to actually at least be in the start of environment because we try to raise that fact as much as we possibly really can. I don't know if Sebastian liked to mention his failure award. So if you try to break the company, and we've succeeded at various points. [LAUGH] Yes we have. He rewards you with a bottle of wine, a nice bottle of wine. And the whole point here is that it's said to highlight this fact, I think at least, to counter this imposter syndrome, that you're acting out of fear because you think that you can't do something. Because you're not smart enough or you don't have the right experience or the number of years of experience or the specific background. A number of people at Udacity work in computer science. They don't have computer science degrees. A number of our students in particular do not have computer science degrees but are looking to get into the technical field. One of the most frequent questions I receive is really focusing on how can I get a job here when they say a CS degree is required. I have to counsel people on they say this but that's really just this shortcut that people use to say people just want a certain level of understanding of these topics or a certain level of work experience. And time after time I talk to employers and actually tried to assist this out. And they say, no, we don't actually want assist really, we just really want to know like do you know this stuff. And so that's what we focus on Udacity its like know the stuff, and do it in a way that is more flexible and it meet your needs rather than having to go back and get a second degree often times. Yeah. That was a very long answer to that question. [LAUGH] That's all right. I ask on imposter syndrome because we've done some interesting research on imposter syndrome in the OMS. And it's interesting that the research came out that suggested that people who experience imposter syndrome more strongly are less likely to take a chance on an experimental program like this. Yes, exactly. Because if it doesn't end up panning out, it reflects poorly on me. And I'm already an imposter, so now people recognize that. Yeah, yeah. And so, I think combating that in this program is really, really important because it helps increase our diversity. Because the people who more often experience that are the ones we really want in this program anyway. Yeah, have you talked about growth or fixed mindsets in that context? We've talked about it a little bit in one of the other lessons on motivation and meta cognition. So yeah. Yeah, one of the best ways to counteract an imposter syndrome is to have a growth mindset intervention to highlight that, you know making mistakes helps you learn. It doesn't actually show that you're stupid or that you don't have the ability to do something. Yeah. In fact, no one ever learns really anything except for by failure. Yeah exactly. So Kathleen will agree with me that mindset is the one book that everyone should read I assume. Yep. Yep. [LAUGH] And so we talk a lot about doing this in Ed Tech and how to design educational technology initiatives that do this. But many of our students probably won't go into this field, but they'll go into fields that suffer from these same issues. Yep, totally. So just when they're on the job in the future, what can they do to try and improve diversity in their workplace, without being kind of pandering, or some of the things we more often see? Sure, yeah, I guess the first thing is that if you are not an underrepresented group that doesn't mean you can't participate in trying to actually alleviate the issues that these groups encounter. If you are a white male, sorry Dave. It's okay. The things you can do are educate yourself and help promote these issues to other people. I noticed actually when I first brought up the issue of bias and stereotype with the company here, one of the things that came up, is you're like, I am a white man, I feel like I can't participate, because I'm the enemy. No, you're not the enemy, that's actually not what we're trying to say here. A stereotype is a shortcut in your cognitive process. It's something that you see something over and over and over again, and your brain just makes a shortcut. And it helps you think about things. It actually helps you in your life quite a bit. We're not saying that all stereotypes are bad. You just need to understand the ones that are, and the ones that result in poor judgment or behavior. And a bias also is the shortcut, but it's also an error. So if you talk about like in research. A bias is actually just an error in measurement. And so what we want to do is actually just again, the awareness of these things helps cut down the effects of them. I don't know the exact statistic right now, but a pretty big amount. And so educate yourself on the issues that face people in these groups. So for the technology industry, it's something about 20 to 30% female on a good day and if that's the case, then what are the things you can do to actually get, to be more equal. And actually, probably educating yourself on why that's even important. The point isn't just to have equality, the point is to have diversity of thought. And you're not going to have diversity of thought if everybody looks the same, has had the same education, comes from the same type of family and from the same like economic background. So businesses, it's actually shown you know through research again that businesses that have diverse employees are more successful than ones that are not. So understanding like why you actually want this and the more logical reasons rather than the emotional ones are just like I don't want there to be inequality. And actually try to move the needle based on logic rather than emotional responses to the situation. Have you read Thinking Fast and Slow? Yeah it's a good book. If you all haven't heard of it, it's a great book. I wouldn't have even connected it to this, but I'm glad you mentioned about shortcuts. It talks a lot about how stereotypes are just kind of easy ways to think that we fall into because we can't think deeply about every single thing we encounter all day long. Yeah, exactly. But being aware of them is really the quickest way to know when you're doing it badly. And not feeling like you're doing something wrong. Yeah. I noticed another example. Hopefully theses are helpful for you guys. One of the stereotypes, and again the biases, that comes in to play is that women are more often judged by their character, so by how likable they are, and men are more often judged by their skills. Which is really ridiculous, especially when it comes into interviewing. And so it's something that I work on very, very much with our Udacity students in helping them apply for jobs. For the most part people are not interviewing you for how likable you are. They're interviewing you because they want you to perform a specific function in a company. And it's important for if you're an interviewer to remember that and also as an interviewee because you want to make sure that you're not giving any easy paths for an interviewer to fall into and basically say, oh, I'm going to choose the shortcut. And so the things that you can actually do are to enforce that you have the skills for a job, in your rhetoric in your answers to interview questions. Highlight that you have the skills. Don't just smile a lot and be likeable. That's also an important trait. I'm not saying that that's not important at all, but you can make it easier for yourself and for the people who can easily be tracked by stereotypes to come out on top. I know that when I was interviewing for a candidate I was writing all of my feedback about this interview that I had just completed and I was saying how she had a really sunny disposition and I was like, what am I talking about? That has nothing to do with this job and for me, once I realized that, that's when I decided actually to start doing these talks here at Udacity because if I, this is one of my favorite topics. If I'm so susceptible to this despite the amount that I read about it, that I do my research, that I try to help others and I'm still falling into these traps. We need to make it as prevalent so that I have support. So I get a team of people to help me actually do better myself. It's kind of like if you're trying to lose weight. You're much more likely to succeed if you have some social pressure to help you with achieving your goal. Yeah absolutely. So if you wife was to say, David you're trying to lose weight, so let's make sure we're not keeping cookies in the house, or whatever. You're going to have more support. And so- Yeah exactly. Accountability. Exactly. So this accountability is important if we're able to help each other learn about these things and be active, rather than passive about the efforts to improve them. Personally, I think that's what would lead to more success. Yeah, absolutely, I agree completely. Do you have any last thoughts you want to share with our students, as they prepare to embark on their projects, or maybe wrap up their projects? Yeah, I guess one of the things that I wish I had understood a little sooner, was really think about, if you're designing a course or a product, think about your learner or your user. And really understand who that person is, or who that group of people are. And do your best to limit it, because making a product for everybody will never win. And really try to reach that person. I mean I think once we were able to actually figure out some of the individuals that we were reaching with the Udacity courses. We got a lot better about creating content that fit their needs. I think really just focus on your user, and make sure that you know who that person is, so that you are solving a problem for them, or you're helping them achieve whatever goal that they're trying to achieve. Make sense. Yeah. Well great. Thank you so much for talking to us today, Kathleen. Thanks for having me. Good luck with your projects. [SOUND] [LAUGH] One track you might want to take in this course is a track on research. Research is contributing to human's broader understanding of some phenomenon. Or in this class, contributing to our understanding of education and learning. For example, you might want to investigate how a particular tool changes the learning process. Or maybe you want to investigate how different demographics or backgrounds change a person's perceptions of an online program like this one. But research is very much it's own language, it's own community and in order to participate in research, there's a lot you need to understand. This is going to be a kind of a crash course in everything you need to do research, at least at the level we're looking at. We'll talk about some of the vocabulary of research. We'll talk about validity and reliability and some of the things you need to be aware of during research. And especially, we'll talk about different research designs. How to set up an experiment or set up some research that will actually answer the questions that you want to answer. A controlled experience is kind of the Holy Grail of scientific research. In human subjects research, a controlled experiment is where we get some participants, randomly assign them to certain conditions and then treat each condition in a different way. What we do to each condition is called a treatment and then each group of participants is called a condition. Typically we have a control condition and an experimental condition where the experimental condition is where we're trying out something that we're interested in. Controlled experiments give really, really nice generalizable and clean results, but they're also very difficult to do in education. Usually in education, we're working in real classrooms, where we don't have the power to randomly assign people. And usually we'll want to do things that last several weeks or several months. And it's difficult to control for everything when we're doing controlled experiments. But if you're interested in doing a controlled experiment, in this lesson we'll talk about the different things that you need to be aware of, different tools that are available to you, and different things you need to make sure to control for. Oftentimes in research, we're interested in making a change in the world and then measuring the effect that that change had. For example, we might want to give students a tool that we believe will help them learn, and then measure how well that tool actually helped them learn. But sometimes we're not ready to actually make a change in the world yet. Sometimes we just want to understand the world a little bit better. We just want to understand the nature of reality, and that can then inform some tools we design later on. Survey research is one way of doing this. In survey research we're not actually making a change to our participants. We're just asking them to report on their opinions, their perspectives, their experiences. And using the results of those surveys, we then construct an understanding of whatever population we're investigating. Survey research can be very complicated though. It's very difficult to design a good survey. It's difficult to know how to draw a representative sample out of a population of people. You might not even know what those words mean yet. So in this lesson we're going to talk about these things. We'll talk about designing good surveys, and making sure that the results you get from those surveys are actually valid and generalizable to that population. Qualitative research can be a little bit difficult to pin down. It's really exploration of unstructured and naturalistic data. For example, if you are trying to develop a tool that will improve learning, you might interview some students that you hope will use your tool to understand what they struggle with and what they like. Or you might choose to observe a classroom just in its natural environment, taking notes on its various dynamics that you see at play. The downside of qualitative research is that its often not as generalizable. It might be transferable to new environments, but it doesn't generalize out to some objective truce the way we can sometimes get with quantitative data. With education we often have to use qualitative research because there are so many things going on in the classrooms, so many things going on in the learning process. That boiling down to a couple of clean numbers just loses the real magic of what's going on. So qualitative research is something we use very often in educational research because it helps us capture the real range of all the different interacting parts of the learning process. So here we'll talk about the different kinds of qualitative research. We'll talk about case studies and interviews. We'll talk about how to do them and how to make sure that the conclusions that you get out of these kinds of research are still valid and sound and useful. Quantitive research is effectively research with numbers. Those numbers could be test grades. They could be scores on some attitude inventory. They could really be any kind of objective measure of reality. The really nice thing about quantitive research is it gives us a toolbox of analyses we can use with our data to understand the conclusions of it. We could, for example, compare the means of two different groups to see if one outperformed another on some task. We could analyze how a group of students performed after getting some intervention from us to see if some measure of their performance improved. So the nice thing about quantitative research is it has a suite of tools we can use to create easy-to-understand, easy-to-defend conclusions about our research. Now two places we get a lot of quantitative data for quantitative research are controlled experiments and survey results. But those aren't the only two places. So here we'll talk about the different places we can get quantitative data for this kind of research and some of the different analyses we can use to process this research. Research in education differs from research in other areas in a number of ways, so I'm going to talk about two of them here. One of those ways is the difficulty we have controlling all the variables at play in educational research. We have interactions amongst students, amongst students and teachers, amongst the classroom, amongst the broader school culture, and we can't control for all of those things. So one of our difficulties is in understanding the full range of different variables and dynamics at play. Another interesting thing in educational research is that very often we're not just interested in understanding learning or understanding education. I think most of us get into this field because we want to improve it. That we want to help students learn better. And so when you're sitting in a classroom observing something and you recognize a reason why a student's having trouble learning some material, it's very difficult not to intervene and help them because that's why we're doing this. And yet, if our main goal is to understand learning, then we can't do that. So for these reasons among others, a field exists especially in educational research, although it exists elsewhere as well, called design-based research. Design-based research is the idea of creating something, and then using that something, that tool, that protocol, that behavior, as a probe into classroom interaction, or the learning process. What we do here is effectively build a tool that would work, if our theory of learning is accurate. For example, if we're interested in individualized feedback. If we believe that students learn better from individualized feedback, we would create a tool that uses individualized feedback, or gives students individualized feedback. And then based on whether or not that tool actually improves learning, we would reflect back on our original theory. If the tool gives students individualized feedback and they don't improve in their understanding of some material, then we might reflect and say that theory that I used to justify that tool was actually false. I don't have any evidence to defend the idea that that's useful. But then if that tool actually does work, we would say, because I developed a tool that improved individualized feedback and because students learned as a result, my theory about individualized feedback helping learning must be accurate. So in designed-based research, we're designing tools, then using those tools as probes into the phenomenon that those tools are designed to address. Here we're going to talk about constructionism. Constructionism is a learning theory and probably the most influential learning theory of the past century. If you've taken a psychology class, you're probably familiar with constructivism, the brain child of Jean Piaget, that describes how people learn about the world around them. Constructionism is a learning theory from Seymour Papert, that takes those ideas of constructivism and applies them to how we should actually develop curricula or develop activities to best facilitate student learning. Constructionism is really about putting the learner in the center of learning activity, and having them actually construct an understanding of whatever concept we're trying to teach them. It suggests that we can't just pour our knowledge into a learner's head, but really they have to build their understanding of whatever we're communicating to them. Now constructionism is kind of the umbrella over a lot of different pedagogics that we'll talk about in this class. It's the umbrella over project based learning, problem based learning, learning by design, learning by example, learning by doing. All of these things put the student in the center of the learning process and have them construct their understanding of a concept through some authentic experience. So constructionism is really about facilitating that active learning process, putting the learner in the center and having them experience the concept in an authentic way and construct their understanding of it. Here we're talking about project based learning. And if you're in this class, you're already familiar with project-based learning, because this entire class is project-based learning. We built it on that foundation. Project-based learning is a pedagogical technique where students learn through big long-term projects. Sometimes somewhat open-ended, as opposed to through small written assignments or quizzes or tests. There are a lot of real benefits to project-based learning and one of my favorites is the idea of authenticity. Typically, when we go into the actual fields that we're teaching about, what were our work is, is actually pretty project-based. We do big long-term projects, rather than small tasks each day. And so by teaching students using project-based learning, we're not only teaching them the content we want them to know. But we're also teaching them what it's like to actually be a part of that field. And similarly, personalization is a really big benefit of this as well. Typically, when students do a project, they actually feel some personal connection to what they've produced. And some of the projects we've done are other OMS classes we've seen students really develop the projects and pursue them after the semester is over. Some of them have gone so far as to name their projects or give them personalities. There's really a personal connection between the student and the project that they develop. The longer term and more open-ended nature of the project also means that we can do some things to facilitate real learning. And the more important learning strategies that we want students to develop. Things like planning what they're going to do, monitoring how it's going and adjusting it accordingly if it's not going very well. Oftentimes in traditional education, by the time a student recognizes that what they're doing isn't working. It might be too late to fix it, if it's a test or a quiz or something. But with projects, the longer term nature of them gives students time to recognize what I've been working on isn't really working. How can I evaluate it? How can I recover? So there are a lot of benefits of project-based learning. The difficulty is that they aren't always easy to implement in a regular classroom. Projects are bigger and they're open-ended and they're very personal to students. And that makes it very difficult to give students feedback on them, it makes it difficult to grade projects. How do you grade two students that did very, very different projects if it's a very open-ended project? Presents a lot of difficulty, but that's where technology can really play a role. Technology gives us an environment in which we can allow students to produce some open-ended projects. And have built in functionalities to develop their ideas and construct whatever they want to construct. And through some artificial intelligence, we can actually start to build in some of that feedback directly into the environment. We can give them feedback right in the context of what they're doing without requiring a teacher to be consistently monitoring what they're doing. So technology can really bring project-based learning to life. And so we'll talk about the different ways in which project-based learning can be done and how technology can help. This section is on problem based learning. Problem based learning is a constructionist learning strategy, where the learning process is really motivated by some central organizing problem. Now, when we say problem here, we're not really talking about something small like a little math problem. We're talking about something a little bit bigger and a little bit open ended. So in ecology, we might have the problem of figuring out why a certain species went extinct or in medicine you may have the problem of given some symptoms and given some family history, let's diagnose this patient. So there are these central motivating problems behind the learning process. The power of problem based learning is that it really teaches students at two different levels. On the one hand, it teaches them the content knowledge that they need to know. To diagnose that disease, you would need to know a list of diseases and you would need to know which symptoms correspond to which diseases. So there's content knowledge at play, but problem based learning doesn't just teach the content knowledge. It also teaches that content knowledge in the context of how it actually would be used in the real world. So in the ecology example, it's one thing to know the biological principles and the genetics and things like that that go into that organism. But its something else to understand the overall idea of constructing an explanation of what happened in that system, evaluating that explanation against evidence, and revising it accordingly. So the power of problem based learning is it not only teaches students content knowledge, but it teaches them content knowledge in the context of how it would be used out in the real world. And this is very motivating for students as well, they get to see that if I went into a career in this, this is actually what I would be doing. This isn't just some material that's been whitewashed to use in a classroom environment. This is actually what people do in the real world when they work in these fields. So it's a great way of motivating learning and it's also a great way of teaching. Communities to practice are unique learning and doing environments. They were detailed in great book from 1991 called, Legitimate Peripheral Participation. And it basically suggests that novices and experts work together in certain environments. And the novices actually learn from the experts while the experts are doing some task. And over time, the novices take a little bit of responsibility and then a little bit more. And learn how to contribute to that environment while also contributing to that environment. So for an example that's used in that book is the example of midwives. So when a midwife is first being trained in certain areas, the first thing she goes through is just being in the room during childbirth. She experiences the different things that the experienced midwives are saying and doing and just kind of gets a feel for it. And then over time, she takes on a couple responsibilities, and a couple more, and learns, and learns a little bit more each day. And eventually is an expert herself, and can start training her own novices. It's a very apprenticeship driven approach. And that book they suggested, this is really one of the best ways to learn. because your learning right in the authentic context, where you'll ultimately contribute to what you learned. But it presents a lot of difficulties for classroom learning, because classrooms are completely absent of this. You very rarely have classrooms where you really are doing what you are learning to do. You're learning in place to the idea of being that you're going to go out into the world and then do it in a job or do it in a career. But in the classroom you're not actually contributing, but this learning theory suggests that that's the opposite of a great way to learn. So the question is, can we create these kind of environments where this is simulated, where students are experiencing what it would be like to contribute a little more over time to this enterprise that they're trying to learn. Technology may be able to help us with this, because with technology we can create these kinds of similations. We can simulate, whatever career the students are going to go into and simulate giving them some of these responsibilities while AI agents or the simulation itself takes care of the rest. So we'll talk about the value of this educational approach, as well as how we can use technology to really bring it to life. Social learning is a learning theory that puts very explicit emphasis on the interaction and collaboration among people during the learning process. It was derived from Albert Bandura's work and just like Jean Piaget suggested, that authentic experiences are really important for developing a real understanding, or constructing a real understanding of some topic, Bandura suggested that part of that authenticity is the authentic social interactions that happen during learning. That we learn together and we develop our concepts of different material together. And it's really important to preserve that in any learning environment, but this presents a real problem for online learning. Because in online learning, we lose the most accessible device for facilitating this kind of social learning. And that's the physical classroom. In a physical classroom we can actually talk to one another, interact face to face. Online we don't have that as much. So how do we develop that for the online environment? So this really brings up two questions. First of all, how does the loss of that physical environment, that physical classroom impact online learning? How does it change what students learn? Does it actually hurt us? And secondly, how do we develop devices, develop technologies, that can actually resolve this issue. Assuming that it does damage the learning if we don't have access to this kind of interpersonal collaboration and interaction? Can we develop devices that actually help alleviate that, that facilitate that interaction online? Now I'm obviously very biased, because I work on this program and I love this program. I think that with technology, not only can we develop ways to overcome this difficulty. Honestly, I think in the online environment, we can develop technologies that make it even better. One of my favorite experiences in this program has been that, I can logon to the class forum and interact with ten students in five minutes. And then come back an hour later and do it again. And that's a level of interaction, a level of collaboration that I could never have in a physical classroom. And so, I really think that with the right effort and the right designs, we can create and leverage social learning in a way online, that actually goes beyond what we can do in person. Here, we're going to talk about metacognition. Metacognition is thinking about thinking, or knowing what you know. It's really any thought process, where the target of the thought process, is actually inside you're own brain. So it might be thinking about what you're thinking about, or knowing what knowledge that you have. Now, a key type of metacognition, in learning, is called self-regulated learning.-Self regulated learning is the process by which a person plans out how they're going to learn something, monitors how learning is going, evaluates it, and then adjusts it accordingly. Self-regulated learning is really the goal that we want students to reach. We want them to become self-regulated learners because it's more about active learning rather than passive learning. It's about driving your own learning process as opposed to being a passive consumer of whatever information is presented to you. Now a key part of self-regulated learning is the mindset that one has towards learning. There are a lot of people out there that think they have a fixed amount of intelligence, that they are as smart as they'll ever be, and if they can't do something it's just because they aren't smart enough. That's not really an accurate way of framing intelligence. Intelligence is much more something that we can work at, we can grow through. Through effort and intensive study we can actually get smarter, effectively. Now I think everybody has that one book that they recommend that everybody read and mine is actually on this topic. Carol Dweck is a Stanford psychologist who spent decades working on motivation and learning, especially at the lower, middle and high school levels. And what she found was that ability does not necessarily predict success at the next level. But the mindset that one has towards learning and towards intelligence is really the chief predictor at whether or not someone will be successful at the next level. She found that those people who recognized that failure is just an opportunity to learn, as opposed to a referendum on one's own intelligence, are really the ones who succeed at the next level. So I highly recommend picking up this book, especially for both designing educational technology and for self-improvement. So in this lesson what we're going to talk about is really how to use technology to facilitate metacognitive development. We'll talk about how technology can give a kind of open-ended and self-driven opportunities to students that would be difficult in a regular classroom. Typically classrooms are driven by a lesson and a lecture and it can be difficult to give students the opportunity to drive what they're learning In time. But through technology, we can build more open-ended environments in which the learner is put into the driver's seat. And they get to control what they learn and when, and how, and learn at that process of monitoring it and planning it, and evaluating it. So we'll talk about how technology can really facilitate meta-cognative development When you think of assessments in education, you probably think of what we call summative assessments. These are things like tests and quizzes that occur at the end of some learning process, to see whether or not you learned the material by some deadline. And you take the assessment, you find out if you passed or failed, and you move forward either way. But wouldn't it be great to find out while you're learning if you're learning the material well enough? That's where formative assessment comes in. Formative assessment is assessment while you're learning some new material. And it's really powerful, because it more authentically mimics the way we learn in the real world. When you're learning to walk or talk, what you're really doing is trying lots of things every single minute and getting immediate feedback on whether or not you did it correctly. That's formative assessment. It's assessment while you're trying to learn something. So formative assessment is very powerful, and I would say it's universally a good idea. The difficulty is it's very difficult to do in a regular classroom. When you have one teacher and 20 or 30 students, how do you have that one teacher give all those students individual feedback on what they're doing wrong all at the same time? It just can't be done. And a college classroom is even more difficult. You have one professor and 200 or 300 students. How can they give 200 students feedback all at the same time? It's just not possible. That's why we talk about this in an educational technology class. Educational technology can help us with that. Educational technology can develop tools to give students individual feedback on what they're doing while they're doing it. We can use artificial intelligence to give every single student some individualized feedback on what they did wrong on that latest iteration all at the same time, even if everyone is doing something different. So that's why we talk about it in this class. So in this lesson, we'll talk about what formative assessment is, why it's powerful, and how we can develop educational technologies that help facilitate it. Learning management systems are tools or collections of tools that are meant to help teachers and educators with the administration of their classrooms. They take a lot of things that traditionally we may have done in person or done by hand and put them online or put them on a computer in order to make things easier or to help with distrivuted classrooms like the one's here in the LMS program. They might have things like a grade book or a facility for collecting assignments or a workflow for grading assignments. By now, you're very familiar with one particular learning management system, which is T-Square. You've seen T-Square's assignment system, its announcement system, its resources system, its testing quizzes system, maybe. Those are all different tools that are collected together under one management system in order to try and deliver a cohesive classroom environment. Even though we use a lot of tools here, the ultimate goal of learning management systems is to put a lot of things together. Of course, one difficulty with learning management systems is it's easy to approach them from a purely system perspective. It's easy to look at them as software solutions to a software problem. But that actually can be a little bit dangerous. To design good learning management systems, we need to have some understanding of the learning process as well. We need to have some understanding of the pedagogy behind learning management systems. We need to have some understanding of the learning behaviors in which students will engage while they're using our systems. So that's what we'll talk a lot about here. Not only what a learning management system needs to be able to do, but how to design it in such a way that it actually helps the learning process. Here we're going to talk about one of my favorite topics in this class, Intelligent Tutoring Systems. The idea of Intelligent Tutoring Systems is that we know students learn best when they have individualized, just in time feedback, right there in the context of the learning process. They learn best when they have someone sitting with them saying, hey, you just made a mistake on that kind of problem. Here's how to avoid that mistake for next time. Or, great job on that problem. You didn't make the mistake now that you made previously. The idea here is that, it's not that we don't want to give all the students this kind of feedback. We definitely do, but we really have difficulty doing so at scale. We can't give every single student a one on one tutor to have during their entire educational career. But with software we might be able to come close. Intelligent tutoring systems is about creating software agents, that can provide that same kind of just in time individualized feedback to students while they're learning. And because they're software agents, they're available all the time, they don't have an hourly cost associated with them. They get past a lot of the obstacles to having one-on-one tutoring during your entire educational career. So in this lesson we'll talk about intelligent tutoring systems and some of the places they've been most effective. We'll especially talk about how they exist in two different general areas. Well-formed problem domains that have a well-structured problem and a correct answer. And more poorly from problem domains where the things to learn are a little bit more fuzzy, and a little bit more difficult to observe. Based on the fact that you're all in this class, I'm reasonably sure you're all familiar with online learning, because you're all doing it right now. When most people think about online learning, I think what they think about though, are MOOCs, massive open online courses. MOOCs got very big for a few years there, and they're still very big. And so we're actually going to have an entire separate section on MOOCs. But online learning is more than just MOOCs nowadays. You're all doing online learning, but you're not in the MOOC. This class is not massive, it's large, but it's not massive, and it's not open. You all applied to this program and you were accepted, so it's neither massive nor open. But it's still an online course. What we do here at Udacity nowadays is similar. We no longer do massive open online courses. We do smaller, very large, but still smaller than massive open online courses, programs that are somewhat more gated, that have a cost associated with them and have a credential at the end. And I think programs like Udacity's Nano degrees and the Georgia Tech OMS CS program are really the future of online learning, these more closed and more gated experiences. So what we're going to talk about here, is the different ways that online learning can be done separate from MOOCs. So what are the experiences we can have in online learning that would be difficult or impossible to have on campus? Are there things we can do here that are actually even better than we can do on campus? And there's certain things we can do in person that we can't do online, but how do we make up for them? How do we create an equivalent experience in this online environment to what you might get on campus? Many of you are probably already familiar with the idea of MOOCs. MOOCs stand for Massive Open Online Course. MOOCs are courses that are delivered to the masses without scaling up our teaching resources to match the number of students who register. Doesn't matter if 100 students register or 100,000. We still have the same initial resource allocation for that course. A lot of companies nowadays are producing MOOCs. Coursera is producing MOOCs. edX is producing MOOCs. Udacity actually got started producing MOOCs, although has since has pivoted away on a more credentialed approach. There are a lot of interesting constraints that we wrestle with when producing MOOCs. For one thing, many of them are available for free. And when it's available for free, we need to minimize our initial resource investment. So that means we really need to be very clever about how we design our MOOCs. We need to be clever about how we design our video material, so that we're not expending a whole lot of money to produce really excellent lectures or anything like that. We need to be clever about how we design our assessments. Assessments in MOOCs can often be kind of trivial, if they're just based on some little multiple choice questions. How do we design good assessments that don't require us to hire an army of TAs, or an army of graders to evaluate all those assessments? These are all very interesting issues that we face when developing good, massive open online courses. And then really what we're going to focus on in this lesson. How do we develop good video material, good assessments, good grading, good things like that without investing just a lot of money into reaching all these students? Chances are you probably have a Facebook account. You might have a Twitter account. You might have a LinkedIn. You probably have several accounts spread across several different social networking sites and you use them for a lot of different purposes. You might use one to keep up with family and friends. You might use one for job networking or when to find new media to consume. More and more people are actually using social networking in education as well. There are teachers in middle and high school that are using Facebook in their classroom or using Facebook to extend their classroom. They figure, if my students are on Facebook every evening anyway, why don't I give them assignment notifications there? Why would I host my discussions on there? Why don't I meet my students where they are and try and bring the educational experience to them, as opposed to convincing them to come get it from me. But there are others that suggest that this isn't the best approach. That by trying to integrate education with something like Facebook, we're watering down education, or we're trying too hard to make education artificially cool and really, we're losing some of the real value in education. So these are some of the issues that we're going to wrestle with in this lesson. We're going to talk about whether or not education and social networking should actually be integrating this way. Should we try and use Facebook for education? Should we try and use Twitter for education? Or can we actually build new tools or build new communities that blur the line between social networking and education, while also preserving some of that sanctity or some of that rigor to that educational environment. Things like EdModo that are custom built for education but also have a lot of social networking type features in them. So, we'll talk about these different tools and these different questions that are available in the community during this lesson. One of the criticisms that some people have of online education is they suggest that the kind of collaboration we can have in person is difficult to do online. If you're taking an online class, the teacher can say, hey, get into groups and discuss this topic or complete this activity, and you move your desks around and you move around in a lecture hall, you sit face-to-face with one another, you do something, and then you break and go back to the regular class. And some people point out that it's difficult to do that online. And even more so, things like group projects that are very valuable in traditional education can also be difficult to do when you can't meet in person. You can't gather around a table and chat about ideas or scribble on paper and share it with one another. So how can we develop technology that lets people actually collaborate on projects or learning at a distance? There's a field that tries to address this called computer-supported collaborative work. It tries to develop tools that allow people to collaborate, even when they're not colocated in the same room. But it's actually not just about online learning either. It's not just focused on developing tools that allow people to collaborate when they're not colocated. It also tries to develop tools that make collaboration easier in general. A very simple example that can be considered something of an instance of computer-supported collaborative work is Google Docs. That's a document interface that lets multiple people edit the same document at the same time. If you've done anything before Google Docs came along, you probably remember the days when you had to pass the document around amongst people and tell who was doing the edits at a given time and control for versions and do a lot of headachy things like that. But with Google Docs, we can all log in to the same document at the same time, collaborate on it, and move on. So computer-supported collaborative work is not just about learning together, not just about collaborating on learning activities. It's also about collaborating via computers in general. But in this class, we're going to really talk about how we can use technology to enable collaboration in the context of education. One kind of educational technology that people are probably very familiar with is educational games, or game based learning. These are games that are developed not just to be fun and engaging but also to teach some material. I grew up on educational games. I remember things like Super Solvers to Operation Neptune. And they're still some of my favorite games. And the real power of those games is that the learning in those games is very authentic. They find a way to take the material they want you to learn, and make a game out of that material. And that's where educational games can really have a lot of power, is when they make the real material itself come to life. But there can also be a dark side of game-based learning. If what we make into the game is not authentic to the material, if we just kind of staple on things like achievements and badges onto a learning activity. We risk creating very inauthentic motivation around that learning activity. So when we talk about game based learning we're really going to focus on how we can make the authentic parts of the material come out in an engaging and fun way. As opposed to stapling on gaming conventions just to make the activity more fun, but ultimately not make the fun authentic to the material. There are a lot of subjects that students learn about from kindergarten all the way through college, that we could teach in some really interesting ways. So for example, let's imagine you doing a unit on the Amazonian rainforest in biology class. One way you could teach that material is by piling all your students on to an airplane. Flying them down to the Amazonian rainforest and letting them actually learn about it by catching animals, dissecting them, watching them in their natural habitat, learning about them that way. It would be really interesting and really authentic, and really engaging, and completely unfeasible. We can't load student onto airplanes like that and fly them down to a dangerous area just to learn about how the rainforest works. But what we can do is bring them that experience to their computers through something like Amazon Trail, which is a game or a simulation you all might be familiar with. So what we can do is we can use computers to construct simulations of the kinds of environments or experiences we want students to have and let them engage with it that way. This can be powerful in another on a number of different ways. It's very authentic. It lets them see not only the content we want them to learn but also potentially how people researching that content actually work in their day to day life. Lets them see what is it like to actually research biology down in the Amazon? Or what is it like to capture marine animals and investigate them as a marine biologist? It's also powerful because it can be very empowering to let students explore things on their own. They kind of get to drive their own learning and drive their investigation which aligns very nicely with some other things we've talked about so far in this class. So, simulation-based learning is a great way to bring authentic and engaging learning experiences to students through the power of their computers. So, in this morsel, we're going to talk about how we can build simulations that are engaging and authentic for the material we want to teach the students. The proliferation of mobile devices has revolutionized a number of industries, and education is no different. One of the real big strengths in mobile devices is their ubiquity. Most of our students already have these kinds of mobile devices in their pocket right now, with them at all times. And that gives us a real opportunity to create some really interesting learning activities. So, for example, if a student's at a national park or a Civil War battlefield, they can have their mobile device guide them around the battlefield telling them different things that happened at different times, complete with animation and voice-overs. So there's real opportunities to create some really interesting learning experiences. As a new father, I'm very grateful for the use of this technology in this way, because my daughter gets a phone call from Elmo every day, and it just makes her face light up whenever it happens. So I'm very appreciative of the possibility to use educational technology in cahoots with mobile devices. But there are other things to mobile devices as well. There are different features that they have. They're different than anything we've dealt with in the past. They have a GPS. They have a camera. They have motion sensors. And all of these things can be used to create some really interesting educational experiences and different domains. So what we're going to talk about in this class is a lot about how the ubiquity of mobile devices can be leveraged to create unique experiences, but also about how some of those other features can be used in other context as well. In the other lessons of this course, we've talked about some of the pedagogical strategies. Some of the research methodologies. Some of the existing tools and some of the broader issues in educational technology. With this knowledge, you're now equipped with the information you need to start to solve some problems or investigate some phenomena. In case you're curious what you should look into, though, we're going to spend this lesson talking about some of the open issues in the educational technology community. We'll talk about some of the problems that still exist, that haven't been solved by technology yet. And we'll talk about some of the phenomena that have been introduced or emphasized by technology. You really could use some investigation, could use some better understanding. Hi and welcome to educational technology. My name is David Joyner and I'm thrilled to bring you this course. When we started this program back in 2014, I would have wondered if a course like this was actually possible. Most of our online courses are built around their lectures. And while conversations and discussions do happen, they usually aren't foundational to the course. But when this course is taught on campus, there are no lectures. It's all discussions, conversations, activities, project presentations. There's nothing really that we can pre-prepare, and so I would have wondered if a course like this would translate to the online environment. And, in fact, that was one of the main criticisms that some people had of this program. People said that you can't have a real Master's program without a lot of interaction between teachers and students, but you can't have that interaction online. And so they wondered if you could actually have an effective online Master's program. But then we started to actually deliver our courses and we found something interesting. Not only could we have discussions online that were as good as we have in person, but oftentimes they were actually better. The structure of the online interface gave students a lot of power to propose and guide their own discussions, and students responded to that ownership by really making the classes better. So it's really because of you all that this class is here. You all showed us that we could have a class like this in an online program. In this class, we're going to try and push that envelope even further. We're going to try and build an entire class around those kinds of interactions and conversations and discussions without any pre-prepared lecture material. We're going to build the entire class around a project to really try and build something that's a useful contribution to the educational technology field. We're looking forward to seeing what you come up with. And we're really excited to get started. Before we get started, let's talk about how to evaluate whether or not you're ready to take this class. To take this class, you should answer yes to all of the following questions. First, have you already fulfilled your foundational requirement for the program? That's going to give you experience receiving educational technology, which should really be all the preparation you need for the content of this course. Second, are you comfortable with writing? This course is going to involve several short and a couple long essays, so to succeed you need to be comfortable writing essays. Third, are you comfortable with a course that's going to evaluate participation as a first class object in the grading? Because this course is built on the discussions and conversations, we're going to explicitly evaluate whether or not you participated in the course. Fourth, are you comfortable with taking on a big, open-ended group project as part of your work for this class? Or alternatively, are you comfortable with taking on a big project all on your own? Because the goal of this class is to produce something that's had an actual contribution to the educational technology community, the scope of the project will be very large. So you need to be comfortable with that kind of project for this course. Fifth, are you passionate about education and educational technology? Do you already have some ideas for the kinds of tools you might want to build or research you want to conduct? Because this class is built around the project, and because you'll specify your own project, it's really important that you be invested in what you're working on. And lastly, are you comfortable with a class that's really built on these big, open-ended, student-driven projects? In this class, you're going to propose your own project, execute it and deliver it at the end of the semester. The requirements will be very fuzzy, the grading will be very informal, and there's not really a schedule of what you need to do or watch or read and when. And that kind of structure can be very frustrating for some students. Now before we move on, let's also talk about the things that aren't required. You'll notice that I didn't ask any questions about programming ability. And in fact, you can take this class and you can complete this class without writing a single line of code by doing research or user testing or design. And note that I also didn't ask if you have experience with educational technology. This class is built so that the only real experience you need is the experience you've already gotten in the LMS program. So you don't really need either of those things to succeed, but you do need to answer yes to the previous questions. If you're still here, I'll assume that means that you've decided that you are ready to take this course. And in which case I'll say again, welcome to educational technology. I'm really glad to have you here. But before we get started with this course, there's something that's very important to understand. This is a course about educational technology, but it's also very much an experiment in educational technology. I know of other courses online that have a lot of discussions or are built around projects. But I don't know of any that go quite as far as we're going to go. This is really an experiment to see what educational technology can do. We're going to try some things in this course that will fail miserably. We're also going to try some things that will work out really well and that we should implement in other courses going forward. Part of your role as a student in this course is to give us feedback on that. What's working? What's not? What should we fix and what should we carry on into other courses? That's part of your participation in this class. The learning goals of this class are to learn about what educational technology can do. And so you need to give us feedback on what educational technology is doing. So what are the learning goals of this class? When we discuss our classes, learning goals are the things that we want you to know by the end of the class. In this class, the learning goal is really just that you would know enough information to contribute to the field of educational technology. But of course, no one can know everything and no one can contribute in every possible way. So what you actually need to know will be dependent on what you want to do in this class. You might want to design educational technology. In which case you really need to know the current tools out there to address the problem you're interested in addressing. As well as techniques for designing sound pedagogical strategies inside technology. You might want to do research in this field. In which case you really need to know the research methodologies of educational technology. As well as, what some different communities out there have already established in these fields. You might want to do a mixture of both, you might want to do user testing. In which case you need some research methodology but some understanding of the tools as well. Or maybe you're interested in the broader issues of educational technology, how it intersects with culture or personal identity. In which case you really need to understand what those community's theories right now are. And the different strategies they go about to understand those phenomena. So what really matters in this class is knowing what you need to know to contribute in the way you want to contribute. So if the learning goal of this class is that you would know enough to contribute to the educational technology community, what's the learning outcome? A learning outcome is something demonstrable. A learning goal is something you should know by the end of the course. A learning outcome is something you should be able to do. And here the learning outcome is a subtle twist on that learning goal. If the goal is to know enough to contribute, the outcome is that you will have actually contributed. Now of course the way you contribute is dependent on your interests or your passions in this class. For example, if you're more interested in designing educational technology, then your contribution and your learning outcome will be that you have actually designed educational technology. If you're interested more on the research side, then by the end of this course your outcome will be you have done research. You have actually participated in researching educational technology and made a contribution to the research community. So depending on your interests, the nature of your learning outcomes will differ, but the overall outcome is the same for everybody. By the end of this class, you should be able to, and in fact, you will have contributed to the educational technology community. If the learning goals are what you should know, and the learning outcomes are what you should be able to do. Then the learning assessments are how we assess whether or not you know what you need to know. And can do what you need to be able to do by the end of this course. Here the assessments are going to be very authentic. The overall outcome we aim for is that you should be able to contribute to the field of educational technology. So the assessment will be based on whether or not you contributed to the field of educational technology. You'll build a tool, conduct some research, evaluate some technology. But by the end of this course you'll have actually contributed to the community of educational technology. Now, there will be a lot of milestones along the way. Before you can get to your contribution, you need to demonstrate your mastery of some topic. You need to propose your idea. You need to execute your plan, and then you need to deliver your final results. By the end of it you will have created a real contribution to the educational technology community. The learning goals, outcomes, and assessments of this course all mention the idea of contributing to the field of educational technology. So it's really important that we ask, what is educational technology? Is educational technology only the use of technology in the context of learning? As far as we're concerned, no. For us, educational technologie is any place for education and technology intersect. Even if it occurs far away from the actual learning process. So, for example, we could use technology to help the admissions process, to identify what students are more likely to succeed. We can use technology to facilitate registration. In fact, we already do, but we can use it to make it better. We could use technology to help load balance or anticipate what classes are going to draw more students so we can allocate our resources more intelligently. We could use technology to facilitate collaboration at a distance, to help students work on group projects together even when they're not located in the same place. And there's also a big field that's not the education using technology, but it's the education of technology. Teaching students to use technology or to program or things like that. So there are a lot of places where education and technology intersect that aren't right there in the context of learning. And as far as we're concerned, they all fall under the umbrella of educational technology. This class is really built around the projects. And while there are some details that'll change from semester to semester, there's some principals that we anticipate staying true for the long run. The first is that this project is very open ended and you have a lot of leeway to specify what you want to work on. You might choose to do some research, you might choose to build a tool. You might choose to investigate a current technology, you have a lot of room to decide what you want to work on for the project. You'll propose it yourself, scope it out, develop a plan and then execute it. Second, these projects are intended to be real contributions to the field of educational technology, and so we want to do as much as possible within the semester to get them ready to take out into the world. So, this class will culminate in a paper ready for publication in the conference or journal most pertinent to the work you do in this class. You don't have to submit it, of course, but we want to have all the work done for you, so that if you would like to take that next step, you are already ready. I'll judge the success of this class based on the extent to which it generates publications, research programs, start up businesses or tools that we can use here in the OMSES program. And third, just as these projects are intended to be real contributions to the field of educational technology, we'd like to treat them as such ourselves. So with your permission, we'd like to include your projects in our course library, to provide to future students in this course. Maybe they'll borrow from your ideas. Or maybe, some of them might even pick up your project and take it to the next step. The structure of this course will likely change a bit from semester to semester. After all, we hope to learn and improve the course over time. But there's an overarching structure that we anticipate staying fairly consistent. You'll start the course by really getting into an intense phase of study in the field that you're most interested in within educational technology. You'll answer some reflective questions. You'll go out and find your own resources. And you'll really develop a mastery of that topic. At the end of that stage, you'll be asked to demonstrate that mastery with a custom question written just for you to answer. To demonstrate that you can really think in this field, you can contribute to this community. Then it's time to propose your project. You'll work with your mentor to scope out your plan for the rest of the semester and decide how you're going to bring your idea to life. At this point, you might also decide to work in a group and tackle a big problem as a team, instead of small problems as individuals. Then it's time to work on your project and you'll spend the rest of the semester working on it and delivering weekly reports on how you're progressing. You'll talk to your mentor a lot during this phase to get their constant feedback and evaluate how the project is coming together. And then at the end of the semester, you'll deliver the project, a paper and a presentation. So that you can share your ideas, both with your classmates and potentially, with the broader field of educational technology. The goal is that your project won't end there. We hope that this is just a jumping off point for something that you'll continue to work on going forward. This course is also really built around the idea of mentorship. We have a team of TAs, but more than teaching assistants and more than graders, they're really meant to be mentors for you as you go through this course. Every mentor will have a small group of students that they'll interact with on a weekly basis. You'll have the same mentor review all your assignments, review your project proposal. Review all your status reports on that project and review the final deliverable. They're really meant to get a familiarity with your interests, your project idea, and your progress. In fact, when we reach the end of the semester, if you decide to keep your project going as a research agenda or a startup, I wouldn't be surprised if your mentor even became a partner for you. We're getting near the end of lesson one in this course. And in a normal course, after finishing lesson one, you would go on and watch lesson two. But we don't have a lesson two. In fact, this is the only lesson in the course. Where you would usually find lessons you'll instead find a curated library of research publications, media articles, original interviews, and things to help you develop your understanding of whatever topics you're most interested in. In this course, instead of watching a series of lessons in some sequential order, you'll instead find your way through this library however you want. Choose the topics that are most interesting to you and really delve into them. Read about them. See if you can find your own sources for them. If you have any questions on what you should go into or what you should read about. Ask your mentor, ask your classmates, ask me, and we'll help you guide you through the course library. But the goal is that your trajectory in this course is really determined by you. As we wrap up, I want to welcome you one more time to CS6460, Educational Technology. We'll be running most of the class through announcements and through interactions on the forum, so I'd recommend you check those often. And in fact, I'd really recommend you check in at least once per day, if only for a few minutes. Part of the goal for this course is to develop a community of collaborators, and communities really thrive on frequent activity. You'll definitely see us there and we hope to see you there as well. Beyond that, we're really excited to see what you come up with, and we're looking forward to getting started. I hope you are, too. So I'm here with Jessica Uelmen who's the program manager for mobile nano-degrees here at Udacity. Thank you so much for talking to us today. Yeah, happy to be here. My pleasure. So the first thing I wanted to ask you was, that there's this trend in technology that the technology industry tends to be very male-oriented. And there's this perception that therefore, any educational technology that comes out of the technology industry will also be oriented more towards male style ways of learning. So what can we do when we're designing educational technology to make sure that we're not preserving this trend of it being by men for men? Yeah, it's a really tough question and a tough thing to address, but I think it really starts with awareness, which is great to be here and talking about it already. But, really scrutinizing and looking at what's being designed, looking at things through a neutral lens. Even getting feedback from women, or from other teachers. Education as a field, is primarily dominated by women. So it's kind of interesting that ed tech then becomes more male skewed. So I think if there's a way to sort of start blending those worlds, we'll get to a little more diverse pool. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense, I actually hadn't thought about that before, but you're right that with technology it's very male oriented, but teaching tends to be very female oriented And so there's a lot of great overlap there and a lot of chance for collaboration as long as we actually go out and do it. Absolutely. And talking to teachers I think is something that anyone is on the educational technology needs to do more of anyway. Yes. And so now we kind of kill two birds with one stone. Yep. So, but given that we're probably not going to change the entire industry in the next four months. Of the students currently in the class, what are some considerations they should make when they're developing their tools besides possibly going out and talking to teachers? Are there any things they can keep in mind? I think maybe just even surveying the landscape. I mean, there's also, people do a lot of efforts for putting educational technology solutions towards women, and a lot of times unfortunately, that's like making it pink. So, let's not make it pink, okay? But, looking at those solutions, maybe seeing what they're doing and seeing how it might be able to adapt to what they're building. And so I think that the other thing that comes up here is that if our ultimate goal is to make the technology industry itself a little bit less male dominated, the people in this class will go on to careers in technology. What can they do when they're in their future workplaces or their current workplaces? They can kind of try and combat this trend a little bit. Yeah, I mean, I think the main thing and something that I always push for is not necessarily making a woman a commodity. It's not a hire because she's a woman, or it's not collaborating because she's a woman, and it's a very difficult thing to do. Because if you look at, the percentages, and it's like wow, there's not a whole lot of women here. We need to hire women, but that's not always the best solution. And then when there are women in the workplace in maybe leadership roles making their impact more visible externally and internally, will sort of help fill that role model role that we are always talking about. We need more women in tech role models, but doing so will then hopefully inspire more people to pursue that as a field. Yeah, and I think there's a very interesting alignment there between what we deal with in industry, and what we actually deal with here in the OMS program. That as I'm recording this, hopefully it will change in future semesters. The OMS program is 90% male, and there's a tendency to think if it's 90% male we just need to admit more women. Right. But that's kind of, treating the symptom as the thing to be treated as opposed to, it's a symptom of some underlying issue. And here the issue is appeal to women, or if there are any obstacles that we're not really considering that apply more to women than men. Resolving those obstacles as opposed to just, you know, changing admission criteria, or something like that. Right. And I think then, also, making things a little bit more welcoming, or breaking down those like a girl stereotypes. One of the things that always pops into my head is I majored in electrical engineering, and so we had to take physics classes, and it was my sophomore year, and we were in a physics study group. It was me and a bunch of guys, because that's the way it goes, and I was helping them solve each of the problems, and I was doing a lot of the teaching. And one of the guys piped up and said hey, are we going to let the girl teach us how it's done. [LAUGH] And comments like that doesn't really make for a welcoming environment, and it's a very benign comment, right. It's not meant to be hurtful, but it is uncomfortable. So just try to be aware of those types of comments. Yeah, it plays some kind of assumption that the assumptions really need to be addressed. Right. Comment might be harmless but what it's perpetuating is not. Yes, absolutely. Well, great. Well, thank you much for talking to us today. Yeah, my pleasure. Always happy to talk. [LAUGH] I'm here with Kathleen Mullaney, who's the Vice President of Careers here at Udacity. Kathleen, thank you so much for talking to us today. Thank you, David. So I want to talk to Kathleen about issues of gender in educational technology. So the first thing I'd ask is, there is a trend in educational technology, that because the technology industry is so dominated by men, the things we create in Ed Tech, are often very oriented towards men. So what can we do to kind of try and break that cycle? When I first started at Udacity back when we were creating the first courses, we realized that this was actually going to become quite prevalent. The first courses we launched were CS 101, which is into to computer programming in Python. The focus was how to build a search engine. And the second course was an A.I. course focused on how to program a robotic car. And those seem pretty agnostic. Now a car and a search engine are not gender based. But, there is a tendency to view those actually as more male oriented. Like cars in general are more focused on men. And we realize that, actually just choosing topics for the courses and the examples that we use in courses could have a great effect on whether or not men or women would be attracted to take the course to begin with. It's like one of the things that we really focused on was trying, after we saw those first courses and thought about how we want to market future courses, we actually took a more broadened perspective. And we tried to actually make things as agnostic as we possibly could, and had much more attention to it. So the first thing that I always tell people is that you didn't need to be aware of the stereotypes that exist for everybody. Including I have many stereotypes of men and women myself, even though I am very well educated on this topic. And so keeping those in mind, and keeping them at your forefront when you're designing any kind of materials it is crucially important, making sure that you're not playing into any standard gender archetypes. So another example from the History of Udacity is that we produce this course on Tales from the Genome. So it was about genetics. And we had a male and a female instructor, and the male was the expert, and the female was the novice. And they played this really nice dynamic on film, where the novice would ask the expert questions. There were times, though, in the filming, that we realized that we were essentially portraying the female as this dumb person who didn't know the answers to things. When really, she's very intelligent and has her own background. She's just not a geneticist. And that was what we were trying to portray there. We didn't want to say that one person is smarter than the other, but this person just doesn't have this expertise. And it was something that we didn't actually realize until pretty far into filming the course. And we went through and actually looked through every video and actually said, do we feel that this is portraying women in a negative light? Or playing into these easy archetypes that, films so often use, a woman in distress. She needs help. She needs to be saved by this knight in shining armor. And we ended up cutting a lot of content and changing it, because we realized we just don't want to be portraying women in that light. Another example just to, again, to give you an idea of how much this is very prevalent and how much we don't even realize it, is that there's a video in one of our job rescript courses that had a complaint from a student that said why are you playing into these gender roles? Haven't you heard of stereotype threat? If you haven't heard of stereotype threat, that's where basically reinforcing a stereotype in the context where a stereotype is typically threatened. I guess that's the name, is more likely to cause those issues than not, so, for example, women are told by society that they're not as good at math as men are. And if you ask the woman to state her gender before she takes a math test, she will do worse on that math test. And so, that's what stereotype is, as an example. And what we realized is that, we were naming variables in this JavaScript course. Completely what we thought was benign. But somebody saw that, you know, we named one of the variables gal. The variable it was supposed to be a hero so it was definitely portraying women in a positive light, but pointing out that there are women in a situation where they may already feel that they're not confident. May actually cause people to think of their abilities as less, which I don't necessarily agree in this scenario but just to point out the of the issues that may come up and how much you do need to be aware of them. So I would say like the basic thing that you can do is to educate yourself on on the dynamics that we know exist today. So talking about stereotypes and bias in particular. And not only with gender, though I don't if we're talking about diversity at large, but as with any underrepresented group. In computer science or in technology in general. Yeah. Do you know, and I assume your familiar with imposter syndrome in this context as well, can you comment on that in the same kind of- Yeah, it's very similar to stereotyping. They go hand in hand oftentimes. So imposter syndrome is that, and I feel this all the time. I'm a high-level executive at this company, and I still feel this. I have a PhD, and I feel the exact same way. Yeah. [LAUGH] It's like oh I don't have the answer to this yeah. It's basically you feel that you don't have the expertise that you need to fulfill a position or fulfill a job. And this is actually one of the things that I mentor girls, especially the girls who code groups that nobody knows what they're doing. Nobody, I mean it. Like I don't know any one person who actually knows what they're doing all the time. And it's fun to actually at least be in the start of environment because we try to raise that fact as much as we possibly really can. I don't know if Sebastian liked to mention his failure award. So if you try to break the company, and we've succeeded at various points. [LAUGH] Yes we have. He rewards you with a bottle of wine, a nice bottle of wine. And the whole point here is that it's said to highlight this fact, I think at least, to counter this imposter syndrome, that you're acting out of fear because you think that you can't do something. Because you're not smart enough or you don't have the right experience or the number of years of experience or the specific background. A number of people at Udacity work in computer science. They don't have computer science degrees. A number of our students in particular do not have computer science degrees but are looking to get into the technical field. One of the most frequent questions I receive is really focusing on how can I get a job here when they say a CS degree is required. I have to counsel people on they say this but that's really just this shortcut that people use to say people just want a certain level of understanding of these topics or a certain level of work experience. And time after time I talk to employers and actually tried to assist this out. And they say, no, we don't actually want assist really, we just really want to know like do you know this stuff. And so that's what we focus on Udacity its like know the stuff, and do it in a way that is more flexible and it meet your needs rather than having to go back and get a second degree often times. Yeah. That was a very long answer to that question. [LAUGH] That's all right. I ask on imposter syndrome because we've done some interesting research on imposter syndrome in the OMS. And it's interesting that the research came out that suggested that people who experience imposter syndrome more strongly are less likely to take a chance on an experimental program like this. Yes, exactly. Because if it doesn't end up panning out, it reflects poorly on me. And I'm already an imposter, so now people recognize that. Yeah, yeah. And so, I think combating that in this program is really, really important because it helps increase our diversity. Because the people who more often experience that are the ones we really want in this program anyway. Yeah, have you talked about growth or fixed mindsets in that context? We've talked about it a little bit in one of the other lessons on motivation and meta cognition. So yeah. Yeah, one of the best ways to counteract an imposter syndrome is to have a growth mindset intervention to highlight that, you know making mistakes helps you learn. It doesn't actually show that you're stupid or that you don't have the ability to do something. Yeah. In fact, no one ever learns really anything except for by failure. Yeah exactly. So Kathleen will agree with me that mindset is the one book that everyone should read I assume. Yep. Yep. [LAUGH] And so we talk a lot about doing this in Ed Tech and how to design educational technology initiatives that do this. But many of our students probably won't go into this field, but they'll go into fields that suffer from these same issues. Yep, totally. So just when they're on the job in the future, what can they do to try and improve diversity in their workplace, without being kind of pandering, or some of the things we more often see? Sure, yeah, I guess the first thing is that if you are not an underrepresented group that doesn't mean you can't participate in trying to actually alleviate the issues that these groups encounter. If you are a white male, sorry Dave. It's okay. The things you can do are educate yourself and help promote these issues to other people. I noticed actually when I first brought up the issue of bias and stereotype with the company here, one of the things that came up, is you're like, I am a white man, I feel like I can't participate, because I'm the enemy. No, you're not the enemy, that's actually not what we're trying to say here. A stereotype is a shortcut in your cognitive process. It's something that you see something over and over and over again, and your brain just makes a shortcut. And it helps you think about things. It actually helps you in your life quite a bit. We're not saying that all stereotypes are bad. You just need to understand the ones that are, and the ones that result in poor judgment or behavior. And a bias also is the shortcut, but it's also an error. So if you talk about like in research. A bias is actually just an error in measurement. And so what we want to do is actually just again, the awareness of these things helps cut down the effects of them. I don't know the exact statistic right now, but a pretty big amount. And so educate yourself on the issues that face people in these groups. So for the technology industry, it's something about 20 to 30% female on a good day and if that's the case, then what are the things you can do to actually get, to be more equal. And actually, probably educating yourself on why that's even important. The point isn't just to have equality, the point is to have diversity of thought. And you're not going to have diversity of thought if everybody looks the same, has had the same education, comes from the same type of family and from the same like economic background. So businesses, it's actually shown you know through research again that businesses that have diverse employees are more successful than ones that are not. So understanding like why you actually want this and the more logical reasons rather than the emotional ones are just like I don't want there to be inequality. And actually try to move the needle based on logic rather than emotional responses to the situation. Have you read Thinking Fast and Slow? Yeah it's a good book. If you all haven't heard of it, it's a great book. I wouldn't have even connected it to this, but I'm glad you mentioned about shortcuts. It talks a lot about how stereotypes are just kind of easy ways to think that we fall into because we can't think deeply about every single thing we encounter all day long. Yeah, exactly. But being aware of them is really the quickest way to know when you're doing it badly. And not feeling like you're doing something wrong. Yeah. I noticed another example. Hopefully theses are helpful for you guys. One of the stereotypes, and again the biases, that comes in to play is that women are more often judged by their character, so by how likable they are, and men are more often judged by their skills. Which is really ridiculous, especially when it comes into interviewing. And so it's something that I work on very, very much with our Udacity students in helping them apply for jobs. For the most part people are not interviewing you for how likable you are. They're interviewing you because they want you to perform a specific function in a company. And it's important for if you're an interviewer to remember that and also as an interviewee because you want to make sure that you're not giving any easy paths for an interviewer to fall into and basically say, oh, I'm going to choose the shortcut. And so the things that you can actually do are to enforce that you have the skills for a job, in your rhetoric in your answers to interview questions. Highlight that you have the skills. Don't just smile a lot and be likeable. That's also an important trait. I'm not saying that that's not important at all, but you can make it easier for yourself and for the people who can easily be tracked by stereotypes to come out on top. I know that when I was interviewing for a candidate I was writing all of my feedback about this interview that I had just completed and I was saying how she had a really sunny disposition and I was like, what am I talking about? That has nothing to do with this job and for me, once I realized that, that's when I decided actually to start doing these talks here at Udacity because if I, this is one of my favorite topics. If I'm so susceptible to this despite the amount that I read about it, that I do my research, that I try to help others and I'm still falling into these traps. We need to make it as prevalent so that I have support. So I get a team of people to help me actually do better myself. It's kind of like if you're trying to lose weight. You're much more likely to succeed if you have some social pressure to help you with achieving your goal. Yeah absolutely. So if you wife was to say, David you're trying to lose weight, so let's make sure we're not keeping cookies in the house, or whatever. You're going to have more support. And so- Yeah exactly. Accountability. Exactly. So this accountability is important if we're able to help each other learn about these things and be active, rather than passive about the efforts to improve them. Personally, I think that's what would lead to more success. Yeah, absolutely, I agree completely. Do you have any last thoughts you want to share with our students, as they prepare to embark on their projects, or maybe wrap up their projects? Yeah, I guess one of the things that I wish I had understood a little sooner, was really think about, if you're designing a course or a product, think about your learner or your user. And really understand who that person is, or who that group of people are. And do your best to limit it, because making a product for everybody will never win. And really try to reach that person. I mean I think once we were able to actually figure out some of the individuals that we were reaching with the Udacity courses. We got a lot better about creating content that fit their needs. I think really just focus on your user, and make sure that you know who that person is, so that you are solving a problem for them, or you're helping them achieve whatever goal that they're trying to achieve. Make sense. Yeah. Well great. Thank you so much for talking to us today, Kathleen. Thanks for having me. Good luck with your projects. [SOUND] [LAUGH] In the other lessons of this course, we've talked about some of the pedagogical strategies. Some of the research methodologies. Some of the existing tools and some of the broader issues in educational technology. With this knowledge, you're now equipped with the information you need to start to solve some problems or investigate some phenomena. In case you're curious what you should look into, though, we're going to spend this lesson talking about some of the open issues in the educational technology community. We'll talk about some of the problems that still exist, that haven't been solved by technology yet. And we'll talk about some of the phenomena that have been introduced or emphasized by technology. You really could use some investigation, could use some better understanding. I'm here with Jason Barros who's the program manager for the Georgia Tech team here at Udacity. He also formerly worked at the education startup, EdMoto. Thank you so much for talking to us today. Yeah absolutely David. So the first thing I'd ask is that many of our students in this class might be interested in spinning up their projects to a startup after this class is done. Okay. What are some obstacles or some things to keep in mind when dealing with the business side of educational technology? I mean, one, you really want to go in and exhibit a lot of patience. It is really slow working with universities and any educational institutions. There are a lot of things that they need to consider that you may not necessarily be considering. At the time you're beginning your start up. They have federal laws, state laws, and you have to look out for student's rights and privacy. All that comes into play anytime you want to work or do anything on an educational institution. So what about ed tech when it's not necessarily dealing with academia though. For example, here at Udacity we do education but we don't do it partnering with a University except for Georgia Tech. We do other programs. So are there any specific considerations when doing it outside of that overlap? I mean one, you really want to focus on, what it is that you're trying to get across or teach to the students. While we're at Moto, you know our primary concern was communication, we wanted to make sure that the communication flowed between the teacher and the students, and amongst the students themselves. Here at Udacity, we're focused a little bit more on the pedagogy of actually teaching a particular subject. So, we want to make sure that what we're teaching, and how we're teaching it is particularly sound. Some of those students who might be interested in spinning their project up into some kind of business or start up. What would you say the first step is? What do they need to do in the two or three weeks after this semester is over to move that along? I mean, really start small and be patient. Share with your classmates and other people at the educational institution Institutions or just friends, and present the idea to them. And try to get a little feedback of what they think is going to be viable. And then, putting together a minimum viable product is really important. You don't want to go too far and try to build something that's going to get a lot of users right away. It's going to take time. At Moto, we were a grassroots organization where teachers talked to teachers about our product but it took time to build up the number of users and after a while, the network worked such that we were able to get millions and millions of students and teachers on the platform. But it took a long time and a lot of patience. Yeah, makes sense. Also for the students who might want to go into the business side of educational technology, do you have any final suggestions for them before we sign out? Again, patience. If you're going to work with any kind of educational institution, they have their process. And what I discovered here at Udacity, working with Georgia Tech, is the business world moves at the speed of light. And unfortunately, the academic world doesn't, and for good cause, they need to be careful. And they're trying to protect their students, they're trying to protect their institution. They have state laws, federal laws and all that stuff and working through that stuff, it takes time. And the more you can communicate and be open with what you intend to do and share with as many people as possible, the better luck you're going to have. I can say I participated kind of peripherally in the NSF I-Corps process. It looks to develop academic research up into businesses. And that's one of the things they really, really emphasize as well, is customer discovery. Go out and talk to your customers. That one of the number one things that trips up early start ups is they assume they know their customer. Right. And they assume they know exactly what they want. They never talk to them because we know what you want. And they just assign their tool for them. And then hit market and then find out they designed something that no one wants. Absolutely. So really, talking to the people who might want to use the tool throughout would be, I think, I agree, the first step to do. Absolutely, and getting the perspective is really important. We come in and we want to disrupt everything. We want to disrupt education. We think we have a really good idea in doing so and we have the best intentions. But oftentimes their perspective, while sometimes even archaic, is still pretty valuable. You want to make sure you take that into account because these are the people you are going to be working with. Yes we all want to serve the students and make the world a better place. But we need to do it in a measured fashion. Yeah. Sounds good. All right, well thank you so much for talking to us. Yeah, any time, David. I'm here with Stuart Frye, who's the Vice President of Content here at Udacity. Stuart, thank you so much for talking to us today. Absolutely. So Stuart's going to talk to us a bit about the business side of educational technology. I know many people are interested in seeing if they can develop something they could spin off into a startup. Also Stuart, for any of our students who are interested in going into the startup world or into the ed tech world, on the business side of things, what should they know about what it's like to work in this space? I think it's, one of the most interesting and exciting places to start a new business or launch an innovation right now, but it's also a very complex place to think about, as a market. Education's one of the places where you have multiple users and your end user is not always the person who is making the purchase decisions about the product. So if we think about the spectrum of education from preschool up to higher ed. You have parents, you have teachers, you have students, you have administrators, and the different products that are being launched across K-12 and higher ed are targeted in some way at a mix of those people. And identifying who are your end users, who are your gatekeepers, and who are making the ultimate purchase decisions can be one of the most complex set of decisions you make about your business model, as well as the features and functionality you're going to design the product around. Yeah, and I agree completely. I think that, especially as an educator myself, I'll always think about the student as my consumer, but that's not the person you end up selling to. That's the person that ends up using your tool- [CROSSTALK] Right. And oftentimes what they would think about your tool is not the ultimate issue, learning can be frustrating. Yep. It's the only domain I know of where frustrating your end user can sometimes actually be part of the goal. Yep, absolutely. So I know that some of our students have project ideas already, some of them are probably looking for ideas. They know, they want to go into this space, but they don't know exactly what to do. So are there any open issues, open problems that you think would be worth tackling? Yeah, I mean, I think as you think about problems to solve in the education space, I think your solutions are going to fall into a couple of categories. One is a content category, so, that's where Udacity plays, right? We are creating content that we're making available as part of an online Master's degree program or as part of our nano degree programs. In addition to content, there are tools. So tools either for students, maybe it makes students more productive, a better way to take notes, develop projects, tools for teachers, a better way to discover new content, track data, analyze students. And I think between content and tools, you need to think about which area your solution lies best in. Also, always encourage entrepreneurs to think about a problem you've faced immediately. So, if you haven't spent any time in a classroom as an educator, you might think about tackling a problem that students face, because you have spent time as a student. On the other hand David, you've spent a ton of time as an educator and you probably have a long list of problems that you'd like solved. So I would start there when you think about coming up with a solution or a business idea. Yeah, makes sense, I think in some ways when you're designing for yourself as a customer. It's a good place to start, although you never want to design your entire project that way, because you don't want to design something that's great for you, but doesn't work for anybody else. Right and I think that emphasizes the importance of user testing. At the very earliest stages, I mean any ed tech idea that you have should start as wire frames, pencil sketches, balsamic, mock ups that you get out in front of people. See how they react. Test an idea very early and often rather than, to your point, designing an end solution that works perfectly for you as an individual, but doesn't have product market fit more broadly. Yeah, absolutely. So let's say it's the end of the semester, a day after the final project is due and now students are wondering, what do I do next? What do you think the first step that they should take when the semester's over, to maybe scale their project up and do a business or startup should be? Oh wow, yeah so, this gets back to user testing. I would identify 20 people that could be the end user of your product, and go out and get some version of it in their hands. And when I say a version of it, I do mean it could be a wire frame, it could be a mock up, it could be a prototype in Photoshop, or you could have written some code and built out a very simple working version. But step one is to get it out in front of people, because I guarantee you, your solution will change and evolve over time. And the more quickly you can get input beyond your own, the better. And finding those people to test with isn't always easy, but I think within the context you have, I mean you're on a university or you're surrounded by a community of students, at least. Virtually you can find a lot of people quickly. Yeah, I think that because we're in this community and because I think a lot of the projects that our students develop will actually be targeted at the OS program, because it's what they experience. You've got 3,000 people sitting around, experiencing the same thing that you're experiencing, who might be willing to test it out. Yep, absolutely. I can also share that for the NSF iCore project, which seeks to turn academic research into real world businesses, one of the first things they ask all their participants to do is find 100 customers in one month, and talk to all of them for half an hour. Wow, do they have to be paying customers? I don't think, no, not paying customers yet, but 100 potential customers. Okay. So for this it would be, talk to 100 parents, students, teachers, principals, get the the full range of perspectives on that. Okay. And they really value that side of things as well. Awesome. Anything last to share with our student about working in this field? I think we often say that, there are two big fields that have yet to be disrupted by technology, education, and healthcare. Two pretty important ones, right? I would say that disruption is a word that's often overused and misused. But when you boil down some of the key tenets that Clay Christensen talks about when it comes to disruptive technologies. One of those tenets that I personally find most exciting, I think offers the most promise to powerful solutions in education technology is non consumption. If you think about the fact that, in the United States, only one in three adults has a four year degree. And internationally, only about 7% of people end up with an advanced degree. The number of people, that the things you build, could impact. If you go over and after those people who are least well served by the existing system today, the non consumer of quality education today, people who can't benefit from the system as it's built. That's a huge number of people and it's a massive impact. So look for those non consumers, look for those opportunities to help people who aren't being helped today and you'll build great products. That sounds like part of the foundation, part of the philosophy behind this program in general is finding people who may not be the underserved people in some remote countries, but people who currently can't access quality higher education based on geographic, or family, or- Economic. Yeah, exactly, constraints. Yep. Great. Thank you so much for talking to us today. Absolutely, thanks for having me, hope anything I said is helpful and I hope you build amazing things, good luck. Thanks. Communities to practice are unique learning and doing environments. They were detailed in great book from 1991 called, Legitimate Peripheral Participation. And it basically suggests that novices and experts work together in certain environments. And the novices actually learn from the experts while the experts are doing some task. And over time, the novices take a little bit of responsibility and then a little bit more. And learn how to contribute to that environment while also contributing to that environment. So for an example that's used in that book is the example of midwives. So when a midwife is first being trained in certain areas, the first thing she goes through is just being in the room during childbirth. She experiences the different things that the experienced midwives are saying and doing and just kind of gets a feel for it. And then over time, she takes on a couple responsibilities, and a couple more, and learns, and learns a little bit more each day. And eventually is an expert herself, and can start training her own novices. It's a very apprenticeship driven approach. And that book they suggested, this is really one of the best ways to learn. because your learning right in the authentic context, where you'll ultimately contribute to what you learned. But it presents a lot of difficulties for classroom learning, because classrooms are completely absent of this. You very rarely have classrooms where you really are doing what you are learning to do. You're learning in place to the idea of being that you're going to go out into the world and then do it in a job or do it in a career. But in the classroom you're not actually contributing, but this learning theory suggests that that's the opposite of a great way to learn. So the question is, can we create these kind of environments where this is simulated, where students are experiencing what it would be like to contribute a little more over time to this enterprise that they're trying to learn. Technology may be able to help us with this, because with technology we can create these kinds of similations. We can simulate, whatever career the students are going to go into and simulate giving them some of these responsibilities while AI agents or the simulation itself takes care of the rest. So we'll talk about the value of this educational approach, as well as how we can use technology to really bring it to life. I'm here with Jarrod Parkes who is a course developer at Udacity. Thank you so much for talking to us today, Jarrod. Thanks for having me. We're going to talk a little bit about student isolation, and especially student isolation as it arises in online classes. I wanted to talk to Jarrod about this, because, Jarrod, you have unique experience in three different ways on this topic. One is as the student of online classes. One is as the designer of online classes. And one is also as a remote employee. Jarrod works for Udacity in Mountain View, but actually works out of his home in Alabama. So that's kind of three interesting takes on the angle of isolation. So let's start with the class, with the experience as a student in a class. So what's your experience being a student in an online class where you might not be colocated with your fellow students? So every time that I've taken an online class, I think one of the things I quickly find myself doing is wanting to share my experience with people. So whether I'm taking the class in isolation, which is usually the case. When I'm done with whatever the lesson is that day, or the content that I've consumed, very quickly I want to talk with other people about it. So for me, I've always been able, luckily, to facilitate that with actual in-person conversations. But I think for others, it's useful to have a place to discuss topics. So is that a perspective you try and incorporate when you're designing courses? Is there a way we can Absolutely. facilitate that? Absolutely. I think any and every opportunity that we have and that students want to take advantage of that is discussion-based, it's always beneficial. I mean, that really, I think, helps capture what is difficult sometimes in the online education space, is that you don't have the same physical classroom that's traditionally always been there, where people are having these types of conversations. It's true that there's an absence of that physical interaction, that face-to-face interaction that we have right here. But, in your experience, is there any instance where not only can the online environment be as good as it might be in person, but can it ever be better? I think so. I think what the online environment has allowed me to do personally, and I think maybe some others as well, is that it allows me to put my head down and just go straight into a topic and not have to weed through, say, the conversation sometimes. So it's kind of a mix-and-match approach. And, yeah, when I want to learn a certain topic, I can go and find it freely. And I think that's something that is better inherently about it. Yeah. I think that one of my favorite experiences with isolation in an online classroom and the comparison to an on-campus class is that on campus, if I know there's a student question coming up, or I know students are confused about something, and it's, you know, Friday night, and I just finished a lecture on Friday afternoon, and I'm aware that students are confused, I have to wait until Monday to get back to them and talk to them about that. But what we have online is what I call 24/7 classroom. It's always there. Students are always available to interact, since they're always checking their email. They can always visit forums. They always have a way that they can interact with one another. As I mentioned this before in these interviews, but I can have an experience where I'll log into our class forum and in five minutes I can interact with ten different students and then come back an hour later and do it again. And that's something we can't really do in person. In person, we have this time box thing and we have limited resources to meet in person because we have different classes and things like that. So there's a lot of things that we can do online that actually can break that isolation. But to your point, it's not something that just happens automatically. Right. It's something, yeah. And it's interesting. It's kind of like a dichotic state. I think students have moments in their learning where they really want to be in conversation, and then they have moments in their learning where they really don't. And I think a lot of times as you're taking online courses, a lot of that responsibility is being placed on you as the learner. And I think for us as course designers, if we can take some of that responsibility away and facilitate the times when you want to learn with your head down to the grindstone or when you want to have class discussion. Yeah, that need's really nice, too, because I sometimes comment on what I call a rule of 20s, which is if anything is effective for 20% of the students in a class, we should use it, because 20% is a decent enough portion. But we're never going to have anything reach 100%. And that's really nice here, because it means that those 20% who are, or more, who are going to get a lot out of class discussions can do them. But those who really don't get a lot out of them don't have to sit in the classroom listening to them. Right. And, I mean, I think a lot of students experience this at an early age, for instance, in traditional classrooms where the conversation is something you already know. A lot of people enter a grade school at very different levels. And so if you don't skip a grade or you don't get into the accelerated program, you get bored, and that's not good for students. That's a waste of time. And I think that students learn over time that if I'm not consistently being challenged, that school is boring. And that's definitely not what we want them to learn, because eventually school won't be boring. Eventually, you know, they'll get to the level that they're ready for. But we don't want them to have learned that they can skate through until then. Right. So come tell a little bit about your experience, if you don't mind, also as a pay remote employee, someone working at a distance. Is there a similarity between being a remote student and a remote employee? I think there are similarities in the fact that I feel like I need discussion as a remote employee, whether that's facilitated through online chat or if I can just talk to a friend. So, you know, where I work from in Alabama, I try to do my best to create a space that is kind of the office that's very separate from what is the home. And then I've also tried to force myself during the day to go out and have conversations with people, even if it's just over lunch, because if I don't do that, I feel like I've been in a cave all day. And it drives motivation down. The same kind of motivation maybe it is for learning, I feel like it drives my motivation down for producing good material and doing good work. I think nowadays we also are, have the benefit of a lot of really nice tools around these programs that we have, our class forums. I know that the OMSCS program uses HipChat. We at EDSC use Slack. And there are some really nice tools that can kind of try and to recreate that environment of being in an office or being in a classroom. That I always have people at my fingertips that I can talk to or I can always post a message right now while I'm thinking about it that people will see when they have time, as opposed to, oh, I need to remember to bring that up on Monday when I get back to class, so. Yeah, it's one of those, it's like that strange, or it's strange, it's like the old saying, you know, you don't know how much you miss something until it's gone. And when you're in the office every day around tons of people and maybe you have too many meetings, you're like, gosh, I wish I didn't have to meet all the time, whereas when I'm remote, I feel like I look forward to the meetings because that's my opportunity to actually get to talk to somebody during the day. Yeah. Absolutely. So do you have any final thoughts for our students who might be trying to solve the problem of student isolation when they're designing their tools? I think it's just to be conscientious of the things we just talked about, and to recognize that, you know, maybe when your motivation is down and you feel isolated, to go out and seek and speak with other students. You never know what you're going to learn. And I think there's a lot of reciprocity between what happens in student conversations a lot. I mean, you're going to get something out of it and somebody that you're speaking with is going to get something out of it. Okay. Makes a lot of sense to me. Great. Thank you so much for talking to us today. Here we're going to talk about constructionism. Constructionism is a learning theory and probably the most influential learning theory of the past century. If you've taken a psychology class, you're probably familiar with constructivism, the brain child of Jean Piaget, that describes how people learn about the world around them. Constructionism is a learning theory from Seymour Papert, that takes those ideas of constructivism and applies them to how we should actually develop curricula or develop activities to best facilitate student learning. Constructionism is really about putting the learner in the center of learning activity, and having them actually construct an understanding of whatever concept we're trying to teach them. It suggests that we can't just pour our knowledge into a learner's head, but really they have to build their understanding of whatever we're communicating to them. Now constructionism is kind of the umbrella over a lot of different pedagogics that we'll talk about in this class. It's the umbrella over project based learning, problem based learning, learning by design, learning by example, learning by doing. All of these things put the student in the center of the learning process and have them construct their understanding of a concept through some authentic experience. So constructionism is really about facilitating that active learning process, putting the learner in the center and having them experience the concept in an authentic way and construct their understanding of it. When you think of assessments in education, you probably think of what we call summative assessments. These are things like tests and quizzes that occur at the end of some learning process, to see whether or not you learned the material by some deadline. And you take the assessment, you find out if you passed or failed, and you move forward either way. But wouldn't it be great to find out while you're learning if you're learning the material well enough? That's where formative assessment comes in. Formative assessment is assessment while you're learning some new material. And it's really powerful, because it more authentically mimics the way we learn in the real world. When you're learning to walk or talk, what you're really doing is trying lots of things every single minute and getting immediate feedback on whether or not you did it correctly. That's formative assessment. It's assessment while you're trying to learn something. So formative assessment is very powerful, and I would say it's universally a good idea. The difficulty is it's very difficult to do in a regular classroom. When you have one teacher and 20 or 30 students, how do you have that one teacher give all those students individual feedback on what they're doing wrong all at the same time? It just can't be done. And a college classroom is even more difficult. You have one professor and 200 or 300 students. How can they give 200 students feedback all at the same time? It's just not possible. That's why we talk about this in an educational technology class. Educational technology can help us with that. Educational technology can develop tools to give students individual feedback on what they're doing while they're doing it. We can use artificial intelligence to give every single student some individualized feedback on what they did wrong on that latest iteration all at the same time, even if everyone is doing something different. So that's why we talk about it in this class. So in this lesson, we'll talk about what formative assessment is, why it's powerful, and how we can develop educational technologies that help facilitate it. Here, we're going to talk about metacognition. Metacognition is thinking about thinking, or knowing what you know. It's really any thought process, where the target of the thought process, is actually inside you're own brain. So it might be thinking about what you're thinking about, or knowing what knowledge that you have. Now, a key type of metacognition, in learning, is called self-regulated learning.-Self regulated learning is the process by which a person plans out how they're going to learn something, monitors how learning is going, evaluates it, and then adjusts it accordingly. Self-regulated learning is really the goal that we want students to reach. We want them to become self-regulated learners because it's more about active learning rather than passive learning. It's about driving your own learning process as opposed to being a passive consumer of whatever information is presented to you. Now a key part of self-regulated learning is the mindset that one has towards learning. There are a lot of people out there that think they have a fixed amount of intelligence, that they are as smart as they'll ever be, and if they can't do something it's just because they aren't smart enough. That's not really an accurate way of framing intelligence. Intelligence is much more something that we can work at, we can grow through. Through effort and intensive study we can actually get smarter, effectively. Now I think everybody has that one book that they recommend that everybody read and mine is actually on this topic. Carol Dweck is a Stanford psychologist who spent decades working on motivation and learning, especially at the lower, middle and high school levels. And what she found was that ability does not necessarily predict success at the next level. But the mindset that one has towards learning and towards intelligence is really the chief predictor at whether or not someone will be successful at the next level. She found that those people who recognized that failure is just an opportunity to learn, as opposed to a referendum on one's own intelligence, are really the ones who succeed at the next level. So I highly recommend picking up this book, especially for both designing educational technology and for self-improvement. So in this lesson what we're going to talk about is really how to use technology to facilitate metacognitive development. We'll talk about how technology can give a kind of open-ended and self-driven opportunities to students that would be difficult in a regular classroom. Typically classrooms are driven by a lesson and a lecture and it can be difficult to give students the opportunity to drive what they're learning In time. But through technology, we can build more open-ended environments in which the learner is put into the driver's seat. And they get to control what they learn and when, and how, and learn at that process of monitoring it and planning it, and evaluating it. So we'll talk about how technology can really facilitate meta-cognative development I'm here with Jarrod Parkes who's a course developer at Udacity. And Jarrod thanks so much for talking to us today. Thanks for having me. We're going to talk a little bit about student motivation in classes and how technology can help. So Jarrod I'll start by asking, what kind of shaped do you as far as motivation is concerned, back when you were a learner in school? So what were your experiences with the role of motivation in education? Right, I had kind of a lucky situation. I'm a twin, so for me a lot of my motivation I think was always driven out of that natural sense of competition that I had with my twin brother, James. But from more of what the school was providing for me, I think I was always motivated by doing well. It was always stressed that you want to do well, so I tried to get to the top. And for me that seemed to be enough, at least to get me through grade school. And then as learning got deeper and the topics got more difficult, I had to kind of dig. I think more inside of myself to find the time and give the commitment to the topics that you had to be successful. I think you're echoing something really important, also is that, and there's actually research that backs this up. Is that early in education, students might adopt a real focus on some of those external motivators. And it sounds like you're commenting on that, early on it was about doing well overall. What was your definition of doing well back then, you remember? It was very much get As in class. My parents made it known to my brother and I at a very early age that we had to do well in order to be able to get to college. So that for me was a goal from fifth grade and on, something like that. And so I think there's research that confirms that early on many students adopt this kind of external mindset about learning. Which isn't inherently a bad thing because there are powerful external motivators out in the world. And there are very important reasons to learn well and do well. But what about the tension between, I think you mentioned this as far as later in your career. The tension between being motivated by something out in the world and being motivated by something more internal to yourself? I think that started to arise when I got to points where I started to question were the grades that I was getting in class and receiving. Truly reflective of how I felt I was learning or how I felt, just self worth and value. I feel like I'm trying hard, but I dont know if I want to commit the amount of time it takes to get what is considered an A, a high mark in this class. Whereas, I feel I'm still learning effectively and this is just added pressure. And so, I think intrinsically, in and of myself, I started to think about why am I learning? Why do I want to learn? I'm actually having fun doing this. And then I started to go after and learn and look at topics that excited me. Not just because somebody told me this is what I should be interested, but because I chose them for myself. Yeah, it's interesting because you're commenting on that. I think a lot of students experience that same thing where they find something that they're very passionate about and they end up pursuing it. But it seems like it would be really great if we could actually bring that into the classroom. At least in my opinion, there's nothing inherent about the classroom that means students can't be internally motivated by something a teacher gives them. It's that I got it from a teacher doesn't make it, so that I'm never going to be personally interested in it. It's just something happens in school that often prevents that from arising. So do you have any thoughts on, either from your personal experience or what we as educational technology analysts can do. To try and create that more personal motivation, even when we're designing well-formed interventions. I think you have to keep adaptivity at one of the highest priorities. I think the classroom in a lot of ways is for a lot of people, can be very rigid. Because of that, when they find something interesting, maybe they feel silenced or they don't feel like they can go and explore this topic. And it's going to help them getting hired or finishing school and getting hired whatever. And so being able to identify when students have something that they are very interested in and then allowing them to pursue that. And still somehow maybe tie it back to whatever the universal message of this class or the learning points. That's something that I think would be very beneficial. So you're saying it would be good to have a class where students can kind of be given a bunch of topics to explore. And choose which topics they'd like to explore and when and how. Mm-hm. Yeah. As long as they're, I think, dense enough and they're ones that actually would merit a good amount of work. And you can make those calls as an educator. Then yeah, that would be a great type of class. Those were the kind of classes I enjoyed. So, Jerry would enjoy this class, so. You don't know this, but that's exactly the motivating principle behind the design of this class. We've given the students a library of information, such as this interview. To explore and kind of find what's the most interesting and pertinent to them. Oh, great, yeah. So, but what about the role of technology in all this? It seems like, everything we've talked about so far is kind of general to education, the classroom as a whole. What can technology do specifically to help us with this? Facilitating students' personal motivation in these topics. One thing I think about is how technology nowadays has access to so much information. And because they have access to that information, when students are being, we're collecting responses from students and we're analyzing their feedback, their answers or whatever. We can look at those things and make choices about or give them recommendations about things they may become interested in. So the technology is what would allow us to adapt where it may be more difficult in a traditional classroom for professor to give that individual attention to each student. I think that's something that technology could definitely do. I agree, I think that technology also has the benefit of making a lot of these resources always very easily available. That in the past, it was a case of if I wanted to start your class where students can choose their own topic. I could say, today in class, you're going to go to the library, find an encyclopedia, find a book and research it yourself. But that means that students have 15 minutes to one day to do all the research and find their own direction, which is isn't really enough time. But now we can say you have all semester, you have the internet. You have as much time as you're willing to invest. You can go in any direction you want without ever leaving your office. Right. So I think that's really powerful in making that available. Do you have any thoughts on the role of artificial intelligence in this? I don't know if you have any experience with how AI can kind of help personalize this and if you don't, I'll comment on it, but. I don't have any deep experience, but I think AI systems can be the ones responsible for finding those things that and making those recommendations for students. So I think that might be a good application. Yeah, a friend of mine is actually working on a project kind of like that that's a digital assistant for research like this. That if you're working for something, it can actually connect you out to ongoing research in the field or similar ideas. Or just help you kind of build a broader knowledge of what you're researching without having to find everything on your own. Mm-hm. So and do you have any final thoughts for our students who might be worried about facilitating motivation in the technological devices that they build? Yes. My recommendation is for any roadblocks that you ever run into from a motivation standpoint is to have friends. Have people around you that support you. I think every time that I reached one of those blocks in my life, that's what helped pull me through, more than anything else. That actually speaks, I think to something we've commented elsewhere in this class on as well. Is that when we're building technology, we need to be able to facilitate interaction among students. It's very tempting to treat my system as the student and whatever I'm building. But in reality, it should be the student, their friends, their teachers, their mentors, things like that. And my device which is facilitating interaction amongst all of them. It's almost the intrinsic motivation that grows out of us, as well as the extrinsic motivators. I think it's driven by people, it's a people-based thing. Absolutely. Okay, well thank you so much for talking to us today. Absolutely. And thanks all for watching. So I'm here with Cameron Pittman, who is a course developer here at Udacity. He's going to talk to us a little bit about metacognition. So thank you for talking to us today. Yeah, happy to be here. So the first thing I want to ask is, the reason why I'm talking to Cameron about metacognition is that Udacity has started a new type of debate class they call R&R. And can you tell us a little bit about what that is? Sure, R&R is not a replacement for the classroom. It's just another way to engage students. Our classes are essentially a series of, as you guys probably well know, videos, questions, problems, projects, and some short readings. And that's actually where we're extending the classroom here with R&R. R&R is actually, I think it stands for reading and reflection. It's essentially a set of topics online or blog posts or news articles or any kind of writings online that are relevant to the course. And what we simply do is ask students to read them and then reflect in the forums. It's just another way of trying to engage students and introducing them to material that's out in the world. So it's worth noting that when they started the R&R way of doing classes here at Udacity I didn't know about it. And they did it in parallel to me designing this class. And so this R&R approach is very much what we do in this class where it's all about readings and going out and finding your own resources and reflecting on them and sharing them with classmates. But something I'd ask for both these students in this class as well as for general understanding of the way this is used, is this for everybody, or is this a kind of approach that's specifically for people who don't learn from traditional methods, that don't like to learn from lectures, that they need an alternate way? Or is this the better way to learn for everybody? I would never couch something as a better way to learn for everybody because everybody learns differently. There are different modes of learning. Some people learn better visually, auditorially, or in-discussionally. Okay, that's not a word. [LAUGH] But anyways, so this is just another way of introducing students to material, that they wouldn't normally see. And I think this is a great method, because as a developer, which is what we're training people to become, you have to be up to date with current news. You have to be up to date with the current thoughts on whatever technology it is you're working with. And R&R is just a great way to reflect that. So, its not replacing anything and I don't think its necessarily a better way to learn. It's just another way of introducing students to the world around them. I like it a lot because it doesn't just teach you the content that you're learning about. It doesn't teach you how to design a form or how to write a line of code. But it also teaches you that in the future when you encounter a problem that you don't know how to solve, how would you go out and solve it? And that's almost more important. It's one thing to teach someone something but it's something else to teach them how to solve their future problems. And not to mention it also introduces students to developer communities. You start meeting other people or seeing other people who are interested in the same technologies and it gives students a chance to get involved. Yeah, absolutely. So since this is an Ed Tech class though, one question I would have is, is technology, aside from us being in computer science, so let's imagine for a second we're doing R&R in an English class or something like that, how does technology actually help with this? Is it a core part of the R&R process, or is it just that, because we're teaching computer science here at Udacity we tend to use technology along with this. Well, I think technology in this case is just a better way to do paperwork. [LAUGH] [LAUGH] You know, you could easily do this in the class. Millions of teachers probably have. You assign a reading to your students, you get them to read. And that's essentially all we're doing here. And technology just makes it easier. It's not necessarily better or worse, it's just easier and more accessible to students. Yeah, it sounds like it introduces a more rapid feedback cycle because instead of having to go to the library, find an encyclopedia, read about it, go home and realize I read the wrong thing, I can go through that cycle in a minute instead of in a day. So it really lets them go through that more often. So if we have any students in the class who want to apply an approach like this, an R&R style approach, or an approach that really fosters metacognition in their project that they develop for this class, do you have any suggestions for what they should think about while they're doing it? Yeah, sure. So one of the nice things about R&R is it lets students go at their own pace, and gives them control over what they're learning, and then what they do with what they're learning. Because they're simply reflecting on it, and maybe they hate the article, maybe they love the article, maybe they want to share it, maybe they don't. But either way they have the power to do all these things. And that actually is a huge part of learning is having the power to control what you're learning and how you're learning and what you're going to do with what you've learned. And so any kind of tool that gives students that kind of power is obviously a good way to go. Great. Well, thank you so much for talking to us. Yeah. Happy to be here. If you've watched any of the other interviews I've done here at Udacity you'll notice that I'm in the other chair today, and that's because we're talking about a topic that is very important to me. My dissertation research was on using an intelligent tutoring system in an exploratory learning environment to teach students meta-cognition. And meta-cognition is really the thing I'm ultimately most interested in, so I'll be talking about that today. Also, Jason has again agreed to give me my questions for this little interview. All right David, let's get started. Why do you have so much interest in meta-cognition? So the main reason I have a lot of interest in meta-cognition is that there's actually research, that you've probably covered so far in this lesson, that shows that meta-cognition is the chief determinant in students success going forward. That if there's on thing we can teach them, that will really ensure that they're successful in later academic career, it's meta-cognition. It's thinking about how do I learn, what are the best processes for me? How do I monitor that when I'm trying to learn something if I'm struggling. Instead of just continuing to just struggle and assume that there's something wrong with me if I can't learn this material. How can I actually reflect on this, and say what is it about this that I'm struggling with, and how can I adjust for that? So to really treat the learning process as a first class object. Really think about that as a part of the learning, that the process is something that I can control, that I get to drive my own learning. And this is really important because, it's kind of that old principle, if you teach a man to fish, he'll eat for a lifetime. If you teach a person to learn, they'll learn for a lifetime. Many times in education we're focused on teaching students some material, and the material is very important and I would never insult that. But if you teach a student to learn in general, that's really going to help them later in their life, and that's the main reason I'm most interested in meta-cognition. I think that philosophically, it's what really determines students success, and there's also empirical evidence that says that. A student's mindset towards learning is what will determine whether or not they're successful at new things that they come across. Oh wow. That's pretty powerful. Yeah. What are some of the main challenges in teaching students about meta-cognition? So the main challenge is that meta-cognition by its very definition is inside the head. It's I'm thinking about my own thinking. So the thinking is inside the head, but at least when I'm thinking about like the cameras that are in front of me, I can think about how they work. I can reason about them physically. I can reach out. I can adjust them. I can manipulate them. When I'm thinking about thinking, I'm thinking about something that's inside my head as well, and so if I'm teaching somebody algebra, I can look at the output of what they're doing. But with meta-cognition, I'm not looking explicitly on the output of their meta-cognition. I'm looking at the output of the thought that was reasoned over, so there's a couple layers of separation away, we're talking so much about thinking about thinking, it's a little bit hard to even have the conversation. [LAUGH] That's part of the reason why it's so difficult, is that, what are we thinking about and when. So that's part of the difficulty. But because we're not operating on something that we can see, we're kind of feeling around in the dark, and we're trying to figure out what a person is really thinking underneath the hood, so to speak. Can I look at the things that you're actually outputting, or saying, or writing, and use that to infer something about the meta-cognition that went into it, and it's very difficult. And it's difficult for human tutors, for AI tutors it's even more difficult, because they don't have the benefit of all the information that we have. They don't have the nat's of the human empathy that I think a lot of teaching meta-cognition to another person is that you're a person, I'm a person. To a certain extent, I can put myself inside your mind, and I can kind of re-simulate that. Computers have no natural ability to do that. Right. So even just building in human empathy, or human thought, or human, approaches to problems, is part of being able to teach them to do, to teach meta-cognition. So yeah, the main reason it's difficult is what we're operating on is invisible, and it's not easy to manipulate something you can't see. For sure. Yeah. How can technology foster meta-cognitive development? So even the main thing that we first have to wrestle with is exactly the same issue that I mentioned before. The main challenge to facilitating meta-cognitive development is making the invisible visible. Right Taking what's invisible inside the brain and putting it out on the page, putting it in software, somewhere like that. And so the way we can do that, is by structuring the environment in which this development takes place, such that students have to make that explicit. So one way we can do it is by asking them to do what we call think-aloud protocol, which is where they go through an activity and just think aloud about it. It's not the best approach because research has shown that, when I ask you, while you're doing whatever you're about to do, tell me what you're thinking? It actually changes the way you think, and so I don't get at the root of what you would really think if you weren't actively reflecting on it. But at the same time it gives you a learning experience of making your own thought process explicit, which is very valuable that even sometimes just making students aware of what they're thinking. Even if we're not entirely sure what they're actually thinking, just forcing them to reflect on it can be the most valuable learning experience of all. But in my dissertation research, what I ended up doing was taking a certain part of the activity that students were completing and asking them to output that to the page. So it was constructing theories to explain natural phenomenon, and part of that is why do I believe what I believe. That's part of meta-cognition, is reflecting on the internal reasons that underly my beliefs. And so we took that and basically said, take whatever it is that makes you believe what you're currently believing, and put it on the page. Code it in a certain way as a kind of classification system of saying this is an example of this kind of belief, this is an example of this kind of belief, and put it out there. So we're making explicit, something about the meta-cognitive process. It's not always easy. Actually, it's never easy, but it's not always impossible, but for certain domains, we can do some things where students are asked to make their meta-cognitive process explicit. And in fact, it's something that we do, I think, really strongly in this class, or at least we try to, which is take the way you think about the course material and externalize it. Externalize it into context to your own problems. Externalize it in the context of the solution that you'd like to develop, and share that with your classmates. And in that way, you're sharing a little bit about how you approach the problem, and how you're thinking about a problem with others to get feedback on your meta-cognition a little bit more explicitly. Again, not easy, and I don't think I could even begin to imagine right now how I might design an AI agent to be a TA, or an instructor for this class. [LAUGH] But maybe several years from now, based on a project that someone in this class starts to develop, we might start to see a meta-cognitive agent that's more than just a tutor, or guide. It's actually kind of a partner, or a mentor in an environment like this. It can mimic some of the things that it wants you to learn to do, which I think is really the best approach for teaching meta-cognition, is to demonstrate it. To show, this is how I would think about this problem that you might want to think about this way, so. That's fascinating. Thank you again, Jason, for interviewing me on another topic. Of course, dude. And thank y'all. This section is on problem based learning. Problem based learning is a constructionist learning strategy, where the learning process is really motivated by some central organizing problem. Now, when we say problem here, we're not really talking about something small like a little math problem. We're talking about something a little bit bigger and a little bit open ended. So in ecology, we might have the problem of figuring out why a certain species went extinct or in medicine you may have the problem of given some symptoms and given some family history, let's diagnose this patient. So there are these central motivating problems behind the learning process. The power of problem based learning is that it really teaches students at two different levels. On the one hand, it teaches them the content knowledge that they need to know. To diagnose that disease, you would need to know a list of diseases and you would need to know which symptoms correspond to which diseases. So there's content knowledge at play, but problem based learning doesn't just teach the content knowledge. It also teaches that content knowledge in the context of how it actually would be used in the real world. So in the ecology example, it's one thing to know the biological principles and the genetics and things like that that go into that organism. But its something else to understand the overall idea of constructing an explanation of what happened in that system, evaluating that explanation against evidence, and revising it accordingly. So the power of problem based learning is it not only teaches students content knowledge, but it teaches them content knowledge in the context of how it would be used out in the real world. And this is very motivating for students as well, they get to see that if I went into a career in this, this is actually what I would be doing. This isn't just some material that's been whitewashed to use in a classroom environment. This is actually what people do in the real world when they work in these fields. So it's a great way of motivating learning and it's also a great way of teaching. Here we're talking about project based learning. And if you're in this class, you're already familiar with project-based learning, because this entire class is project-based learning. We built it on that foundation. Project-based learning is a pedagogical technique where students learn through big long-term projects. Sometimes somewhat open-ended, as opposed to through small written assignments or quizzes or tests. There are a lot of real benefits to project-based learning and one of my favorites is the idea of authenticity. Typically, when we go into the actual fields that we're teaching about, what were our work is, is actually pretty project-based. We do big long-term projects, rather than small tasks each day. And so by teaching students using project-based learning, we're not only teaching them the content we want them to know. But we're also teaching them what it's like to actually be a part of that field. And similarly, personalization is a really big benefit of this as well. Typically, when students do a project, they actually feel some personal connection to what they've produced. And some of the projects we've done are other OMS classes we've seen students really develop the projects and pursue them after the semester is over. Some of them have gone so far as to name their projects or give them personalities. There's really a personal connection between the student and the project that they develop. The longer term and more open-ended nature of the project also means that we can do some things to facilitate real learning. And the more important learning strategies that we want students to develop. Things like planning what they're going to do, monitoring how it's going and adjusting it accordingly if it's not going very well. Oftentimes in traditional education, by the time a student recognizes that what they're doing isn't working. It might be too late to fix it, if it's a test or a quiz or something. But with projects, the longer term nature of them gives students time to recognize what I've been working on isn't really working. How can I evaluate it? How can I recover? So there are a lot of benefits of project-based learning. The difficulty is that they aren't always easy to implement in a regular classroom. Projects are bigger and they're open-ended and they're very personal to students. And that makes it very difficult to give students feedback on them, it makes it difficult to grade projects. How do you grade two students that did very, very different projects if it's a very open-ended project? Presents a lot of difficulty, but that's where technology can really play a role. Technology gives us an environment in which we can allow students to produce some open-ended projects. And have built in functionalities to develop their ideas and construct whatever they want to construct. And through some artificial intelligence, we can actually start to build in some of that feedback directly into the environment. We can give them feedback right in the context of what they're doing without requiring a teacher to be consistently monitoring what they're doing. So technology can really bring project-based learning to life. And so we'll talk about the different ways in which project-based learning can be done and how technology can help. I'm sitting here with Andy Brown, who's one of the people who heads up a lot of our education initiatives here at Udacity. And in fact, not long ago, Andy was kind of lead on transitioning a lot of what we do at Udacity to a more project-based approach, to have students completing projects as part of their experience and learning different skills. So, thank you so much for talking to me today, Andy, about project-based learning. Yeah, thanks for doing this. So the first thing I want to ask, and I think this comes up a lot when we're dealing with teachers who want to do a project-based approach, but are very stretched for resources. Is that project-based learning, at least in my opinion, is much more difficult to implement in a classroom than some traditional instruction of just lecturing or giving material straight away. Is it worth the extra effort, and if so why? Yes, it's absolutely worth doing project-based learning. And now that there's all sorts of free resources online there's a lot of free time, potentially, for instructors to be spending their time coming up with and helping their students as they go through these project activities. There's lots of great explanations, lots of great sort of static resources out there that, they're going to solve a lot of the sort of, what am I going to say? How am I going to explain this topic? And, in fact to me that's not the interesting part of the teaching. The interesting part of the teaching is how am I going to shepherd this person along as their brain transforms, and that's best done through an authentic project. So, yes it's totally worth it. It is hard. But it's getting easier. But it's getting easier. Yeah. This is your job if you've signed up to it. Exactly, I think I've always had the idea that you just referred to of basically building a course around all these awesome free materials that are available online. Because there's so much out there that wasn't out there before, and that led to this class which is an entire class based largely around the materials that are already free online. Instead of trying to reinvent the wheel and represent things that have already been presented very well, let's just see if we can leverage it and spend our time on kind of the more student-focused, mentoring and feedback. Speaking of feedback, so one thing that's very difficult I think in project-based learning is assessment. When, you know, I have a bunch of students who all do the same math problem. I know what the correct answer is. I know what the steps are. And, it's very easy for me to go through and say, you screwed up step two, you screwed up step four. But so what. What do you know when you've done that? Yeah, that's true. But yeah assessment in projects is more difficult, isn't it? It's a little more open ended. It is but it's getting more towards what you actually want to be measuring. So yes it's very easy to measure my, some students ability to factor ten polynomials correctly. It's just not a very interesting measurement. Every now and then you'll find things that can be assessed that way. Or really it's very important to know these facts before you can move on. But I'm guessing that if you as an educator ask yourself, what do I really want? How do I want to change my students with this learning experience I'm crafting? You'll find it's really hard to phrase that in terms of some multiple choice questions or anything like that. And this is especially a danger when you're doing online project based learning. Because multiple choice questions are by far the easiest things to do online. Right, wrong, tally up a score. You have a little green progress bar and it works. But that experience just is never going to be even close to what you can get if you try to do the project based learning. Yeah, exactly. And I think that we have, many of our courses, not our courses, but courses that are currently available online, or built around these multiple choice tests. But you have exactly that, where often times they have repeatability built into them. Which is great, because you learn from your failures. You get problems wrong, you move forward and learn. But when you have only a small set of possible answers, what you're really learning is that c isn't the answer to that question. You're not learning the deeper understanding of what's going on there. But for a teacher who has dealing with, for example in our class, possibly a 100 different projects, all of which need feedback. Are there any strategies to how to give feedback in such a way that students can actually improve on it while doing the project as opposed to just finding out at the end that they already failed. Yeah, if you can bake feedback into the nature of the project itself. So an example for building an HTML, a webpage let's say. If you don't know anything about programming, sorry! If you're building a webpage and I say build a webpage that looks like this and I give you a little image that looks like a webpage. The feedback is pretty natural, the feedback is like well it doesn't look like that anymore, you don't need the instructor to come tell you that, the student knows it. And then if you can set up systems of feedback within students, you'd be amazed the things that can happen when you do the terrifying thing of stepping back as an instructor and just letting your students screw up and sort of screw up together. That can be a really amazing learning experience. There has to be some constraints placed on that, but you can do it really well. So, yeah, if you find yourself staying up until 4 AM, frantically grading 100 projects, it's probably not ideal, and you're probably killing yourself. [LAUGH] So, you're probably not giving the best feedback to your students that you could, because nobody could do that And there's probably a more creative solution that will be just as good. Yeah, it sounds like there are a lot of ways that we can go about that, like giving exemplars that a student can, on their own, compare their assignment to some exemplar. And see where it's different and where it's similar, maybe building in some automated assessment through some artificial intelligence. Not just that question was wrong, but something a little bit deeper about the real nature of learning. And then let the peers give them feedback on it. I think we often learn best from people who are going through the same struggles that we're going through. But you mentioned doing this in the context of web design. I think you're exactly right that we often talk about project based learning, the context of computer science because professionally, what we do in computer science is mostly projects. What about some other fields like accounting or nursing or, can't think of another field. But other fields where, it's not necessarily a project based on what you actually do. Can project based learning be used there? Or is there something that can be done that kind of perpetuates the same philosophical underpinnings of project based learning. I think those fields are still project based, actually. I think. I think we've overloaded this word, project. In computer programming, project can be what you call the thing you're working on on the side, this cool webpage you're building. In project-based learning, the word project means something very specific. It means an authentic task, an extended task, so it won't be completed in a single day. It's sort of loosely defined, so there's room for creativity. And the nurse who is monitoring my blood glucose levels, that's a project. The accountant who's doing my taxes, if anyone who wants to do project-based learning and do my taxes, that'd be good. [LAUGH] But that's a project, right? That's an authentic thing. Like balancing the books on this company, that's an authentic thing. So I think projects are there, if you can find them. Yeah. And if they're not, a computer's probably doing that job already. That's true. That makes a lot of sense that we, you know, in pure sense we talk about projects because it's something where I create the idea, I implement it, I execute it and I deliver it. But you're exactly right, a project can be anything on going. It's got some investment in it, but doesn't necessarily have to be completely open to whatever the student want's to specify. So, this is an educational technology class and so we're really looking for the ways that we can use technology to enhance education. Maybe the learning process or maybe education as a broader community. So specifically on the technology front, are there things that technology lets us do in project based learning that are difficult to do in person? Let me start by saying the things that technology tempts us to do that we would never do in person. And that's the things like the radio button quizzes. The sort of like, oh, I know how to do a project, and I'm going to have 10 check box quizzes that I'll ask about how much would you put in this box of my tax return if you're doing the account in the example. That's not authentic. Nobody thinks it's authentic. It's not fun. It's not a good product base learning. It's a very, like, superficial substitute. And, it's really tempting to do because it's so much easier than anything else. The things that the Internet give you. The Internet gives you scale and it gives you access, so. I mean it gives you the chance to have people from across the country, across the world, working together on a task at any hour. That's pretty cool. Yeah. But, it's a lot of work to set up, and there's a lot of ways it can go wrong. [LAUGH] So, [LAUGH] I mean, there's tradeoffs for sure, but still, it's a better way of learning, if you can find a way to make it work. Yeah. Makes sense, and I think that technology gives us a lot of ways to, exactly what you're saying, make it a little bit more open. That it's not necessarily something that has to happen within the confines of the one hour lecture that we have set aside for this class three days a week. It's something that can happen at three o'clock in the morning when I just happen to be online and a student asks a question. Or you know there's a project to review and I can watch their progress live which I really have difficulty doing in person. At Georgia Tech we actually have some classes that have tried to implement that approach. Where students will come to a lab and there's no lectures or anything like that, but there is set-aside class time that they're expected to be there. And the idea is sit there, work on your project, and someone will be in the room to give you feedback. But that's a pretty big pragmatic constraint of they have nine hours a week where they're required to be in the studio working on a project. During that time. And now we also have a person who has to be there during that time, whereas the Internet allows us to do that a little bit more asynchronously. Because it makes the classroom unlocked 24/7. So do you have any final thoughts for our students who are both engaging in project-based learning in this class, and may also be trying to develop tools that facilitate project-based learning? Yeah well, if you're going through this class, which is itself an example of project-based learning, reflect on what's going well and what's not. There's learning to be done just in that. When you go on to try to do project-based learning in your own classroom. It's hard. You're not going to get it right to begin with. The bad version will still probably be better than if you hadn't tried, but it's going to feel chaotic and sort of out of control really, out of your control. And that's sort of the nature of project-based learning, is the student's gain more autonomy, which is a lot of the reason why we do it. So stay reflective. Next year will be better. And the next year will be better than that. And this is how we improve at our craft. This is how I justify what I said at the beginning of this course. Which is that there are some things that we'll do in this course that will fail miserably. See now I have an expert saying that's okay. So. Thank you so much for talking with us today, Andy, and for your perspective. And thank you all. Social learning is a learning theory that puts very explicit emphasis on the interaction and collaboration among people during the learning process. It was derived from Albert Bandura's work and just like Jean Piaget suggested, that authentic experiences are really important for developing a real understanding, or constructing a real understanding of some topic, Bandura suggested that part of that authenticity is the authentic social interactions that happen during learning. That we learn together and we develop our concepts of different material together. And it's really important to preserve that in any learning environment, but this presents a real problem for online learning. Because in online learning, we lose the most accessible device for facilitating this kind of social learning. And that's the physical classroom. In a physical classroom we can actually talk to one another, interact face to face. Online we don't have that as much. So how do we develop that for the online environment? So this really brings up two questions. First of all, how does the loss of that physical environment, that physical classroom impact online learning? How does it change what students learn? Does it actually hurt us? And secondly, how do we develop devices, develop technologies, that can actually resolve this issue. Assuming that it does damage the learning if we don't have access to this kind of interpersonal collaboration and interaction? Can we develop devices that actually help alleviate that, that facilitate that interaction online? Now I'm obviously very biased, because I work on this program and I love this program. I think that with technology, not only can we develop ways to overcome this difficulty. Honestly, I think in the online environment, we can develop technologies that make it even better. One of my favorite experiences in this program has been that, I can logon to the class forum and interact with ten students in five minutes. And then come back an hour later and do it again. And that's a level of interaction, a level of collaboration that I could never have in a physical classroom. And so, I really think that with the right effort and the right designs, we can create and leverage social learning in a way online, that actually goes beyond what we can do in person. So I'm here with Courtney Drake, who's a product manager here at Udacity. So thank you for talking to us today. Absolutely. So the first thing I wanted to ask was that, there's this perception for online education that's very disconnected and impersonal. And does that necessarily have to be the case? I don't think it does. And I would say that's something that we have really focused on. Udacity is the kind of research and our experience with students, that social learning is more effective than not social learning. And so that's something that we have really actually invested in quite a bit, especially this year. I think the challenge with social learning is that you still want to preserve some of the core benefits of online learning, like self-pacing and students' ability to kind of have their learning schedule be flexible around their life schedule. So those kind of butt up against the ability to connect students and have them really build deep connections with each other, when their are not really in a synchronous environment. I think those are some of the challenges. We focus on a couple of different ways of integrating, Interaction, and collaboration into our online learning platform. The first way is through forums. And through forums, we've really focused on, how can we help students help each other, and help them answer each other's questions, and share with each other, and share with a broader community of students. But it turns out that it hasn't really been enough for students to feel like they are in a community. Especially,say, when it's a nano degree community that 500 plus students, it's really hard to feel like I"m connected to those other 499 other students. So we've moved more recently in addition to forums, is small learning communities that we're calling teams. So when students sign up for a nano degree, this is kind of rolling out progressively. They get matched up with a group of ten to 12 other students who they then have a chat room with through the course of their nano degree experience. And what we're hoping will kind of happen through that is they build a personal connection with those other students. And that's kind of their first point of contact if they have a question, is run it by my team members. If we can answer it ourselves awesome, and if not then we're posting to the forums or going to coach support to ask for support from Udacity. And we're hoping that will kind of help with three problems around social learning, one is accountability, is feeling like there are other people who care about my progress, and if I drop off that doesn't just effect me, that effect other people. The other is just a level of engagement. I don't feel like I'm alone. And the third piece is if I'm helping other people and I'm teaching other people, I actually learn more that way. So having those connections where we can kind of have a back and forth chat exchange, can actually deepen what I'm learning if I'm the one who's the helper. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I think that exactly what you just described is something we try and create in our OMS classes, which we do it on piatza right now at least. And I think we exactly try and create that, is a lot of interaction among students and very frequent interactions, so that I feel like there is a community here, present right now, and if I write something I'm going to get a response. Yeah. Pretty quick and pretty targeted to what I'm talking about. Another interesting thing that happens in the OMS community is that the largest social community around it is actually a student run community. It's run by several students who created the Google Plus community. And I think that creates a lot of interesting ownership. Because it's student run it's not this kind of thing that I'm being handed and being asked to play by your rules. Is there anything we can do when designing online technologies or educational technology in general to kind of allow room for these kind of student driven communities to emerge? Yeah, so when we've experimented with how do we help students create small communities. And when we have just kind of let them have a free for all, we found that they don't, it's like some students start it, and the really driven students will start smaller communities. And it's really awesome when they do that, and we've seen some great interaction. But the norm is not, I'm going to start a community or I'm going to join a community on my own. And so we've actually felt like we've needed to give students more structure to form those communities. That's just why we have facilitated this way of having them join a team from the very beginning. We say, tell us you're availability. We will put you in a team. And then let them go from there. So we felt like we actually needed to create that structure. And I guess we'll see if, how the ownership plays out there. And even when we've experimented with that, saying we're going to actually put you in teams together. We found that, unless one student really steps up into some kind of leadership role, they kind of fall flat. And so, where we've said, okay, how do we scale really solid community interaction if we don't necessarily know who those students are who are going to step up into a leadership role? And so, they actually see it the idea for a guides program, is what we're calling it. Where we're enlisting students who are farther ahead in nano degree programs, who have graduated, to come back and be a guide for our teams. So, they're coming to weekly sessions with those teams. And they're engaging in chat with those teams throughout the week, to really help them foster a sense of community, and get to a point where they're really gelling and can carry themselves forward on their own. So that's something we've just started. It's pretty cool, because it is actually students who are coming back into that fray. And it's actually really nice kind of a motivational piece, to kind of say, look at this other student who is in the same place I was three months ago. And look at all they know. And maybe they even have a job already that I want to get. Eventually. So it's a nice piece of motivation, and it's also a way for us to kind of have feet on the ground, know what's going on. And make sure that those communities are healthy and strong. That actually sounds very similar to what we do in the EOS program, because what you describe is very similar to TAs. When we solicit next semester's TAs from this semester's students. And I think it works really nicely when we have a big group of very, very good students who are passionate about helping. Yeah. Who aren't just, you know, crossing an item of a to-do list, but really enjoy helping out their fellow students. Yeah. Perhaps, one of the most inspiring things about the LMS program is that we see a lot more of those students who want to help each other and want to come back and work on it and contribute to the class. So yeah, it's been very inspiring [INAUDIBLE] work nicely. Yeah. So one thing I've noticed also is that we have a stereotype that online education is impersonal, disconnected. And then, like you just said, that there are ways we can actually compensate for that. Mm-hm. But are there times when the online environment actually makes it even better than it could be in person, do you think? I definitely think that there are times, for sure. And one piece of it is the geographical reach that we get with online learning. Is that we have students who are connecting from all over the world. And that's a really powerful experience for someone who has never done that before. And if you're all in the same place, you don't get that kind of diversity of perspective that you do with a global learning community. So we definitely have that piece. The other piece is that if it's less synchronous and people are running on their own schedules, it means they're kind of available whenever. We've actually leveraged mbile for this with the team feature that we just released where we have mobile chat apps on both iOS and Android. So I've had this happen with my own team which I'm participating in, where I will be at a dinner or something. And I see that my team chats something. And I can just pop back in and answer a question. So they come ubiquitous. Nature of the internet, really helps students connect more frequently with each other than just if we're having a class once a week or something like that. It keeps and keeps the communication flow happening more easily. Yeah, I agree completely. I think one of my experiences being an instructor in this program has been that I can sign onto Piazza that we use for our forums right now, and in five minutes, I can interact with ten different students. Yeah. And come back an hour later and do it again. And in person you really can't have that. Right.. That frequency of interactions. That kind of, that perception is 27 available. Really changes what we can do and how often we can interact. For sure. Well thank you so much. Absolutely. Hope it help. A controlled experience is kind of the Holy Grail of scientific research. In human subjects research, a controlled experiment is where we get some participants, randomly assign them to certain conditions and then treat each condition in a different way. What we do to each condition is called a treatment and then each group of participants is called a condition. Typically we have a control condition and an experimental condition where the experimental condition is where we're trying out something that we're interested in. Controlled experiments give really, really nice generalizable and clean results, but they're also very difficult to do in education. Usually in education, we're working in real classrooms, where we don't have the power to randomly assign people. And usually we'll want to do things that last several weeks or several months. And it's difficult to control for everything when we're doing controlled experiments. But if you're interested in doing a controlled experiment, in this lesson we'll talk about the different things that you need to be aware of, different tools that are available to you, and different things you need to make sure to control for. Research in education differs from research in other areas in a number of ways, so I'm going to talk about two of them here. One of those ways is the difficulty we have controlling all the variables at play in educational research. We have interactions amongst students, amongst students and teachers, amongst the classroom, amongst the broader school culture, and we can't control for all of those things. So one of our difficulties is in understanding the full range of different variables and dynamics at play. Another interesting thing in educational research is that very often we're not just interested in understanding learning or understanding education. I think most of us get into this field because we want to improve it. That we want to help students learn better. And so when you're sitting in a classroom observing something and you recognize a reason why a student's having trouble learning some material, it's very difficult not to intervene and help them because that's why we're doing this. And yet, if our main goal is to understand learning, then we can't do that. So for these reasons among others, a field exists especially in educational research, although it exists elsewhere as well, called design-based research. Design-based research is the idea of creating something, and then using that something, that tool, that protocol, that behavior, as a probe into classroom interaction, or the learning process. What we do here is effectively build a tool that would work, if our theory of learning is accurate. For example, if we're interested in individualized feedback. If we believe that students learn better from individualized feedback, we would create a tool that uses individualized feedback, or gives students individualized feedback. And then based on whether or not that tool actually improves learning, we would reflect back on our original theory. If the tool gives students individualized feedback and they don't improve in their understanding of some material, then we might reflect and say that theory that I used to justify that tool was actually false. I don't have any evidence to defend the idea that that's useful. But then if that tool actually does work, we would say, because I developed a tool that improved individualized feedback and because students learned as a result, my theory about individualized feedback helping learning must be accurate. So in designed-based research, we're designing tools, then using those tools as probes into the phenomenon that those tools are designed to address. Qualitative research can be a little bit difficult to pin down. It's really exploration of unstructured and naturalistic data. For example, if you are trying to develop a tool that will improve learning, you might interview some students that you hope will use your tool to understand what they struggle with and what they like. Or you might choose to observe a classroom just in its natural environment, taking notes on its various dynamics that you see at play. The downside of qualitative research is that its often not as generalizable. It might be transferable to new environments, but it doesn't generalize out to some objective truce the way we can sometimes get with quantitative data. With education we often have to use qualitative research because there are so many things going on in the classrooms, so many things going on in the learning process. That boiling down to a couple of clean numbers just loses the real magic of what's going on. So qualitative research is something we use very often in educational research because it helps us capture the real range of all the different interacting parts of the learning process. So here we'll talk about the different kinds of qualitative research. We'll talk about case studies and interviews. We'll talk about how to do them and how to make sure that the conclusions that you get out of these kinds of research are still valid and sound and useful. Quantitive research is effectively research with numbers. Those numbers could be test grades. They could be scores on some attitude inventory. They could really be any kind of objective measure of reality. The really nice thing about quantitive research is it gives us a toolbox of analyses we can use with our data to understand the conclusions of it. We could, for example, compare the means of two different groups to see if one outperformed another on some task. We could analyze how a group of students performed after getting some intervention from us to see if some measure of their performance improved. So the nice thing about quantitative research is it has a suite of tools we can use to create easy-to-understand, easy-to-defend conclusions about our research. Now two places we get a lot of quantitative data for quantitative research are controlled experiments and survey results. But those aren't the only two places. So here we'll talk about the different places we can get quantitative data for this kind of research and some of the different analyses we can use to process this research. One track you might want to take in this course is a track on research. Research is contributing to human's broader understanding of some phenomenon. Or in this class, contributing to our understanding of education and learning. For example, you might want to investigate how a particular tool changes the learning process. Or maybe you want to investigate how different demographics or backgrounds change a person's perceptions of an online program like this one. But research is very much it's own language, it's own community and in order to participate in research, there's a lot you need to understand. This is going to be a kind of a crash course in everything you need to do research, at least at the level we're looking at. We'll talk about some of the vocabulary of research. We'll talk about validity and reliability and some of the things you need to be aware of during research. And especially, we'll talk about different research designs. How to set up an experiment or set up some research that will actually answer the questions that you want to answer. Oftentimes in research, we're interested in making a change in the world and then measuring the effect that that change had. For example, we might want to give students a tool that we believe will help them learn, and then measure how well that tool actually helped them learn. But sometimes we're not ready to actually make a change in the world yet. Sometimes we just want to understand the world a little bit better. We just want to understand the nature of reality, and that can then inform some tools we design later on. Survey research is one way of doing this. In survey research we're not actually making a change to our participants. We're just asking them to report on their opinions, their perspectives, their experiences. And using the results of those surveys, we then construct an understanding of whatever population we're investigating. Survey research can be very complicated though. It's very difficult to design a good survey. It's difficult to know how to draw a representative sample out of a population of people. You might not even know what those words mean yet. So in this lesson we're going to talk about these things. We'll talk about designing good surveys, and making sure that the results you get from those surveys are actually valid and generalizable to that population. One of the criticisms that some people have of online education is they suggest that the kind of collaboration we can have in person is difficult to do online. If you're taking an online class, the teacher can say, hey, get into groups and discuss this topic or complete this activity, and you move your desks around and you move around in a lecture hall, you sit face-to-face with one another, you do something, and then you break and go back to the regular class. And some people point out that it's difficult to do that online. And even more so, things like group projects that are very valuable in traditional education can also be difficult to do when you can't meet in person. You can't gather around a table and chat about ideas or scribble on paper and share it with one another. So how can we develop technology that lets people actually collaborate on projects or learning at a distance? There's a field that tries to address this called computer-supported collaborative work. It tries to develop tools that allow people to collaborate, even when they're not colocated in the same room. But it's actually not just about online learning either. It's not just focused on developing tools that allow people to collaborate when they're not colocated. It also tries to develop tools that make collaboration easier in general. A very simple example that can be considered something of an instance of computer-supported collaborative work is Google Docs. That's a document interface that lets multiple people edit the same document at the same time. If you've done anything before Google Docs came along, you probably remember the days when you had to pass the document around amongst people and tell who was doing the edits at a given time and control for versions and do a lot of headachy things like that. But with Google Docs, we can all log in to the same document at the same time, collaborate on it, and move on. So computer-supported collaborative work is not just about learning together, not just about collaborating on learning activities. It's also about collaborating via computers in general. But in this class, we're going to really talk about how we can use technology to enable collaboration in the context of education. One kind of educational technology that people are probably very familiar with is educational games, or game based learning. These are games that are developed not just to be fun and engaging but also to teach some material. I grew up on educational games. I remember things like Super Solvers to Operation Neptune. And they're still some of my favorite games. And the real power of those games is that the learning in those games is very authentic. They find a way to take the material they want you to learn, and make a game out of that material. And that's where educational games can really have a lot of power, is when they make the real material itself come to life. But there can also be a dark side of game-based learning. If what we make into the game is not authentic to the material, if we just kind of staple on things like achievements and badges onto a learning activity. We risk creating very inauthentic motivation around that learning activity. So when we talk about game based learning we're really going to focus on how we can make the authentic parts of the material come out in an engaging and fun way. As opposed to stapling on gaming conventions just to make the activity more fun, but ultimately not make the fun authentic to the material. I'm here with Cameron Pittman, who's a course developer here at Udacity. Thank you so much for talking to me today. Yeah, happy to be here. So Cameron's here to talk about some use of games in education. And so I know you did something really cool back when you taught in high school with games in your high school classroom. So can you tell us a little bit about that? Sure. So I was teaching high school physics, and I realized I wanted a better lab simulator. It's really hard to find lab supplies sometimes and it's sometimes a lot easier to use something virtual. So I decided to use a video game, because they're easily accessible and readily available. And I wound up using the video game Portal 2 to teach physics. Portal Two has a puzzle maker in it. And this puzzle maker makes it really, really easy to make a level in about five minutes. It really is so simple that even somebody who has never even really used a computer before can figure it out. All you need to use is click and drag and maybe one or two clicks, and you actually have a full-blown level. And because the game is essentially a physics puzzle game, the game itself follows the laws of physics. So what I had my students doing is building levels in the game that were essentially experiments. And then I had them running experiments, collecting data, and then comparing the data they were collecting to what they would expect to see in the real world. Which was pretty cool. It was pretty wild. We wound up doing about ten labs in the class. We did everything from simple momentum and motion to kinetic energy, potential energy. We even did some thermodynamics in the game, which is pretty wild. Because the laws of physics hold up that well, that essentially we could throw a bunch of objects bouncing off of each other into a level, and it kind of, sort of followed the laws of thermodynamics, which is amazing. We had some other cool ones with terminal velocity. And, yeah, I just had my students comparing what they saw to what they would see in the real world. And it wound up being a really, really fun semester. Yeah, I bet. I bet they really got a kick out of that. So for any of our students who might develop games to be used in the classroom. What do you need to think about when you're developing games to the classroom? Make sure they're really a learning experience and not a distraction for the students, or just something they kind of have fun playing around with, and don't learn anything from? Sure well it's important to remember that games are a means to an end and just one tool amongst many that teachers have at their disposal. So I think the idea here is just simply make sure that the game, like the fun mechanics of the game, are teaching what you want students to learn. So I kind of saw using Portal as a way to engage students. Because immediately you're using a video game which is new and different that students aren't familiar with, normally in a classroom. But they love outside of the classroom, so I had their attention and that's half the battle in a physics class. I was really happy about that. And then the other thing that I was really happy about is that the actual mechanics of the game, reflected exactly what I wanted students to be learning at that time. So there are a number of ways that you can make an educational game just awful. For instance, you could create let's say a fighting game, a beat them up game. But instead of getting a new life at the end of the level you have to solve some math problems and then you get a new life. That's silly. That's dumb. That's just a big distraction. What you would want to do instead is create a game maybe like Dragonbox. Have you ever heard of that one? I have not, no. Oh it's awesome, it's an algebra game. And it's essentially, it looks like a card game, but it follows the laws of algebra. You have to put cards in certain places, and what you're really doing there is having fun with fractions, and cross multiplying, and it's actually a ton of fun. And it's not a distraction, whatsoever. Because the actual fun game mechanic is teaching algebra. Huh. Very interesting. Now the one thing that I feel it's worth noting though, is that there are those in the education community which, and just for full disclosure, I am one of them, that are often dubious about the usage of games in education. Mostly because many of us think that it's really important to make the material appealing in-and-of itself. That if we have to put a game on it, we've kind of already fought a losing battle. And now, when they move on to a class that doesn't use games, they're just going to tune out, because I'm used to learning being very engaging and fun because there was a game attached to it. And now I don't learn in the real world. What would you say to people like me who have that criticism about this? That doesn't sound like that applies to the Portal 2 thing but for other games, what would you say to that? I understand that concern. I love physics and I think physics in and of itself should be super interesting. Same thing with basically all science or engineering in tech. But for instance if I were learning lets say I don't know, what didn't I like in school? I liked all my classes. [LAUGH] You're not the target audience for this. [LAUGH] But I think it's just one tool of many. If it's a distraction, and if it takes away from the fun or the essence, of the material itself. You're probably just using the game wrong. It's a tool like anything else. It's just another media form. You have videos, you have books you have audio, these are all very valid and relevant media sources to learn anything and now you have games. Games are just another way to interact with material. So despite the fact that normally they are associated with fun and they could potentially be distracting. If used in the right way I think there's really nothing to fear there. I think you're getting at a really important distinction, which is between using games for education and game-ifying education, which are two very different things. When we attach these badges and things like that to education it can apply some motivators. But they're really extrinsic motivators, which might not get to the heart of what we really want to do in education. Do you have any final thoughts for our students who might be looking at doing a game for their class project here? You should go for it. It's fun. It's so much fun, and when you see kids' eyes light up, when you see them get really excited about playing a game, and feel motivated to solve the kind of problems that you want them to solve. That's awesome, it's great. It's a fantastic feeling, but at the end of the day, it's just a lot of fun. I mean, you're adding fun to the classroom. And there's really no reason that learning can't be super enjoyable for everybody involved. So I say go for it. Have a good time. Cool. Well thank you so much for talking to us. Yeah. And have a great rest of your day. Happy to be here. Thanks. Here we're going to talk about one of my favorite topics in this class, Intelligent Tutoring Systems. The idea of Intelligent Tutoring Systems is that we know students learn best when they have individualized, just in time feedback, right there in the context of the learning process. They learn best when they have someone sitting with them saying, hey, you just made a mistake on that kind of problem. Here's how to avoid that mistake for next time. Or, great job on that problem. You didn't make the mistake now that you made previously. The idea here is that, it's not that we don't want to give all the students this kind of feedback. We definitely do, but we really have difficulty doing so at scale. We can't give every single student a one on one tutor to have during their entire educational career. But with software we might be able to come close. Intelligent tutoring systems is about creating software agents, that can provide that same kind of just in time individualized feedback to students while they're learning. And because they're software agents, they're available all the time, they don't have an hourly cost associated with them. They get past a lot of the obstacles to having one-on-one tutoring during your entire educational career. So in this lesson we'll talk about intelligent tutoring systems and some of the places they've been most effective. We'll especially talk about how they exist in two different general areas. Well-formed problem domains that have a well-structured problem and a correct answer. And more poorly from problem domains where the things to learn are a little bit more fuzzy, and a little bit more difficult to observe. So if you've seen any of the other interviews that I've done here at Udacity, you'll notice that I'm now in the other chair. And the reason is that what we're talking about today is a subject near and dear to my heart. It's my dissertation topic, which is intelligent tutoring systems. So, Jason has graciously offered to interview me on this one. So. So, all right, David. Let's get started. So what got you interested in working in intelligent tutoring systems? So from the time I was 16 until throughout my PhD, I actually worked as a private tutor. So I tutored mostly high school subjects. Math, physics, things like that. And it was late in my Master's degree when I became acquainted with a field called intelligent tutoring systems. And it was basically, let's build AI agents that can do the tutoring. And the opportunities offered by them were absolutely enormous for accessibility, availability, cutting costs and being able to distribute these things to a large number of students. And so I really wanted to jump on board, plus I always joke that if anyone was going to replace me with an AI agent, it may as well be me. [LAUGH] So my initial interest was really wanting to bring the benefits of tutoring, one on one tutoring where you have real individualized feedback and individualized attention to a much broader audience of students that wouldn't be able to access it other wise. Okay. All right. What is the most exciting possibility of intelligent tutoring systems? So, we've already seen intelligent tutoring systems do some really exciting things, things like Carnegie Learning's Cognitive Tutor for algebra in high school and things like that. But what I think is the most exciting opportunity is what the Internet can do to actually scale these things up. So right now, we have students using them in classrooms and they use them as complements to their lessons, but some new initiatives are looking at actually putting that online, which is really powerful because it takes that and it makes it available to everyone. So things like IXL that do some rudimentary kind of intelligent tutoring system principles for the masses. But what's really, really exciting, and this is a little bit further out though, is the idea that, in the future, we might not just have intelligent tutoring systems that can kind of monitor what you do, and give you feedback that it already kind of knows about. Mm-hm. But intelligent tutoring systems that, themselves, can learn. So if I have a intelligent tutoring system equipped with some machine learning that can look at 100,000 students, and look at what feedback it gave to what mistakes and what actually led to future improvement, it can actually then improve itself. It can learn what teaching strategies, or what feedback, or what responses are most useful to students for certain kinds of errors. And then it might be able to start to unlock some principles of feedback or some principles of teaching that we don't even know about yet. When I was tutoring back in my earlier life, I worked with maybe ten students at a time. I've probably worked with 50 or 60 students over the course of my career. And I drew from that a lot. But 50 or 60 students, it's a decent knowledge base. But if we had an AI agent that could do it based on a 100,000 students or a million students, and experiences across the entire course of their curriculum, that would be incredibly powerful. Absolutely. And the other thing is that when I'm working with students, usually I'd get them maybe in ninth or tenth grade, and very often what I would find is that the difficulties they were having with a certain concept in math in tenth grade really went back to difficulties they had with fractions in fifth grade. Okay. And really, the ideal would be, a system like this would prevent those difficulties from arising in the first place. It would teach them well in fifth grade. But even if it didn't do that, if we had a intelligent tutoring system that worked with them throughout their entire education, it would be able to look back and say what did I teach you back in fifth grade? What difficulties did you have there? And kind of leverage those right now. I know that this student has always had a little bit of trouble with fractions. So when I come to a new lesson I know that I can anticipate giving a little bit more feedback on that. And couching it in terms of what I've told them in the past. So, that kind of long term memory, that kind of massive data bank really opens up some really exciting possibilities if we can figure out a way to harness it. Oh, wow. Absolutely. What are some of the biggest challenges facing intelligent tutoring systems? So, I think there's really two big challenges that are presently facing intelligent tutoring systems. One is the idea of invisible information. Mm-hm. So when I'm working with a student and they're working on a particular problem, I can see the steps they're writing out, that that is their first step, that is their second step. But when they make an error, I don't necessarily know what was going on inside their mind. I can kind of use what they said and use what they wrote to try and extrapolate it, but I don't have a real notion of that. That comes up in things like algebra, but it's even more important in things like science or some of the more high level classes. Ideally, we like to build intelligent tutoring systems that deal with those levels as well. When the nature of the problems themselves becomes much less formal and much less structured. And in an algebra problem, I know that there's, you know, five steps to get to the answer to this problem. But if my problem is, design a good user interface for facilitating learning sign language, I don't know what the problems are. I don't know what the steps are. I don't know how to evaluate that. And so, for those big, open-ended projects or those big things that aren't really constrained environments, that's where we have a lot of information that's invisible, because it's inside the student's own head. And that makes it very difficult for humans to operate on, let alone computers. If they can't see it, they can't operate on it. Right. And then the other issue is that there's information that we as humans can process that right now, it's difficult for agents to process. For sure. So when I'm working with a student, I can tell based on their facial expression, are they bored, are they tired, are they really excited, are they really confused, are they really frustrated. And those all inform how I react to them. If they're frustrated, I'm going to be a little more patient. If they're excited, I'm going to maybe push a little bit further or connect to some bigger topics. Right now, computers are starting to have a little bit of ability to do that kind of facial recognition, but it's not quite there yet and it's not fast enough to equip a tutor with. And so the other challenge that those systems are really going to face is processing the full range of information that we humans can process or reading the student, understanding that, understanding a little bit about their background and the context in which they're working. So I think those are the two main challenges that they'll need to overcome. Okay. So, thank you again, Jason for peppering me with questions on my own topic. Absolutely David, anything for you, you know that. [LAUGH] [LAUGH] And thank you all. Learning management systems are tools or collections of tools that are meant to help teachers and educators with the administration of their classrooms. They take a lot of things that traditionally we may have done in person or done by hand and put them online or put them on a computer in order to make things easier or to help with distrivuted classrooms like the one's here in the LMS program. They might have things like a grade book or a facility for collecting assignments or a workflow for grading assignments. By now, you're very familiar with one particular learning management system, which is T-Square. You've seen T-Square's assignment system, its announcement system, its resources system, its testing quizzes system, maybe. Those are all different tools that are collected together under one management system in order to try and deliver a cohesive classroom environment. Even though we use a lot of tools here, the ultimate goal of learning management systems is to put a lot of things together. Of course, one difficulty with learning management systems is it's easy to approach them from a purely system perspective. It's easy to look at them as software solutions to a software problem. But that actually can be a little bit dangerous. To design good learning management systems, we need to have some understanding of the learning process as well. We need to have some understanding of the pedagogy behind learning management systems. We need to have some understanding of the learning behaviors in which students will engage while they're using our systems. So that's what we'll talk a lot about here. Not only what a learning management system needs to be able to do, but how to design it in such a way that it actually helps the learning process. Many of you are probably already familiar with the idea of MOOCs. MOOCs stand for Massive Open Online Course. MOOCs are courses that are delivered to the masses without scaling up our teaching resources to match the number of students who register. Doesn't matter if 100 students register or 100,000. We still have the same initial resource allocation for that course. A lot of companies nowadays are producing MOOCs. Coursera is producing MOOCs. edX is producing MOOCs. Udacity actually got started producing MOOCs, although has since has pivoted away on a more credentialed approach. There are a lot of interesting constraints that we wrestle with when producing MOOCs. For one thing, many of them are available for free. And when it's available for free, we need to minimize our initial resource investment. So that means we really need to be very clever about how we design our MOOCs. We need to be clever about how we design our video material, so that we're not expending a whole lot of money to produce really excellent lectures or anything like that. We need to be clever about how we design our assessments. Assessments in MOOCs can often be kind of trivial, if they're just based on some little multiple choice questions. How do we design good assessments that don't require us to hire an army of TAs, or an army of graders to evaluate all those assessments? These are all very interesting issues that we face when developing good, massive open online courses. And then really what we're going to focus on in this lesson. How do we develop good video material, good assessments, good grading, good things like that without investing just a lot of money into reaching all these students? I'm here with Siya Raj Purohit who is a program manager here at Udacity, managing the app entrepreneurship degree. Thank you so much for talking to us today Siya. Thanks, David. Good to be here. So, Siya is an experienced online student as well as a manager of online programs. So I wanted to start off by asking you, what are some of the exciting new things that are coming out in online education that some of our students might not yet be aware of? So a year ago, Harvard Business School launched a program called HBX CORE. So what is really interesting about this, is that instead of disrupting, it's core business, which is they took graduate students with an MBA degree. Instead, they're extending the pipeline, by targeting students who are undergraduates, or just before the MBA stage, to teach them critical skills in economics, business analytics and financial accounting. So these are the three classes that HPX offers. And it's a thee month program. It costs about $1,500 to $1,800. And students complete it in cohorts essentially. So each cohort consist of about 600 students. And they go through the program and gain these skills. And then take a final exam at a Pearson Test Center. So it's a pretty interesting experience, and I just completed that, about two months ago. That's very cool. It's interesting that, I think, when online education first got started. And the reason why we have separate modules in this course for online learning and MOOCs, is that when online education really got started a few years ago MOOCs were really all the rage. And it was about these giant open courses and we're just going to put it out there and if we build it, they will come. But I think we're seeing more and more of what you're describing of more closed, somewhat gated programs, that have a monetary cost associated with them and have some kind of credential associated at the end. Yeah. And we see the same thing at Coursera and here at Udacity. Can you comment on the new initiatives and those directions at those companies? So finding that in putting courses together is packaged like this improved attention rates across all companies. So HPX Core has a completion rate of 85%, which is really high for online learning. Maybe because of Harvard's name or maybe because of the giant price tag, but it's really working for these companies. And across MOOCs, the average completion rate used to be between three percent and thirteen percent. And with nano-degrees, specializations by Coursera, and the programs such as HPX Core, they've gone up to between 60 and 80 percent completion rate. Wow. Which is much more, because I guess you get a degree of certification at the end. Coursera specializations are really interesting also. I've looked into the business fundamentals one. The is providing collaboration of Coursera. It consists of four courses and the capstone project in the end. So what I really liked about it was the capstone project was designed with 500 start ups, which was this very cool incubator program. And it was like, an option you need to page 500 start ups, or start a problem your solving. However, what I didn't like about the course was that all the, or the program, was that all the four courses were about big business things. So that's like, about like financial accounting the big company or like business analysis at a big company. And not like the start up kind of problems you're trying to solve. As a start up you have no data, you have nothing to like- Yeah, exactly. No finances, either. So, and it's a bit disconnected there. But I really like where they're going with that, and I think that with Vordan's backing, it may get somewhere. Yeah, University of Maryland has one on that platform that's on entrepreneurship as well. It actually has the exact opposite thing, it covers all about funding and startup issues. And basically, by the time that you're in a company with 15 employees, speculation has nothing to say about you, it's all about getting to that initial point. But why do you think there's such a move right now? I guess you already commented on it. The retention rates are higher with these specializations or nano-degrees, what we do, XSeries on edX. Why do you think the retention goes up when we have those knit together programs as opposed to the individual courses? I guess because each of the programs gives you a goal. HPX is trying to pitch that this is preparing you for business school. And they have a huge pipeline of students who are going to be actually part of business school. Coursera is incentivizing students to go through the Warden specialization. Just to get free Warden application in the end. So those kind of initiatives are helping. And of course you get [INAUDIBLE] in careers. So we're trying to help them get an expense for careers, which is great, too. So I think those goals are great. And also, having a cohort system, of students who are kind of encouraging you, and also holding you liable to complete, really helps, too. Yeah. I think we see a lot of that in the LMS program as well. It's actually built in very many ways around the same model. It's a credential at the end. It's some people who join the same semester, and the semesters are long enough that you kind of have a cohort within the semesters. But I would be willing to bet, and in fact we have evidence that suggests that the courses on their own are, they're nice, but very few people take them if there's not that big credential at the end. There's something about that big external motivator that, yeah, is the reason why people go to traditional college. And it sounds like they are trying to include that in some more online education initiatives, even if it means compromising the massiveness of these issues in the past. So, sometimes I was not very motivated during the HBX Core program, because I have a full time job, this is very difficult thing to do. I think we can all sympathize. Ten to fifteen hours a week gets hard. So what encouraged me during that time was my classmates. I became really good friends with some of them and they would be like, okay come on Siya. The deadline's two days from now. Let's get started [LAUGH] and those kind of things. And also what HPS courted very successfully that I think other platforms are trying to emulate is provided a social factor. So you can hear your classmates' responses and stuff as you go through the course. So, when they ask questions, and then they direct questions to you, it keeps you motivated to answer them. Yeah. So, I think those two components really helped. Yeah, absolutely. Do you have anything last you want to say to our online students from the perspective of either someone producing online education or a consumer of online education? Yes, so it's very difficult to complete courses. Especially when you have other commitments. But I think everyone should find at least one friend in every class that they take to make sure that the buddy system works and everyone goes through these courses together. I think that online education will only work if people get incentivized with those kind of social interactions. So definitely find a friend and get started on that. And as designers of ed tech also. Designing things in such a way, that the people using your product or using your tools, can connect with others and possibly partner with them. Or even design tools that explicitly facilitate that. So many of you might be interested in computer supportive collaborative learning, where you can actually develop tools that make this kind of collaboration at a distance much more easy. I think one thing that's been very empowering to me in this program, is that the online environment kind of creates this 24, seven classroom. And because of that, you always have people you can talk to. And you can always go to the classroom and find someone to chat with. And building tools that can enhance that even more. That could really improve what we do in online education. So thank you so much for talking to us Siya. Thanks David. Thank you all for watching. The proliferation of mobile devices has revolutionized a number of industries, and education is no different. One of the real big strengths in mobile devices is their ubiquity. Most of our students already have these kinds of mobile devices in their pocket right now, with them at all times. And that gives us a real opportunity to create some really interesting learning activities. So, for example, if a student's at a national park or a Civil War battlefield, they can have their mobile device guide them around the battlefield telling them different things that happened at different times, complete with animation and voice-overs. So there's real opportunities to create some really interesting learning experiences. As a new father, I'm very grateful for the use of this technology in this way, because my daughter gets a phone call from Elmo every day, and it just makes her face light up whenever it happens. So I'm very appreciative of the possibility to use educational technology in cahoots with mobile devices. But there are other things to mobile devices as well. There are different features that they have. They're different than anything we've dealt with in the past. They have a GPS. They have a camera. They have motion sensors. And all of these things can be used to create some really interesting educational experiences and different domains. So what we're going to talk about in this class is a lot about how the ubiquity of mobile devices can be leveraged to create unique experiences, but also about how some of those other features can be used in other context as well. So I'm here with Jessica Uelmen who's the program manager for the mobile Nanodegrees here at Udacity. Thank you so much for talking to us today. Yeah, absolutely. Happy to be here. [LAUGH] So first thing I wanted to ask about, was this is an ed-tech class and many of our students might be looking at developing educational technology for mobile devices. So what are some of the unique opportunities that take place on mobile that we don't necessarily have on more traditional computers. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think number one, your phone is always glued to you, right? I mean, when is there an opportunity when you don't have your phone on you? So that also opens the opportunity to learn at any time. So for example, if you're on the train, if you're in a ridiculously long queue, just anywhere that you have time, you can start learning. So I think then thinking of a learning experience to help students learn when they just have the time. At any time instead of at home on the couch making time for it. Mm-hm, so it sounds like mobile technology is great for developing some education applications. I'm guessing it's not a matter of if you build it, they will come and there are some things we can do wrong with it. So what are some of the unique challenges or obstacles to doing good mobile technology for education? Yeah, I think, when I think of it, I think there's two real ones that stick in my mind. For one, there's programming challenges, right. I mean, how do you do complex programming challenges on a phone? And on most mobile devices like the iPhone in particular, you can't compile anything. It's against Apple's terms of service. So how do you teach programming in that regard? And then also how do you make it not so gamey, right? I mean, how do you make people feel like you're not just progressing through a level and it's like Math Blaster or something, right? I mean, how do you make it a substantial learning experience. I think one company that does that very well is Duolingo. I think that then learning a language, it's great, I can fit small chunks in. At any time, learn words, come back and revisit things and it doesn't feel gamey. It feels like I'm actually learning and making progress each time. I imagine language is a particular one where being able to learn on the go is very valuable. Because it's something you use everyday throughout your life. Right. As opposed to programming, you're not usually actually doing programming on a train, you're programming at home But there are other skills we learn that we would actually use in this context. Absolutely. So are there any new trends or new emerging parts of mobile technology that are emerging that will be useful in developing future educational technology? So actually, I think one of the most exciting things is the watch. I mean, so I have an Android watch and it's really surprised me at how useful it's been. If for nothing else, just reminders. Hey, you've got a meeting, or hey, you need to do this. So if for anything else, helping students set those learning habits to really make time for education. Could be a really, really great application moving forward. Yeah, it's very true. I hadn't really thought about that, but that could be very useful for things, like a guided tour of a museum or something like that. It seems almost a silly little difference to have the device be on your wrist or in your pocket. Either way, they're always on you. But just that hands-free and always visible nature of it can really change things. No, absolutely. May be there's even bite-size learning segments that you can get, where all of a sudden, oh, your wrist vibrates. Here's a quick question or learning snippet that you can quickly look at, answer and then move on. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. And by the same token, so when we think about these mobile devices for education, I think we often think about the fact that they have a screen that can show us information. They're web-enabled, it's pretty much it. But they have a lot of other things like cameras and GPS and microphones and things like that. Can those also be used for education some ways? Yeah, absolutely in certain ways. So one of the examples that I first think about is I'm really interested in hardware. I come from an Electrical Engineering background and learning experiences for hardware becomes inherently a lot more challenging. So devices like the camera for example, if you're building a printed circuit board or building a circuit and maybe it's not working properly. And you don't know what's going wrong. It's not like you can send an email to your professor and say, here's a digital version of my printed circuit board or my circuit, what's going wrong? Maybe taking a picture or video and then being able to easily send it. Provides a lot more opportunity for faster feedback and then even assessment at the end of the day. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. So we might have students in this class who are looking at developing their project, their class project using a mobile device. Mm-hm. Do you have any suggestions, just as we sign off for them if they're looking to do that? I think in a lot of ways, keep it simple. I think that comes up a lot. People get entranced by the phone as a medium and tend to want to throw a lot of features and a lot of different things into it. So really get to basics and try not to let feature creep come in so much, so that it becomes this giant app that no one can navigate. [LAUGH] I think that's a big thing and then also just avoid gamification. If you can. It's just such an easy thing to slip into and such an easy thing to not do, right? So to try to avoid that whenever possible. [LAUGH] And now you see why I wanted to talk to Jessica as well. Because as you probably know by now, I am not a particularly big fan of gamification either. Thank you so much for talking to us. Yeah, my pleasure. [LAUGH] Based on the fact that you're all in this class, I'm reasonably sure you're all familiar with online learning, because you're all doing it right now. When most people think about online learning, I think what they think about though, are MOOCs, massive open online courses. MOOCs got very big for a few years there, and they're still very big. And so we're actually going to have an entire separate section on MOOCs. But online learning is more than just MOOCs nowadays. You're all doing online learning, but you're not in the MOOC. This class is not massive, it's large, but it's not massive, and it's not open. You all applied to this program and you were accepted, so it's neither massive nor open. But it's still an online course. What we do here at Udacity nowadays is similar. We no longer do massive open online courses. We do smaller, very large, but still smaller than massive open online courses, programs that are somewhat more gated, that have a cost associated with them and have a credential at the end. And I think programs like Udacity's Nano degrees and the Georgia Tech OMS CS program are really the future of online learning, these more closed and more gated experiences. So what we're going to talk about here, is the different ways that online learning can be done separate from MOOCs. So what are the experiences we can have in online learning that would be difficult or impossible to have on campus? Are there things we can do here that are actually even better than we can do on campus? And there's certain things we can do in person that we can't do online, but how do we make up for them? How do we create an equivalent experience in this online environment to what you might get on campus? I'm here with Tairi Delgado, who's one of the course managers here at. They're the ones who really work one on one with students to help them through projects or help them understand material. I thank you so much for talking to me today. Yeah, thanks for inviting me. So the first thing I wanted to ask you was, many people have this conception that online education is very impersonal. Because we're kind of taking the synchronous in person communication out of it. Do you think online education generally is that impersonal? I think it really is what you make out of it. Personally for me, knowing how a lot of students interact with each other. I see students connect with each other through chat, Facebook, LinkedIn. Getting together in groups. And I think that kind of level of interaction It doesn't have to be impersonal, it could be something very rewarding. You can meet somebody from Dubai or Mexico or China, somebody that you would never have a chance to meet before. And instantly you could have a connection with something that you both have a mutual passion for. When I look at online education, I think in many ways It could be a way to learn things more in a personal way. Because, at least my experience when I was in college was that you would sit in a classroom with 200, 300 people and it's very hard to talk to your professor and get one-on-one advice. I found the most personal experience you can possibly ever have is a small group of people that were your friends that were taking classes together. You could really get the chance to work on the problems are really collaborate with each other. The next best experience I had was, you know very few times but you know, when you had a one on one tutor who really understood what you were struggling with and knew the material very well, and knew how to personalize things for you. I think online education has a benefit of doing both. Because when you're going to these classes you have the opportunity to practice on these quizzes at your own pace, and when you put in your answer, it's not like somebody's just marking whether it's right or wrong. They're actually trying to tell you specific feedback about what's wrong and how to actually fix it. And, you get immediate feedback to work on and practice it more. And I think with the ability of getting groups of people to study together, I think you don't usually have that in all, like, settings. So it's, to be able to have that, I think, you know, can make online education really great. Uh-huh. So it sounds like you're saying that, and correct me if I'm wrong, that there's certain ways that we can do things online that not only break that impersonal nature that people think when they think of online education. But in many ways make it even actually more personable because you've got people talking over the Internet so they can be available all the time. They can leave messages and come back to them later, and as a result it's not bottled into this one hour of lecture time, when we're have a great discussion but now class is over and we have to move on. Or you know press has one hour for office hours a week and you could go to talk to him then, but can't ever interact with them on a regular basis, it sounds like we're really building in a way to interact consistently throughout the experience. Right, actually I'll take it even one step further. I think the traditional model is, like you would go talk to your teacher to get all of the knowledge that you want. But I think in this age, where we're constantly learning new things, and revitalizing our skill sets, sometimes you just need to be able to learn new things. And also facilitate collaboration with a group of small people that you would be working with. So I think this model has changed more from a teacher directed model of presenting lectures, more towards this online content that you can learn. And then if something doesn't quite make sense, you have a group of people that are willing to support you because they're trying to accomplish the same thing. I think that is a powerful motivator, having a group of people that you could interact with and help each other out. Whereas, instead of always going to the teacher, you have a lot more resources to connect with. Yeah, absolutely. I think that's especially the case in our OMS program, and as well as some of the NST nano-degrees. That because they're so flexible, because they're so open, and because they're so cost effective, we attract people we wouldn't attract otherwise. And so, some of the classes I've worked on in the past, we've had experiences where someone in the class is already an expert in their field in something we're talking about, and we can basically say, you know, you don't really need to listen to us about this. You've got so-and-so over there, she's working on a world class project in robotics. Right. And she knows far more about this than we do. And she would never take years off of her career to go get a Masters degree, but if she can do it flexibly like this, she comes and does this, and then she in turn builds the class up even more. Because having her there as a resource, even if she's just a student in the class, is incredible for everybody,so. Yeah, the fact that you bring that up actually cause, we constantly, at least I know for myself like, even though like I've gone through the content I know it pretty well, there's times when you're interacting with students you realize that there's more to learn. And, like you said, every student brings their own perspective. And I think, on top of that, when we're talking about these study groups is that, what we tend to find is that when students explain things to other students they tend to learn content even better. So I think that's one of the actual benefits that normal classroom settings don't really account for. It's like having a lot of time for students to help each other out. Because in the end that's going to be what's going to drive them the most. Yeah, having that classroom that's kind of available 24/7 even though you don't want students to think they're expected to be there 24/7. Having it always available kind of means that things that we usually have to put into the set aside time for lectures, can now just happen organically over a much longer period of time. But the conception that online education is very impersonal doesn't come from nowhere. It came from some courses that are done in a model that makes it very difficult to feel like you're connected. So, in theory, we have some students who are taking this class who will go on to be instructors for online classes, or who will go on to be TAs for other classes at the OMS. What would you recommend to them for when there are teaching classes in the future, making sure to foster the kind of class that could develop this community, this communication between students? Right. I think that's a really good question. So I would take a look at what kind of environment you're trying to set up, and what incentives that gives. So, case in point, I remember when I was back in college, a lot of times it was greater on a curve. And so one thing that we noticed is that a lot of the classes that were graded on curves didn't really a foster a lot of sense of community, because students felt that they competed with each other rather than wanting to help each other out. But in the end it kind of drew back the ability to learn in general. Like, I felt like, because you're so focused on competitive scoring, you're not willing to take the time to really learn from somebody else. And you also want to take a look into like what motivate students, like why are they in the classroom in the first place, like what what passions they have that are driving them to take these classes? Some things that I found when I was going to classes was that incentivizing, collaboration with small groups. Getting students to, from the very beginning, have a voice about who they are and why they are interested in taking this class. Being able to connect with other people, so they can find mutual people in the class they want to interact with. And then from there help them setup some kind of guiding rules that will allow them throughout the course to work with each other. Ohter things that I've noticed is that you know when professors allowed or instructors allowed opportunity for students to kind of play around and venture on their own a little bit, to really learn the material on their own. Really helps a lot for me at least because you're going to want to prescribe a lot of quizzes or homework assignments, and I think in many ways when I had classes that I didn't have to, every week submit like a homework assignment, but rather, take the time to really focus on the problem sets and quizzes and concepts that I felt that I really needed to study with. And then studied with my group, well, people from my study groups allowed me really to thrive. I think sometimes homework could be more, at times, it feels sometimes like you might be just doing more work than actually learning quality material that you feel like you really need to focus on. Homework, I felt, was something that you were supposed to practice on, but in the end it was something that you were graded for. So, like, a lot of times, it didn't really Incentivize people to just play around and just kind of explore a little bit. I mean, obviously, you can't expect somebody to know something the first time around. Like, what is it to do a linear regression or maybe how to add a whole bunch of variables together if you're learning algebra for the first time. Sometimes you just need to practice that and sometimes students are going to know what they should focus on. As long as you give them ideas of how to be self-sufficient learners. So, the last component I would make is that, if you really want to set up a good learning environment, it's not only just collaboration and incentives. But also, how to help students learn to be self-directed learners. Like what are the main ways that people learn, and what kind of incentives perform habit over time that students will want to develop so that they can always learn new concepts? So it sounds like, really, what we need to do is make sure we're leaving room for students to collaborate. We're leaving room for students to learn from failure. And we're leaving room for students to learn how to learn. And those are all things I think are very real to the way we learn in the real world. They don't often, or don't always make it into the classroom where we have a very artificial learning environment. But generally it's very important to look at how people learn naturally when they're not in the classroom environment. Their not given homework, or quizzes, or tests, or anything like that. But they're just out there learning from their experiences and trying to facilitate the same kind of learning in the classroom. Yeah. So thank you so much for chatting with me today and for your insights. Thank you David for inviting me. Yeah, absolutely. And thank y'all. Thanks. So I'm here with Courtney Drake, who's a product manager here at Udacity. So thank you for talking to us today. Absolutely. So the first thing I wanted to ask was that, there's this perception for online education that's very disconnected and impersonal. And does that necessarily have to be the case? I don't think it does. And I would say that's something that we have really focused on. Udacity is the kind of research and our experience with students, that social learning is more effective than not social learning. And so that's something that we have really actually invested in quite a bit, especially this year. I think the challenge with social learning is that you still want to preserve some of the core benefits of online learning, like self-pacing and students' ability to kind of have their learning schedule be flexible around their life schedule. So those kind of butt up against the ability to connect students and have them really build deep connections with each other, when their are not really in a synchronous environment. I think those are some of the challenges. We focus on a couple of different ways of integrating, Interaction, and collaboration into our online learning platform. The first way is through forums. And through forums, we've really focused on, how can we help students help each other, and help them answer each other's questions, and share with each other, and share with a broader community of students. But it turns out that it hasn't really been enough for students to feel like they are in a community. Especially,say, when it's a nano degree community that 500 plus students, it's really hard to feel like I"m connected to those other 499 other students. So we've moved more recently in addition to forums, is small learning communities that we're calling teams. So when students sign up for a nano degree, this is kind of rolling out progressively. They get matched up with a group of ten to 12 other students who they then have a chat room with through the course of their nano degree experience. And what we're hoping will kind of happen through that is they build a personal connection with those other students. And that's kind of their first point of contact if they have a question, is run it by my team members. If we can answer it ourselves awesome, and if not then we're posting to the forums or going to coach support to ask for support from Udacity. And we're hoping that will kind of help with three problems around social learning, one is accountability, is feeling like there are other people who care about my progress, and if I drop off that doesn't just effect me, that effect other people. The other is just a level of engagement. I don't feel like I'm alone. And the third piece is if I'm helping other people and I'm teaching other people, I actually learn more that way. So having those connections where we can kind of have a back and forth chat exchange, can actually deepen what I'm learning if I'm the one who's the helper. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. I think that exactly what you just described is something we try and create in our OMS classes, which we do it on piatza right now at least. And I think we exactly try and create that, is a lot of interaction among students and very frequent interactions, so that I feel like there is a community here, present right now, and if I write something I'm going to get a response. Yeah. Pretty quick and pretty targeted to what I'm talking about. Another interesting thing that happens in the OMS community is that the largest social community around it is actually a student run community. It's run by several students who created the Google Plus community. And I think that creates a lot of interesting ownership. Because it's student run it's not this kind of thing that I'm being handed and being asked to play by your rules. Is there anything we can do when designing online technologies or educational technology in general to kind of allow room for these kind of student driven communities to emerge? Yeah, so when we've experimented with how do we help students create small communities. And when we have just kind of let them have a free for all, we found that they don't, it's like some students start it, and the really driven students will start smaller communities. And it's really awesome when they do that, and we've seen some great interaction. But the norm is not, I'm going to start a community or I'm going to join a community on my own. And so we've actually felt like we've needed to give students more structure to form those communities. That's just why we have facilitated this way of having them join a team from the very beginning. We say, tell us you're availability. We will put you in a team. And then let them go from there. So we felt like we actually needed to create that structure. And I guess we'll see if, how the ownership plays out there. And even when we've experimented with that, saying we're going to actually put you in teams together. We found that, unless one student really steps up into some kind of leadership role, they kind of fall flat. And so, where we've said, okay, how do we scale really solid community interaction if we don't necessarily know who those students are who are going to step up into a leadership role? And so, they actually see it the idea for a guides program, is what we're calling it. Where we're enlisting students who are farther ahead in nano degree programs, who have graduated, to come back and be a guide for our teams. So, they're coming to weekly sessions with those teams. And they're engaging in chat with those teams throughout the week, to really help them foster a sense of community, and get to a point where they're really gelling and can carry themselves forward on their own. So that's something we've just started. It's pretty cool, because it is actually students who are coming back into that fray. And it's actually really nice kind of a motivational piece, to kind of say, look at this other student who is in the same place I was three months ago. And look at all they know. And maybe they even have a job already that I want to get. Eventually. So it's a nice piece of motivation, and it's also a way for us to kind of have feet on the ground, know what's going on. And make sure that those communities are healthy and strong. That actually sounds very similar to what we do in the EOS program, because what you describe is very similar to TAs. When we solicit next semester's TAs from this semester's students. And I think it works really nicely when we have a big group of very, very good students who are passionate about helping. Yeah. Who aren't just, you know, crossing an item of a to-do list, but really enjoy helping out their fellow students. Yeah. Perhaps, one of the most inspiring things about the LMS program is that we see a lot more of those students who want to help each other and want to come back and work on it and contribute to the class. So yeah, it's been very inspiring [INAUDIBLE] work nicely. Yeah. So one thing I've noticed also is that we have a stereotype that online education is impersonal, disconnected. And then, like you just said, that there are ways we can actually compensate for that. Mm-hm. But are there times when the online environment actually makes it even better than it could be in person, do you think? I definitely think that there are times, for sure. And one piece of it is the geographical reach that we get with online learning. Is that we have students who are connecting from all over the world. And that's a really powerful experience for someone who has never done that before. And if you're all in the same place, you don't get that kind of diversity of perspective that you do with a global learning community. So we definitely have that piece. The other piece is that if it's less synchronous and people are running on their own schedules, it means they're kind of available whenever. We've actually leveraged mbile for this with the team feature that we just released where we have mobile chat apps on both iOS and Android. So I've had this happen with my own team which I'm participating in, where I will be at a dinner or something. And I see that my team chats something. And I can just pop back in and answer a question. So they come ubiquitous. Nature of the internet, really helps students connect more frequently with each other than just if we're having a class once a week or something like that. It keeps and keeps the communication flow happening more easily. Yeah, I agree completely. I think one of my experiences being an instructor in this program has been that I can sign onto Piazza that we use for our forums right now, and in five minutes, I can interact with ten different students. Yeah. And come back an hour later and do it again. And in person you really can't have that. Right.. That frequency of interactions. That kind of, that perception is 27 available. Really changes what we can do and how often we can interact. For sure. Well thank you so much. Absolutely. Hope it help. So I'm sitting here with Lauren Castellano, who's a production strategist here at Udacity. She deals a lot with producing material for our online courses. She's going to talk to us a little bit about creating online content. So thank you so much for talking to us today Lauren. You're so welcome. So the first thing I wanted to ask is, any of students who are familiar with other platforms may have noticed it. The production values at Udacity tend to be very high, and I don't mean that solely as a compliment. Because when you produce content more on budget, it's easier to make it available to a large number of people, and when you have a high cost associated with it, it kind of creates a barrier. So why do we invest so much into our course production process? So I really look at it as a long-term investment. You wouldn't put this much time and money in a class we're just going to release to 50 people. So we're seeing, we want to see this through, and see students learn from these classes for years, with edits to update them, but. Another thing we've really done is we're investing the student experience, not just the course itself. So yes we could give our highly qualified instructors a camera and they can just stand in front of a blank screen and talk, but we add a lot to it so that the students can have the best experience. So it takes a lot to have all the different quizzes or just making it a little bit fun. When we were talking about material design and filming with Porsches, you just add some stuff and it makes a better student experience. So it's investing in your student not just the course. Yeah, it sounds like we're kind of taking that opportunity, knowing that instead of just this being presented to 75 students a semester, it's going to be presented to thousands or tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of students to really increase what we do. And do maybe we'd like to always do, but we just don't have the resources to do it, initially. And that's one of the things we tell our professors when we're getting started with our courses is, this is the opportunity to do what you've always dreamed of doing with this course. Because you probably can't get the funding to do it when you're teaching it to 75 students once a year, but if you're teaching it to 300 students three times a year, you can do a lot more. So in your position you deal with a lot of people who have never taught online before. Many of them are experienced teachers in person who are just making the transition to the Internet. Others are subject matter experts who have no teaching experience and they're just experts in some domain that we're interesting in. So, let me ask you first when you're dealing with a teacher professor who has an abundance of in-person teaching experience but has never taught online. What are some of the unique issues you wrestle with in trying to transition them to teaching in this online environment? There a lot of things, one thing that you really have to address early on is the nerves that come with teaching online. That a lot of people don't really want to talk about. But when you teach in a classroom to 30 people, if you kind of mess up explaining something, oh well, shoot your students an email. But when you're recording that and broadcasting that to potentially 100,000 students, it's a little more terrifying. And another thing I see really often is, with the more experienced instructors, is they start to teach for their peers. And, not for their students. Because they have to look good for their peers and people that they're going to see at conferences. And, that can get a little bit dangerous from a students perspective. But one of, I think, the best things that come out of that is that the teachers, the professors will validate their material even more than they would just standing in front of 35 people, because they know it's going to be out there forever. They know their peers are going to be reviewing this too, and they take more pride in that, and, I think, so those nerves can kind of play in our favor, but also against us, when we start to lose the student experience in that. So when they try to teach too high level, and it's like, don't do that. So when we're dealing with that issue and we really want to make professors remember the student experience and not just focus on teaching for their peers. What are some of the things that they can do in this environment that they can't do in the regular classroom, that we need to make them aware of? That's a great topic. Because when you get to teach online, the sky's the limit. You have so many options. And it's really important that you think about, when developing a class, that you think about, what are the good teaching tools or examples that I've used in class. Strictly because I'm constrained within four walls, and how can we expand on that? The sky is the limit when you are teaching online. You can do a million different things, and use really cool teaching examples that you could never use in a classroom. One of my favorite examples is when I got to teach with sea lions and I was teaching about classical and operate conditioning. We got to go to a laboratory, see some sea lions and teach the students that way. And they could see how sea lions were learning husbandry skills. It was really awesome. And I could never bring a sea lion into a university classroom. I've asked, they won't let me. [LAUGH] So you can really stretch the box that way. And it's really important for instructors who have taught the same class for every semester for the last ten years, and they use the same syllabus, to kind of just shred that. I would like to tell our instructors don't just think outside of the box, there is no box. The world is your oyster when it comes to teaching online, so really just getting that creativity out of them, when they're so accustomed to doing the same thing over and over again could be challenging. But it's endlessly important for a student experience. Yeah, I imagine that with many of our professors who have been teaching for so long they're very good at the way they teach right now. But I've encountered some at least that I think have forgotten that certain constraints that they have, and it started as constraints, that now they're just kind of part of the fabric of the course. It's something like I have the topics broken up in a certain way, well you only have the topics broken up like that because you've been forced to teach hour and a half lectures all, for the past 20 years. Now you can have a 15 minute lecture followed by an hour long one. So you have a lot of flexibility there. But what about for those incoming instructors who have no teaching experience whatsoever. They're subject matter experts at Google or Facebook or something and, they don't know what it's like to teach at all, but they're experts in their field. How do we help them get accustomed to this? So, one thing that's great about the subject matter experts is they've never started within that box. So, they are really good with the creativity and just expanding on different ideas in giving the practical application of what they're teaching. One of the things that we have to remind them to do is anticipate student's questions. And they don't have experience with students in a classroom, raising their hand saying, wait, I don't understand that point. So as course developers, we try to highlight different areas. And you see expert blind spot a lot with subject matter experts. When you don't as much with professors because they're used to students saying no, that doesn't make sense. So teaching them about expert blind spot and saying okay, you're using jargon there that your intro students are not going to understand. And they're in environments where they don't have to think about that kind of stuff, which is great for them. But it's important for the students that they don't do that anymore when they're teaching. So, Lauren is an expert at producing online content and as a result, she may be using jargon that some of you aren't familiar with. [LAUGH] So, Lauren, can you tell our students what expert blind spot is? Shame on me. Well so expert blind spot is when you have an expert in a field and they use jargon or explain the topic and forget that some people might not know the foundation that the expert has. So you have to take yourself back a few steps and figure out what it is that you just assume people know and what it is people actually do know. So we try to have people lose their expert blind spot, by not having an assumption of the knowledge a student has coming in. We actually need to go in, and explore what their base knowledge is. I have a very fond memories of my freshman calculus class being taught by a Nobel Prize nominated physicist. Fun. Who had no idea what it was like to not know how to do a derivative. And so yeah, I think that's- Yeah. A very important thing to wrestle with. And because we deal with so many subject matter experts here at Udacity, it's even more pertinent, because they have no teaching experience. All they know is their field. Yeah. But I think you're right, it's also a great chance to have that kind of blank slate to work with someone who hasn't developed any bad habits or hasn't really incorporate those constraints of the classroom into their outlook on teaching. Exactly. So in this classroom we might have many people who produce online content for this class or might go into teaching online in the future. In fact, that's one of the project ideas for this class is to actually film a mini-course for some topic you're interested in. So for those who might want to do that for this class or in the future, what advice would you give them on getting started with online teaching? I would say to really reflect on your past teachers. Pick and choose what things that they would do that you really, really liked, and really dissect that. Were they good teachers because of the context they were teaching in, so were they great in a classroom, or do you think what they were doing would translate really well to online, and how can you expand on that? Just shred every syllabus you've ever seen and really start from scratch. Do the whole, think way outside of the box. That there just is no more box, and be creative. Start out with the most outlandish ideas, and then reel it in based on your production constraints. That way, you know, you'll at least have a fun class at the end. Another thing is to be a really honest consumer. You know, how long is it and when you're watching this video until you want to speed me up or skip to the next video? And then try to reflect on that and make a class that you would actually want to watch. Sometimes sitting through a 20 minute screen cast or head shot is not how you want to do it. Most students would just fast forward or be done with it. So reflect on that and think about the content you're making and make sure that you're picking the right medium. Some things are just better if people read them. If you could create a PDF that they should reflect on then come back to video or discussion forum. I don't know if you'll have that or not, but look at your content and then pick the best medium to teach that, teach that content by. So is it video? Is it a screen cast of something? Is it a reading node? Which we call a reading node, but I guess in your case you'd probably be creating a PDF, but something like that. I think the most important thing is being the honest student. Think about things from a student's perspective. Yeah, I know that we've probably given you some examples of some courses out there that we consider to be high quality. We have not given you any examples of courses that we don't consider to be high quality because we don't want that attached to us, but feel free to ask your fellow classmates on the forums for examples of online courses they've taken that were not good. And they might recommend some courses from other platforms. They might recommend some Udacity courses. They might recommend some Georgia Tech courses. But that will give you something to actually learn from, and see not only what to do but what not to do. So, thank you so much Lauren for talking to us today. You're so welcome, yeah. And thank y'all for watching. So for talking about online education, I can think of few people more interesting and qualified to talk about than Dr. Sebastian Thrun. So thank you so much for talking to us for a few minutes today. It's a pleasure. So the first thing I wanted to ask is Udacity's mission is democratizing education. For those students that we have that aren't too familiar with what that means, can you give a rundown of what that means in practice? Well, I would say today we live in a world that good education is extremely locked up and inaccessible. It's expensive. It's hard to get in. And it's not geographically distributed, which means the institutions aren't in Africa or places like these. Democratization means everybody should have access. We should have access to clean drinking water, to security, and to good education. I think education is fundamental in giving people a chance to play in this world. I think that's very, very relevant to what we do in the LMS program, as you know, because it's so low cost, it's so flexible, so distributed that we have people, especially people in this class who could never take a class or do a program like this, traditionally, because they can't take a couple years off work or they can't, pay six figures just to get a Master's degree. And one fo the reasons, especially since this is an educational technology class, is technology a necessary part of that? Does it enable us to do something now that we couldn't do before or are we just the only ones who are finally coming around and say let's do this? Absolutely. It's a necessary but not a sufficient component. I don't think alone will be a education. But I think we live in a world with the knowledge that we have now more better devices. We have ability to record video, to do interactive things like video games. And those ought to play a role. We've done this quite a bit and we're exploring what's the best way to deliver education. And to have interaction with students and foster interactions but technology plays a huge part in this. Is technology mostly about getting the access to the education, or is there other things that technology does for us that we couldn't do in the past? Every time you move to a different medium I think everything changes. So the way we do lectures today, a single professor speaking to many, many students Is because the technology they're using is a natural human voice. As we change this into a more recorded technology and digital technology, we can really change the entire idea of lectures. We don't need lectures anymore. We can do it much more interactive, it turns out. In technology, you can actually make class as much fun as a video game. And a video game is clearly enough to select to us. A student can do something to exercise their own skills. I would like to think that that kind of technology is something what allows this class to happen. It allows us to have the kind of communication between instructors and TAs and students that we really can't have in person where everything is very guarded in terms of how much time you have to give to it. So we have a lot of people in the class and I bet that there are some out there who are wondering do I want to go into research or do I want to go into business? And the class project we have for this class is very much built around either doing something that could become a research project or doing something that could become a start up or a tool that we use in the program. You're one of the only people I know that succeeded in both realms. So do you have any thoughts for anyone who might be struggling with whether they want to go the research route or the business route? I wouldn't struggle about research versus business. I think it's kind of very much the same, to be honest. I would struggle about impact and about willingness to experiment and to learn. I think so much has not been discovered yet. I think we would look back a hundred years from now and ask what did we [INAUDIBLE] at the time, we probably concluded was probably gutsy to do what we're doing. But it wasn't that good. It think it's going to get much better. And it's going to get much better by you students doing great experiments and trying things out even non-conventional things. And if you're able to make a dent in people's ability to learn using digital technology, and do it in a way that it's, financially viable. Doesn't require having a thousand professors sit there and watch your hand. Then you might turn to research paper or you might also turn to start up company. Or you might join Udacity and work with us to make the world a better place. Sounds fantastic to me. That's really guiding principle behind why we started this class. So, do you have any final thoughts for students taking a masters level educational technology class? I think the key thing is really experimentation. I have this very deep belief in my heart that we can make the world a better place by democratizing education and that with fire-stick technology. Otherwise we couldn't afford doing it. And what you can do as students, the students in your class can do, is to really kind of do crazy things. Do something that looks like it's going to fail. Do something that's audacious. Do something that is really out of the world no one has tried before. Go to Twitter, go to Facebook. Make something crazy happen. And make it happen in a short amount of time so you don't waste too much of your own time. And look at the data coming back. I think there is a lot of surprises in there. You can discover a lot of good stuff. And when you find something great come back to us and send us the application. We'd love to hire you. Sounds great. Well thank you again so much for talking with us and yeah, thank you. Pleasure. There are a lot of subjects that students learn about from kindergarten all the way through college, that we could teach in some really interesting ways. So for example, let's imagine you doing a unit on the Amazonian rainforest in biology class. One way you could teach that material is by piling all your students on to an airplane. Flying them down to the Amazonian rainforest and letting them actually learn about it by catching animals, dissecting them, watching them in their natural habitat, learning about them that way. It would be really interesting and really authentic, and really engaging, and completely unfeasible. We can't load student onto airplanes like that and fly them down to a dangerous area just to learn about how the rainforest works. But what we can do is bring them that experience to their computers through something like Amazon Trail, which is a game or a simulation you all might be familiar with. So what we can do is we can use computers to construct simulations of the kinds of environments or experiences we want students to have and let them engage with it that way. This can be powerful in another on a number of different ways. It's very authentic. It lets them see not only the content we want them to learn but also potentially how people researching that content actually work in their day to day life. Lets them see what is it like to actually research biology down in the Amazon? Or what is it like to capture marine animals and investigate them as a marine biologist? It's also powerful because it can be very empowering to let students explore things on their own. They kind of get to drive their own learning and drive their investigation which aligns very nicely with some other things we've talked about so far in this class. So, simulation-based learning is a great way to bring authentic and engaging learning experiences to students through the power of their computers. So, in this morsel, we're going to talk about how we can build simulations that are engaging and authentic for the material we want to teach the students. So if you've seen any of the other interviews that I've done here at Udacity, you'll notice that I'm now sitting in the other chair. And that's because today we're talking about a topic that was part of my dissertation research, which is Exploratory Learning Environments. So Jason has agreed to give me my questions, and interview me on the topic. So thank you. [SOUND] Absolutely, anything for you David. I think I've said that before in another video. So what makes exploratory learning environments so powerful in education? So the reason I really like exploratory learning environments in education is that they let us build circumstances, or build situations, or build opportunities for students that are pretty hard to have in a real classroom. Also in my dissertation research we did in the context of middle school ecology. And doing scientific inquiry and scientific modeling in that domain, and when you're really doing inquiry in ecology. You're usually doing things that take months or years to gather the data on, you build models that cover decades of time, or our current climate change models are covering centuries or millennia in time, it get's the projections out that far. And our students in the classroom, they have 45 minutes or maybe two weeks for a unit. They don't have time to sit around gathering 12 months of data or 24 months of data or anything like that. The real power of exploratory learning environments is it lets us take those very real, very authentic opportunities from the real word, take away some of the constraints, or the obstacles to using them in the classroom and strip them down to only those things that are useful for the learning. So, in our research we had students simulate what would happen to a particular ecological system over a very large time scale. Under different initial circumstances. So if the system started like this, what would it look like ten years from now? If it started like this, what would it work ten years from now? In person, we can't model a system for ten years for a middle school class project. Right. Of course. But we want them to get that experience of what it's like to authentically investigate that problem. And so the real power in exploratory learning environments is to open up those opportunities. But more than just opening up those opportunities as well, the real, the meat of them is also how they give students ownership over that process. So they're called exploratory because the student is exploring. The student is driving what they're doing. The student is going in and saying I think want to research this today, or I want to go explore this area, depending on the the nature of the environment. Right. And so it's not something that we're telling them you have to do this, and then this, and then this. And here's your assignment, and here's your reading for the day. They get to take charge. And that builds a lot of ownership, a lot of engagement in it. Experience or constructing is personal. And it's different for everybody. Right. And so that's why I love using them in that, because it teaches students the skills they need to actually survive in their eventual real world. That when you're on the job, hopefully you don't have someone holding your hand and giving you your to do list for the day. [LAUGH] You might. But, hopefully, you don't. You're given some free reign, and you're trusted to go forward with it. And so exploratory learning environments are a way of opening up those opportunities, those experiences to students earlier in their education. Sounds like it's going to build a lot of confidence for those students. I hope so, yeah. Actually in our experience in that class it did, we had a couple students who didn't consider themselves very good in science. Right. But it was when they were told, you have the power to question certain accepted truths. Based on the evidence that you gather, that it gave them this idea that, I don't have to necessarily be a scientist to do research. You need to become one eventually to do it in the real world, but the idea that beliefs and theories are constructed based on evidence, and you have the power to gather evidence. That's a really powerful idea for students to have that early in their science education. Absolutely. When designing a learning environment, what is important to keep in mind? So for me, the main thing to keep in mind when designing these environments, is to preserve the authenticity of whatever problem you're mimicking. I say that because there's a very strong tendency among some who would design some environments like this to really gamify it. And I have a strong opposition to gamifying just because it creates, creates some nice motivation, but it's motivation that isn't rooted in the material. Right. And so, we can have an exploratory learning environment where, for example, you're gathering evidence to explain why certain species went extinct. Mm-hm. And every time you find a piece of evidence you get 10 points. And that's not very often think about it. Right. You're basically just looking around finding clues. What we really want to do when we're creating these exploratory learning environments, is preserve the authenticity of whatever activity we're mimicking out in the real world. If scientist use simulations for example, we want to our students to use the same kind of simulations that scientist use. Right. We want them to derive value from it based on what predictions they can make. Not whether or not they achieved an objective or got an achievement, or got a trophy or something like that. Right. So I think it's really important to preserve what it is you want to teach in that environment. And make sure it's what you want to teach that's actually the motivating part of engaging with that environment. So you're talking about focusing on the learning goals as opposed to the gamification of the.- Right, exactly. All right, very good. We talked a lot about learning environments in the middle school. I'm wondering what sort of application for high school or the collegiate level exists. So you're right. I think most often we see explored to our learning environments used in lower and middle school. And part of the reason is that they, they make things very engaging. They are very visually attracted, they are very interactive, they're very interesting to look at. Right. And so I think that's one of the reasons we see them a lot at the earlier ages. But I think they have a very strong place later in life, that the constraints that we deal with at the lower and middle school levels don't go away when we're in college. We're dealing with the same kind of things of when we're learning about ecology, we're learning about systems and we're learning about systems that take place over a very long period of time. I think the difference is that the authenticity actually comes out. Even more strongly than when we're doing it later in our college career so we don't need to dress up as much. We don't need to make it as colorful. We can actually just sometimes give students the tools that real people use. And this is especially, I think the case, in computer science education. The IDEs in many ways are exploratory learning environments. You're exploring the API. Right. You're exploring the different results of different programs and things like that. So, I think it definitely has a place later in the educational career. But I think Jason's right that, I think that exploratory learning environments are most often used at the lower middle school levels. And if your interested in working with lower middle school students, or even maybe some high school students, I think it's a really, really nice domain to explore. It lead's itself to some really fun projects, and some really interesting projects that can really motivate students. But I also encourage you to think about some of the ways we could use the same kind of principles in later education. So, thank you for chatting with me about this. Of course Kevin. Chances are you probably have a Facebook account. You might have a Twitter account. You might have a LinkedIn. You probably have several accounts spread across several different social networking sites and you use them for a lot of different purposes. You might use one to keep up with family and friends. You might use one for job networking or when to find new media to consume. More and more people are actually using social networking in education as well. There are teachers in middle and high school that are using Facebook in their classroom or using Facebook to extend their classroom. They figure, if my students are on Facebook every evening anyway, why don't I give them assignment notifications there? Why would I host my discussions on there? Why don't I meet my students where they are and try and bring the educational experience to them, as opposed to convincing them to come get it from me. But there are others that suggest that this isn't the best approach. That by trying to integrate education with something like Facebook, we're watering down education, or we're trying too hard to make education artificially cool and really, we're losing some of the real value in education. So these are some of the issues that we're going to wrestle with in this lesson. We're going to talk about whether or not education and social networking should actually be integrating this way. Should we try and use Facebook for education? Should we try and use Twitter for education? Or can we actually build new tools or build new communities that blur the line between social networking and education, while also preserving some of that sanctity or some of that rigor to that educational environment. Things like EdModo that are custom built for education but also have a lot of social networking type features in them. So, we'll talk about these different tools and these different questions that are available in the community during this lesson.